Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
a/a/A/23279                                   
Report No. P-5438-VE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
AND ON
OTHER MEASURES TO SUPPORT
THE DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAM
OF THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
NOVEMBER 28, 1990
This document has a restricted distributon and may be osed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Bolivar (Bs)
US$1   Bs 50
(as of November 1990)
ABBREVIATIONS
CBV       -          Central Bank of Venezuela
DDSR      -          Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EFF       -          Extended Financing Facility
FLIRBs    -          Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds
FSAL      -          Fir.ancial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOV       -          Government of Venezuela
ISL       -          Interest Support Loan
JEXIM     -          Japan Export-Import Bank
PERL      -          Public Enterprise Reform Loan
SAL       -          Structural Adjustment Loan
TPL       -          Trade Policy Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
I.   INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . .................1
II.  VENEZUELA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
A.  Background. . . . . . . . . . . . ..   .      .  .  . .   .  .  2
B.  The On-Going Adjustment Program and Economic Performance. . 4
C.  The Medium-Term Macroeconomic and Policy Framework. . . . . 7
D.  Conclusion Regarding Eligibility for Bank Support . . . . . 8
III. VENEZUELA'S 1990FINANCINGPLAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .8
A.  Overview of the Pla-a. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
B.  Description of the Instruments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
C.  Other Provisione of the Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
D.  Responses of the Commercial Bank Creditors. . . . . . . . .13
E. Estimated Cost of Collateral. . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .14
F. Estimated Financial Support for the Plan. .  .    . . . . . . .15
G.  Timetable for Implementation of the Plan. . . . . . . . . .16
IV.  EVALUATION OF THE FINANCING PLAN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
A.  Financial Analysis of the Instruments in the Plan. . . . . 17
B. Aggregate Impacts on Venezuela's Cash Flows. . . . . . . . 19
C.  Direct and Indirect Effects on Medium-term Economic
Prospects.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .23
D.  Creditworthiness and Risk Management Considerations. . . . 25
E. Summary and Conclusions on tne Evaluation of the Plan. . . 26
V.   PROPOSED BANK SUPPORT FOR THE PLAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
A. Set Aside Funds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
B.  Interest Support Loan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
C. Waivers of Negative Pledge Clauses. . . . . . . . . . . . .29
D. Burden Sharing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
E.  Benefits and Risks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
VI.  COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS. . . . . . . . 31
A.  History of Bank Assistance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
B.  Bank Operational Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
C.  Sectoral Composition of Planned Bank Lending. . . . . . . .33
D.  IFC Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
E. Collaboration vith theIMF. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
VII  SUMMARY AND RECOMMEIOND..N            DN ...............34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
Table 111.1t  Sumary of Instruments of the Plan
Table 111.2s   Distribution of Eligible Debt Among Instruments
Table 111.3s   Estimated Cost of Collateral
Table 111.4s   Ee>±sated Support from Official Institutions
Table IV.1:    Financial Evaluation of Collateralized Instruments
Table IV.2a:   Cbh Plow Implications of 1990 Financing Plan
(Assuming Contractual Amortization)
Table IV.2bs   Cash Flow Implications of 1990 Financing Plan
(Assuming Rescheduled Amortization)
Table V.1:     Approved Loans Including Set Aside Funds
Table V.2:     Estimat-4 Funds and Shares in Support of the Plan
ANS
Annex 1:       The Structure of Venezuela's External Debt
Annex 2:       Balance of Payments and National Accounts (1979-89)
Annex 3:       Cash Flow Projections Under the Plan
Annex 4:       Venezuela: Medium-Term Projections under Alternative
Oil Scenarios
Annex 5:       Interest Support Loan-Supplemental Data Sheet
Annex 6:       Status of Bank Operations in Venezuela



VENEUlU,.
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAi 
Borrowers        Republic of Venezuela
Amounts          US$150 million equivalent
Terms:           15 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Descrintion:     The proposed loan and related measures would support
Venezuela's 1990 Financing Plan under which Venezuela's
commercial bank creditors will exchange eligible debt for new
instruments involving debt and debt service reduction and
will provide new money. In support of the Plan, the Bank
would provide: (a) an Interest Support Loan of US$150m
equivalent to finance interest collateral required for Par
Bonds to be issued under the Plan; (b) up to US$285m
equivalent in set-aside funds from approved adjustment loans
to finance principal and interest collateral required for
Discount Bonds to be issued under the Plan; and (c) waiver of
the negative pledge restriction in Bank loan agreements with
the Republic of Venezuela up to an amount equivalent to
US$2,000m for collateral provided for bonds issued under the
1990 Financing Plan.
Benefits and
Xiskst          The proposed loan and related measures would help achieve a
debt relief of 20S, measured as the reduction in the
discounted value of debt service to creditor banks as a
percentage of the face value of the original debt to these
banks of US$19.5b. This would materially inprove Venezuela's
medium-term development prospects by reducing and
restructuring external payments, placing its relationship
with the international financial community on a firm basis,
and contributing to confidence in the sustainability of its
external balance and growth-oriented adjustment program.
Venezuela's economic program faces the risk of highly
variable oil revenues, and adverse developments in the oil
sector could threaten its external balance. To help offset
these risks, Venezuela plans to build up substantial
international reserves during periods of favorable oil
revenues. Given its very low exposure to Venezuela, the risk
to the Bank from the proposed loan and re:ated measures is
very low.



- ii -
Disbursement.:   The proposed loan, and the set aside funds, would be
disbursed for the purpose of acquiring collateral required
for the Par Bonds and the Discount Bonds, respectively.
Special
Provisi4n:      The Interest Support Loan would include a contingent
prepayment provision under which the loan would be fully
prepaid if the average crude oil price (West Texas
Intermediate) during the twelve-month period starting
December 18, 1990, exceeds US$23 per barzel.
Rate of Return: The real internal rate of return on the financial resources
invested in collateral, based on the savings in payments to
comercial bank creditors, would be 352.
Avoraisal
Re_ort:         Not applicable.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
INTEREST SUPPORT LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
AND ON OTHER MEASURES TO SUPPORT THE DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAM
OF THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
1.       I submlt the following report and recommendation for proposed
measures to support the Debt and Debt Service Reduction components of the 1990
Finan¢ing Plan of the Republic of Venezuela (the Republic). The proposed Bank
measures would include the following elements:
(a) Approval of an Interest Support Loan to the Republic for the
equivalent of US$150 milllon for financlng collateral in respect of
lnterest payments on Par Bonds to be issued by the Republic;
(b) Release of set aside funds of up to US$285 milllon, consisting of
funds under the Structural Adjustment Loan, the Public Enterprise
Reform Loan, the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, and/or the Trade
Policy Loan, all of which have been approved by the Executive
Directors, for financing collateral for Discount Bonds to be issued
by the Republic;
(c) Waiver of the negative pledge restriction in loan agreements between
the Republic and the Bank to permit a pledge of up to US$2.0 billion
equivalent by the Government of Venezuela as collateral for principal
and interest payments on Par Bonds, Discount Bonds, and Front-Loaded
interest Reduction Bonds to be issued by the Republic under the 1990
Financing Plan.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
2.       On March 20, 1990, the Government of Venezuela (GOV) and its Bank
Advisory Committee announced an agreement in principle on the basic terms of a
menu of options for new money and debt and debt service reduction.Y   A
description and preliminary evaluation of the proposed financing program was
presented to the Executive Directors in the "Briefing Note on the Proposed
Program for Debt and Debt Service Reduction for Venezuela" dated May 31, 1990
(SecM90-709) ("the Briefing Note"). On June 25, the GOV and its Bank Advisory
Committee finallzed and distributed to Venezuela's commercial bank creditors
the Term Sheet for this "1990 Financing Plan" ("the Plan"). Further
developments were reported in the President's Memorandum to the Executive
Directors entitled "Venezuela: Debt and Debt Service Reduction Operation--
Request for Negative Pledge Waivers in Relation to the Issuance of
1  A statement to the Executive Directors on this agreement was made
immediately after the announcement on March 20, 1990, and subsequently
distributed to the Executive Directors (SecM90-359, March 21, 1990).



- 2 -
Collateralized Short-Term Notes" (R90-197, October 11, 1990). By Vovembet 1,
banks holding over 992 of the Eligible Debt had comnitted to exchange that
debt for one or more of the instruments in the Plan. In order to finance the
collateral required by several of the instruments of the Plan, GOV has
requested the use of resources from the World Bank consistent with the Bank's
guidelines for the support of debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) programs.
3.       This Report evaluates Venezuela's adjustment program, describes and
evaluates the Plan, and makes recommendations on Bank support for the Plan.
Part II presents relevant background to recent develepments, sumnarizee
Venezuela's on-going adjustment program, and considers Venezuela's eligibility
for Bank support for a DDSR program. Part III describes the details of the
Plan and its various instruments, the allocation of Eligible Debt among those
instruments, the estimated cost of collateral, and the estimated official
resources available to help finance that collateral. Part IV evaluates the
Plan in terms of the efficiency of the individual instruments, the cash flow
savings provided to Venezuela, the likely impact of the program on Venezuela"s
medium-term development prospects, and the implications for Venezuela's
creditworthiness and for Bank risk management. The proposed Bank support for
the Plan is presented in Part V, and the strategy of Bank operations in
Venezuela, in Part VI. The concluding part of the report summarizes the
recommendations on the use of Bank resources and on granting limited waivers
of the negative pledge provisions in Bank loan agreements with Venezuela.
PART II - VENEZUELA'S ADJUSTNENT PROGRAM
A.   Backaround
4.       Crisis in External Balance: 1986-88.  The collapse of oil prices in
1986 (from an average Venezuelan export price of $25.7 per barrel in 1985 to
$13.6/bbl in 1986) precipitated a crisis in Venezuela's external balance.
Even before that collapse in the price of its major export, Venezuela had had
difficulty in carrying the burden of external debt accumulated during the
previous decade. Given the slow but significant decline in oil export
earnings since 1982, the ratio of debt service payments to exports had grown
to about 35Z in 1985. As shown in Annex 1, most of Venezuela's external debt
is held by commercial banks. In order to alleviate its debt burden, in
February 1986, Venezuela negotiated a multi-year restructuring agreement with
its commercial bank creditors. However, the magnitude of the current account
deficit in 1986 (4.6t of GDP) and the sharp decline in gross international
reserves during that year (from US$8.1 billion to US$4.3 billion) made it
necessary in September 1987 to amend that restructuring agreement in order to
spread amortization payments over a longer period. Nonetheless, during 1987
and 1988, given only a modest recovery of oil exports and GOV's inadequate
policies at that time, the external balance deteriorated further. The ratio
of debt service to exports rose to 39X in 1988, and, by the end of 1988 gross
liquid operating reserves had fallen to US$2.0 billion (about 1.6 months of
imports of GNPS). Overall macroeconomic developments over the past decade are
presented in Annex 2.



- 3 -
5.       The Perez Administration's Initlal Proaram.   When the newly-elected
adtinistration of President Carlos Andres Perez took office in February 1989,
it i4medately initiated a program to achieve a viable external balance and to
put Venezuela back on a path of sustainable growth. Prom the outset, the
program envisioned three integral components:  first, and most importantly,
economic policy reforms to correct the external and internal imbalances and
create a policy environment for sustainable growth; second, financial support
from the international financial institutions; and third, an agreement with
its commercial bank creditors to reduce Venezuela's external debt burden over
the medium-term.
6.       The broad purposes of the new government's program of policy reform
have been to decrease direct government intervention in the allocation of
resources, increase the role of market forces, and thereby improve
productivity.  The initial program implemented during February and Marc=1 1989
included the followings replacling the multiple fixed exchange rate system by
a unified, market-determined system (under which the bolivar limnediately
depreciated to about Be 36lUS$ compared to the previous official rate of Bs
14.5/US$); allowing most interest rates to be determined by market forces;
rationalizing and liberalizing the trade regime by reducing the coverage of
quantitative restrictions and setting a maximum tariff rate of 802; increasing
the domestic prices of petroleum products and for most public utilities; and
curtailing fiscal expenditures.
7.       Initial IPI Support.  The international financial institutions
responded quickly to support the Administration's strong adjustment program.
In March 1989 the IMF approved a First Credit Tranche purchase of SDR 343
million and in June 1989, a three-year Extended Financing Facility (EPP) of
SDR 3.7 billion (about US$4.8 billion). Also in June 1989 the World Bank
approved a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) for US$402m and a Trade Policy
Loan (TPL) for US$353m Because both institutions recognized that Venezuela
would need to renegotiate its debt to commercial bank creditors in order to
ensutre adequate provision of external resources to support recovery over the
medium-term, the EPF as well as the Bank's two adjustment loans made provision
for the possible use of set aside funds in support of a debt reduction program
with com -.cial bank creditors.
8.       NeRotiations with the Commercial Banks.  Having initiated its
adjustment program and obtained substantial support from the IPIs, GOV in July
1989 presented a proposal to its Bank Advisory Committee for a program of new
money and debt and debt service reduction (DDSR). The DDSR component was
included because preliminary discussions with the banks had indicated that
they were not prepared to provide sufficient new money to close the estimated
financing gap over the medium-term, which at that time was estimated to be on
the order of US$1.2 billion annually. During this period GOV rolled over its
amortization payments to the banks and went into arrears on interest payments.
Initial progress in the negotiations was slow. In November 1989 the Committee
made a counterproposal, and intensive negotiations during the subsequent
months led to an agreement in principle in March 1990 on a menu of options
that would comprise a voluntary, market-oriented program. Subsequent to this
agreement in principle, Venezuela cleared its interest payment arrears to the



- 4 -
banks. The details of each instrument and full definition of the "1990
Financing Plan"--as described fully in Part III of this Report--were finalized
on June 25, 1990, at which time the commercial bank creditors were s4ced to
make commaitments to participate In one or more of the options included in the
Plan.
B. The On-Going Adjustment Program and Economic Performance
9.       Develonmens durinat 1989.  The economic program initiated in February
1989 succeeded in reducing external and internal imbalances in less than a
year, although at the cost of a steep recession. The deficit of the
consolidated, non-financial public sector declined from 9.42 of GDP in 1988 to
1.32 in 1989. The current account balance shifted from a deficit of 9.62 of
GDP in 1988 to a surplus of 5.72 in 1989. The surplus was the result of a 252
increase in oil prices, a surge of over 52: in non-oil exports, and a 422
decline in imports (due to depreciation of the bolivar and the decline in non-
oil GDP).  Gross international reserves increased over 12S from the very low  c
level at end-1988. However, during 1989, total GDP declined by 9.22, non-oil
GDP by 10.32, and gross investment by 522. The unexpectedly sharp recession
was due to: (a) the 1682 reduction in inventories, which had been built up
significantly in 1987-88 in anticipation of devaluation and decontrol of
prices; (b) overshooting the fiscal target due in part to delays in
Congressional approval of the public investment program and in recognition of
exchange losses arising from exchange rate guarantees on letters of credit
under the old multiple exchange rate system; and (c) the sluggish response of
private sector investment to the new policy environment.
10.      Policy Reforms during 1990.  Throughout 1990 the Government of
Venezuela has continued to pursue its economic reform program which is
designed to create an incentive structure for efficient investment and growth.
In January a new regulation governing foreign investment was approved: this
regulation eliminates 11 restrictions on remittances of profits and dividends
and opens virtually all sectors to foreign investors. Furthermore,
legislation has been proposed to reduce corporate taxation and eliminate the
additional tax on profits remitted abroad. In February and again in July the
subsidy on domestic sales of fertilizers was reduced. In March GOV announced
the second phase of its trade liberalization program, reducing the maximum
tariff to 502 and reducing the coverage of quantitative restrictions to 102 of
manufactured output. The export bonus for manufactured goods was reduced in
March from 302 to 152 and again in August to 52. In April the Central Bank of
Venezuela (CBV) set the legally-mandated ceiling and floor rates on commercial
bank loans to 602 and 102 to ensure that they would not encumber market-
determination of interest rates. The CBV also adopted new guidelines to
increase the interest rates charged by public development funds toward market
levels. In June domestic prices of selected petroleum products, which have
been far below international levels, were Increased very sharply (e.g., prices
of jet fuel and fuel oil were increased 7132 and 2752 respectively), and then
in July a program of monthly increases was started under which gasoline prices
will increase 33Z and diesel prices, 257Z by the end of the year. Also in
June GOV extended its trade liberalization program to the agricultural sector
by significantly reducing quantitative restrictions on agricultural imports.



- 5 -
The Government has also moved forward in its ambitious plans for restructuring
and privatizing public enterprises. Eleven major public enterprises have been
selected for restructuring; early priority is being given to the port, water
and electric power companies. An Interministerial Committee has approved
about 100 firms for privatization, Including the national airlines. In June
1990 the Bank approved a PuLlic Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL) of US$350m to
support these programs. And GOV has initiated a far-reaching program of
financial sector reform which will both complete the liberalization of
financial markets and increase prudential regulation. The Bank is supporting
this program through the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) also approved
in June 19%0.
11.      Sconomic Performance Durina 1990.  Preliminary data indicate that the
economy has slowly started to recover in 1990. Value added in manufacturing,
construction, and commerce and transport were respectively 10.7%, 4.4%, and
6.6% higher in the second quarter of 1990 than in the previous six months.
Non-oil exports during the first six months of 1990 were 72% higher than
during the first half of 1589. Monthly import figures are recovering from the
extremely depressed levels of 1989. For the first half of the year, before
the effect of higher oil prices, the current account ran a surplus of US$2.9
billion.
12.      Fiscal Performance Durina 1990.  Despite the continuing progress in
policy reform and the evidence of weak economic recovery, the fiscal
performance during 1990 has been weaker than previously expected. By July it
became clear that the fiscal deficit was larger than originally envisioned
under the IMF's EFF program. This was due primarily to several factors: (a)
lower-than-predicted non-oil revenues due to the severity of the recession;
(b) delay in implementing the increases in petroleum product prices; and (c) a
reduction in the program target level to reflect the higher-than-predicted oil
revenues during the first quarter of the year. Hence, during the first half
of 1990, the fiscal deficit was running at an annual rate of about 4% compared
to original expectations of close to balance. As a result of this lagging
fiscal performance, purchases under the EFF associated with the performance
targets for March 31 and June 30 were delayed pending specification of the
second year program to ensure that improved fiscal discipline could be
achieved in the latter half of 1990 and in 1991.
13.      Impact of the Gulf Crisis.  The dramatic increases in oil prices in
response to the Gulf crisis, and the associated increases in Venezuelan
petroleum production, have significantly increased the oil revenues available
to Venezuela in the near term. The current account surplus for 1990 is now
estimated to be about US$6.3 billion compared to the pre-Gulf crisis estimate



of about US$1.3 billion.Y Given that all oil production and refining is in
the hands of the state company, PPVSA, this increase in export revenues
accrues directly to the public sector. However, the Government has taken an
appropriately prudent attitude regarding this oil windfall. The premise of
GOV's policy is that the windfall must be regarded as temporary and does not
provide justification for departures from the on-going adjustment program.
Consistent with this premise, GOV has submitted to the Congress a budget for
1991 which assumes an annual average price for Venezuelan crude and product
exports of $19/bbl. Furthermore, given the premise that the windfall must be
regarded as temporary, it is GOV's policy that a substantial part of the
incremental oil revenues should be saved in anticipation of subsequent
declines. For this purpose the Government has agreed in the context of the
EFF to an oil contingency mechanism under which reserve targets would be
increased whenever oil revenues exceed programmed levels. The Government has
indicated that incremental fiscal resources which are not subject to the
contingency mechanism will be used largely to support the essential elements
of the adjustment program, such as the restructuring of major public
enterprises.
14.      Performance under the IMF's EFF.  Notwithstanding the delays
mentioned above in completing the second year program and releasing the
purchases associated with the March and 7une performance targets, agreement is
expected shortly between the Government and the IMF on performance targets for
the period through December 1991 and on the necessary measures to achieve
these targets. Subsequent to that agreement, the IMF Management is expected
to recommend to its Executive Directors approval of the second year program
and, as a consequence, waivers to allow the purchases originally scheduled for
mid-May and mid-August as well as to allow IMF support for the debt package.
15.      Performance under Bank Adlus6..nent Loans.  Throughout 1990 progress
has been made on the policy reforms associated with the Bank's SAL and TPL.
Key measures already taken include the increases in domestic petroleum product
prices since June 1990, expansion of the targeted social programs, further
liberalization of the interest rates of public development funds, the second
phase of the trade liberalization program, and the reduction of the export
bonus. Following the recent decisions by GOV on its fiscal program for 1991,
which is a central element of the overall macroeconomic framework, the
macroeconomic conditions for releasing the second t-'anches of the SAL and TPL
have been fully met. The second tranche of the SAL ia expected to be released
soon. The release of the second tranche of the TPL is also expeceed soon
subject to clarification by GOV of its recent policy decision on the export
V   By the convention of the CBV, the current account includes imputed private
interest income on assets held abroad of about US$1 billion annually. This
flow of factor payments is not actually realized, and an offsetting
outflow is therefore included in the capital accounts. Under this
convention, Venezuela's current account is therefore overstated by about
US$1 billion. Nonetheless, for the sake of comparability with figures
presented by the CBV and also by the IMF, this convention is followed
throughout this Report.



bonus scheme. For the PERL and the FSAL, an adequate macroeconomic frsmework
is a condition of effectiveness; following GOV's recent decisions on the 1991
fiscal program, both of these loans will be declared effective shortly.
C. The Medium-Term Macroeconomic and Policy Prsmework
16.      GOV'8 medium-term strategy is designed to restore high rates of
growth of output and employment in a context of low inflation and a viable
balance of payments. This would be achieved through the full implementation
of the on-going program aimed ats (a) reducing the scope of the pUfblic sector
in the economy through fiscal restraint, deregulation, and privatization of
selected public enterprises; (b) enhancing the efflciency of resource use by
liberalizing trade, allowing prices to move to economic levels, and redefining
the relationship between the Government and the public enterprises in order to
subject those enterprises to market disciplines; (c) strengthening the
financial system and its efficiency; and (d) reducing the external debt burden
through an agreement with its commercial bank creditors which puts its
relationship with the international financial community on a clear and
sustainable basis.
17.      Quantifying the impact of this policy framework is difficult because
Venezuela's economy is extremely sensitive to oil sector movements. The oil
sector accounts for about 25S of GDP, 902 of export earnings and 801 of public
sector revenues. Each change of US$1 per barrel in tho price of oil results
in a change of about US$650m annually in Venezuela's export earnings, equal to
about 61 of average export earnings during 1987-89. The uncertainties inherent
in macroeconomic projections are therefore especially great in the Venezuelan
case. Nevertheless, macroeconomic projections under alternative oil sector
assumptions are presented and discussed in Annex 4. In these projections, it
is shown that, over a significant range of oil sector assumptions, the policy
framework described above--supported by a reduction in the external debt
burden through implementation of the Plan--would be expected to generate a
growth path with the following characteristics. Gross national savings should
rise rapidly in the coming years to about 251 of GDP due to positive real
interest rates in a liberalized financial system and improved fiscal
performance. In fact, the consolidated public sector would move to a
sustained fiscal surplus, reflecting rising domestic revenues from the
pezioleum sector, declining external interest payments as a obare of GDP, and
improved financial performance by public enterprises. In that event, the
already small stock of public domestic debt would be progressively reduced,
and the public sector would be a net lender to the private sector. Based on
this Increased domeostic savings effort, gross investment would also rise to
about 25S of GDP, and, assuming substantial improvements in efficiency due to
the new policy environment, this level of investment should umke possible non-
oil GDP growth rates on the order to 5-61 per annum. This would in turn make
possible average annual increases in per capita private consumption on the
order of 1-21 during the first half of this decade. Given a market-determined
exchange rate and the liberalized environment for investment and trade, real
non-oil exports would grov at a healthy pace of 101 or more per annum. The
current account balance would, of course, be highly sensitive to oil sector
developments. International reserves would need to be rebuilt substantially



- 8 -
from the low levels of 1988-89 so as to provide a cuahion against swings in
oil revenues. Debt ratios would decline significantly: for example, the
ratio of total debt service to exports would decline from about 40S in 1988 to
near 201 throughout the 1990s. Hence, Venezuela's creditworthiness would
Improve significantly.
D. Conclusion RegardiAl Elinibilitv for lank Su1Dort
18.      The record during 1989 and 1990 clearly demonstrates the continuing
commitment of GOV to the policy reform program which has been supported by the
Bank's SAL, TPL, PERL, and FSAL and by the IMF's EPF. Furthermore, given
GOV's commitment to continued implementation of its policy reform program, the
macroeconomic outlook over the medium-term--involving significant growth of
GDP and per capita consumption with a sustainable external balance--is
favorable. Given that it has a sound medium-term economic policy framework,
Venezuela should be considered to have satisfied this general condition for
Bank support for an acceptable DDSR program.
PART III - VENEZUELA' S 1990 FINANCING PLAN
A. Overview of the Plan
19.      The 1990 Financing Plan agreed between GOV and its commercial bank
creditors provides for the voluntary exchange of outstanding loans for one or
more new debt instruments and for the purchase of New Money Bonds. The
outstanding loans which may be exchanged for new instruments under the Plan--
referred to as the Eligible Debt--are: (a) about US$18.5b equivalent in
outstanding loans subject to the 1986 Restructuring Agreement between GOV and
its commercial bank creditors, as amended in September 1987; and (b) about
US$1.2 billion in non-restructured loans disbursed to the Venezuelan public
sector prior to March 1983. The Eligible Debt of US$19.7b equivalent amounts
to 731 of Venezuela's outstanding medium- and long-term, public and publiely-
guaranteed debt.
20.      Under the Plan, commercial banks holding Eligible Debt may choose to
exchange that debt for any combination of five new instruments:r
* Collateralized Short Term Notes (Short Term Notes)
* Collateralized Floating Rate Discount Bonds (Discount Bonds)
V   The Plan and its instruments are essentially unchanged from that described
in the Briefing Note. However, for reasons explained below, the cash
buyback mentioned in the Briefing Note has been replaced by an option to
exchange Eligible Debt for the Short Term Notes.  For the other
instruments, the terminology has been changed from that used in the
Briefing Note: (a) the Discount Bonds had been referred to as Defeased
Principal Discount Bonds; (b) the Par Bonds, as Defeased Par Bonds; and
(c) the nLIRBs, as Temporary Interest Reduction Bonds.



Collateralized Fixed Rate Par Bonds (Par Bonds)
Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds (FLUB,), and
A Debt Conversion Bonds (Conversion Bonds).
Convesion Bonds will be issued only to those creditors which commit to extend
new moiey to Venezuela by purchasing Rev Money Bonds. The terms of these
instruments are summarized in Table 111.1 and discussed below.
B. Descrigtion of the Instruments
21.      The Short Term Notesa' have a maturity of 91 days and are issued by
CBV. Denominated only in U.S. dollars, they have an aggregate face value
equal to the sum of (a) 452 of the aggregate principal amouat of the Eligible
Debt for which they are exchanged (the "Discounted Amount") and (b) an amount
equal to interest on the Discounted Amount for a period of 91 days at an
interest rate equivalent to the yield on the 13-week U.S. Treasury bills
prevailing just prior to the exchange.F The Short Term Notes are fully
collateralized by a pledge of U.S. Treasury obligations. The exchange of the
Notes for EligSible Debt is financially equivalent to a cash buyback at a rate
of $0.45 per $1.00 of Eligible Debt, which is in line with the secondary
market price of Venezuelan debt at the time that the Term Sheet was finalized.
This exchange mechanism is being used, instead of a cash buyback, because, in
the opinion of legal counsel to the Republic and the Bank Advisory Committee,
such an exchange does not require waivers of the sharing provisions in the
existing agreements between Venezuela and its commercial bank creditors. A
cash buyback would have required such waivers from 1001 of the creditors,
which would probably not have been feasible.
22.      The Discount Bonds and Par Bonds--collectively referred to as
Collateralized Principal Options--have many common features. Issued in
registered formF by the Republic of Venezuela, the bonds will have a bullet
maturity on March 31, 2020, which is 30 years from the Date of Effectiveness
as defined below. The principal amount of these bonds will be fully
collateralized by the pledge of U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds (or comparable
securities in other currencies) with a principal value and maturity date
matching that of the Discount and Par Bonds. Interest payments will be partly
f   The Short Term Notes were fully described in the President's memorandum to
the Executive Directors, R90-197, October 11, 1990. As discussed below,
the Short Term Notes were issued on October 18, 1990.
V   The latter amount is approximately 12 of the aggregate principal amount of
the Eligible Debt for which the Short Term Notes are exchanged.
f   The Discount and Par Bonds will be in registered form except for those in
any currency for which another form is required for listing by regulations
of general application in the jurisdiction of that currency. This is
likely to be the case for the bonds denominated in Deutsche Marks, which
will be issued in bearer form.



Tob.e III.1 - SUmrY of tnstruem ets of the rbn
................................................................................... ................................................................................................................................,,.. ....................... 
Vatue
SiZs of        Reconery
Interest       Provision    Bearer or
Source of                                   collateral for                             Grace       Escrow         Linked to    RegIstered
Instrtment                     Discount                Interest Rate            Principatl            aturity         Period       Account       Ofl Prices        Bonds
...................................... 0..........................................................................................
Short-term   otes           55   of PrincIpal       13-week Treasury    Treasury bills            91 dys               N.A.        N.A.                 No        Registered
Bill Rate                                                                                                lotblt
Discount ond                30X of Principal          L19    . + 13116X     30-year Zero           30 years             N.A.         14 Months           Yes       Registered            °
Coqpcn Bonds 
Par Bnd                    Below Market              Fixed 6.75X           30-year Zero           30 years             N.A.         14 months          Tes        Registered
Interest Rate                                   Coupon Bonds
Front-Loaded                Betow Market Interest Ratas of SX               None                   17 years             7 years    12 months for    no             Bearer
interestReduction           (years 1 & 2)  6X (years 3 & 4)  72                                                                     first5 year,.
Bond (FLIES)                (yer  5)  and then LIBON  . 78?S                                                                        Then zero.
ow NMoney Bonds and         Monek New  oney           LIBR + 1X for          one                  New Money:            7 years    None                 No          earer for
Conrersion Bonds            equal to 20X of           402 of Mew Money.                              15 years                                                        both
debt exchanged for    LINO   + 7/8X for                               Conversion Bonds:
Conversion Bonds          rest of New Money                               17 years
and Converslon
............................................................................ ............................................................................................................................. ,. 
N.A. Mot applicable.



- 11 -
collateralized, on a roll-over basis for the full life of the bonds, by the
pledge of cash or certain permitted securities In an amount equal to 14 months
of interest payments."' Venezuela vill receive the income 8enerated by the
collateral pledged to secure interest payments.
23.      Both the Discount and Par Bonds include a value recovery mechanism in
the form of detachable and negotiable warrants (the "oil warrants") which
entitle the holder to semi-annual payments beginning April 15, 1996, whenever
the price of Venezuelan oil exports exceeds a certain price (the "strike
price"). The strike price is US$26 per barrel in 1996 and is adjusted
thereafter for inflation. The payment on each oil warrant equals the
difference between the actual Venezuelan oil export price and the strike price
on that date, subject to a nominal annual ceiling equal to 32 of the face
value of the debt exchanged.
24.      The Discount Bonds and Par Bonds differ in terms of the rate at which
they will be exchanged for Eligible Debt and their interest rates. The
Discount Bonds will be exchanged for Eligible Debt at a discount of 302 (i.e.,
US$100 of principal value of Eligible Debt will be exchanged for US$70 of
principal value of Discount Bonds) and will pay an interest rate equal to
13/16Z over LIBORF. The Par Bonds will be exchanged for an equivalent
principal amount of Eligible Debt and will pay a fixed interest rate per annum
of 6.752 in US dollars (or comparable rates in other currencies).
25.      The Front-Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds (FLIRBs) will be exchanged
at par for Eligible Debt and for the first 5 years will carry a fixed, below-
market interest rate. The rates on the U.S. dollar denominated FLIRBs will be
52 for the first two years, 62 for the third and fourth year, 72 for the fifth
year, and 7/82 over LIBOR thereafter.   During the 5 year period of reduced
interest rates, interest payments will be partly secured through a collateral
account covering approximately 12 months of interest payments'; after the 5
2' It is intended that the non-U.S. dollar denominated Discount Bonds and Par
Bonds will have collateral of equal U.S. Dollar value--as of the Exchange
Date--to the collateral for the U.S. dollar denominated bonds. Because of
differences in the cost of zero-coupon bonds in the different currencies,
the collateral for interest payments on non-U.S. aollar denominated bonds
will not necessarily cover 14 months of interest payments on those bonds.
IV Throughout this Report, LIBOR will refer to six-month LIBOR of the
currency in which the bond is issued. For any bonds under the Plan issued
in Italian Lire, for which a LIBOR is not available, a floating reference
rate will be agreed.
T She interest earned from securities in the collateral account for the
PLUBs will be accumulated within the collateral account so that the total
of the collateral will increase over time to approximately match the
increase in interest payments.



_ 12 -
year period, the funds in the collateral account will be returned to
Venezuela. FLIRBs will have a final maturity of 17 years with a 7-year grace
period and vill be in bearer form.
26.      Finally, as an alternative to an instrument involving debt or debt
service reduction, banks have the option to participate in the Plan by
purchasing New MoneI Bonds.  For each US$1 comitted to the purchase of New
Money Bonds, a bank will be able to exchange US$5 of Eligible Debt for
Conversion Bonds. Fifty percent of the New Money Bonds are to be purchased on
the date of exchange for the other instruments, 252 in early 1991, and the
remaining 25S in January 1992 provided the conditions for such purchaaes have
been met. The New Money and Conversion Bonds will have no collateralization
of principal or interest payments and will be issued in bearer form. The New
Money Bonds will have a final maturity of 15 years with a 7-year grace period.
They will be issued in two series: Series A (40X of the total of New Money
Bonds) will be issued by the Republic of Venezuela and will pay ai interest
rate of 12 over LIBOR; and Series B (602 of the total of New Money Bonds) will
be issued by CBV and will pay an interest rate of 7/8S over LIBOR.   The
Conversion Bonds will have a final maturity of 17 years with a 7- year grace
period, and will pay an interest rate of 7/82 over LIBOR.
C. Other Provisions of the Plan
27.      Conditions Precedent for Exchange.  The Term Sheet specifies several
conditions which must be satisfied before the exchange date for the Discount
Bonds, Par Bonds, FLIRBs, and Conversion Bonds and before the purchase of the
first tranche of the New Money Bonds. A key condition is that Venezuela has
made all purchases originally scheduled for 1990 under the IMP's EFF.1#
Other conditions includet establishment of all required collateral accounts;
no arrears on interest payments on the Eligible Debt; and consent to negative
pledge waivers by all creditors.
28.      Date of Effectiveness.  Until the date of exchange, Venezuela must
pay the contractual interest rate on the Eligible Debt to be exchanged for the
new instruments. However, under a complex mechanism for adjustment of
payments, on the first interest payment date of the new bonds in 1991, the
banks will rebate to Venezuela the difference between payments at that
contractual rate and payments at the rates on the Discount Bonds, Par Bonds,
and LIRBs for the period from April 1, 1990, to the date of exchange. Hence,
April 1, 1990, is the date of effectiveness for these instruments.
29.      Bond Currencies and Currenc_  Conversions.  The Par and Discount Bonds
will be issuable in US Dollars, Deutsche Marks, Dutch Guilders, French Francs,
Italian Lire, and Swiss Francs. The FLIBs, New Money, and Conversion Bonds
will be issuable in these six currencies and also Pound Sterling. Issuance of
Bonds in a particular currency is subject to an agreed minimum amount offered
Ifl  Similarly, a condition precedent for subsequent purchases of New Money
Bonds is that Venezuela should have made all purchases originally
scheduled under the EFF by the corresponding date.



- 13 -
for exchange in that currency. Participating banks are allowed to convert all
or part of their non-U.S. dollar denominated Eligible Debt into U.S. dollar
denominated instruments. In addition, non-U.S. participating banks may
convert up to 202 of Eligible Debt denominated in U.S. dollars into new
instruments denominated into home currency if such bonds are issued in such
currency.
30.      Other Provisions.  The Plan provides for early participation fees for
banks which submitted commitment telexes by August 15, 1990. These fees were
1/2Z of commitments for New Money Bonds and 118S of commitments for Discount
Bonds, Par Bonds, and PLIBs. The Term Sheet also establishes that Venezuela
will consider all instruments in the Plan to be exit instruments which will
not be considered part of base debt for future requests for new money and will
not be subject to rescheduling. All bonds issued under the Plan will be
eligible to participate in Venezuela's debt for eauitv conversion proar,m, and
Venezuela undertakes to maintain that program at an average monthly level of
US$50m (after discounts). In addition, 502 of the Series B New Money Bonds
'equivalent to 30S of the total of New Money Bonds) will be entitled to
conversion into equity at par. And the Plan provides that Venezuelan
insurance institutions will be able to include bonds issued under the Plan in
the calculation of their technical reserve requirements; this will create a
domestic demand for the bonds. Finally, under the Plan Venezuela can buy back
bonds in the market at any price and at any time provided it is not in
default.
D. Restonses of the Commercial Bank Creditors
31.      Creditors hriding Eligible Debt have responded favorably to the Plan.
By November 1, creditors holding over 992 of the Eligible Debt have submitted
commitment telexes %lecting to participate in one or more of the instruments
of the Plan. (About 902 of the Eligible Debt had been committed by August 15,
which was the cut-of! date for the early participation fees).
32.      The distribution of Eligible Debt among the instruments is given in
Table 111.2. The choices of the creditors reveal a strong preference for
maintaining claims on Venezuela. Of the US$19.5b committed as of November 1,
US$16.3b (842) will be exchanged for instruments involving no reduction of
principal value. Only US$1.4 billion Was offered for the Short Term Notes. It
can be assumed that these choices by Venezuela's creditors--which were made
after the August 2 invasion of Kuwait--were influenced by the prospect that
Venezuela's balance of payments position in the near term will be
significantly strengthened by developments In the oil market. The diversity
of instruments offered under the Plan made it possible for the creditors to
adapt to these changed circumstances. The fact that the Par Bonds turned out
to be the most preferred instrument may also reflect the regulatory and tax
advantages afforded by this instrument in several creditor countries: it may
enable banks to avoid any immediate write-offs but still to take some up-front
tax losses.



- 14 -
Table 111.2 - Distribution of Elizible Debt Among Instruments
Estimated Amount         Percent of
(in USS billions)     Total Eliaible Debt
Short Term Notes          $1.41                     72
Discount Bonds              1.79                    9
Par Bonds                   7.40                   38
FLIRBs                     2.92                    15
Conversion Bonds           6.00                    31
Total committed        $19.52                    99
Uncommitted to date      0.2                      1
Total Eligible tsebt    $19.7                   100
Memo item:  Amount of New Money Bonds - US$1.20 billion
E. Estimated Cost of Collateral
33.      Based on the above distribution of Eligible Debt among the
instruments, the cost of collateral for each of the instruments in the Plan
can be estimated. As shown in Table III.3, the total estimated cost of the
required collateral is about US$2.3 billion. The final cost may vary somewhat
from this estimate depending on the cost of the zero-coupon bonds purchased to
collateralize principal for the Discount and Par Bonds"'.
Table 111.3 - Estimated Cost of Collateral
(in US$ millions)
Principal     Interest      Total
Collateral   Collateral  for Instrument
Short Term Notes      $635            __          $635
Discount Bonds          109          143           252
Par Bonds              640           583         1,223
nLIRBs                  --           155           155
Totals    $1,384       $ 881          $2,265
1'  The estimated cost shown here are based on an assumed yield on 30 year US
dollar zero coupon bonds of 8.51.



- 15 -
34.      The total estimated cost of collateral required by the Plan is lses
than estimated in the Briefing Note which was prepared in May 1990. At that
time, it was assumed that there would be a substantially greater interest in
the buyback option and much less interest in the Conversion and New Money
Bonds. 
35.      Implementation of the Plan will also require GOV to provide
collateral for debt instruments not issued under the Plan. In addition to the
Eligible Debt and other credit agreements with its private and public
creditors, the Republic of Venezuela has outstanding approximately US$1.2
billion equivalent principal amount of bonds and notes issued in the
international capital markets and listed in the Luxembourg, Frankfurt, and
Tokyo Stock Exchanges. These bonds include negative pledge provisions which,
if not waived by the bondholders, require Venezuela to provide equal
collateral to that which will be provided for the instruments under the Plan.
However, the terms and conditions of the Republic's Deutsche Mark denominated
bonds do not contain mechanisms that would provide for amendments or waivers
of the negative pledge clauses of those bonds. After prolonged negotiations
with these bondholders during which other alternatives were explored, GOV has
agreed to provide collateral for all of these bonds in an amount proportionate
to the collateral to be provided for the Par Bonds. The total cost of this
collateral for the other bondholders is now estimated to be about US$200m
equivalent. In anticipation of this eventuality and because it is directly
related to the implementation of the Plan, the Bank has already agreed to a
limited waiver of the negative pledge provisions of its loan agreement with
the Republic of Venezuela to permit such collateralization of these
outstanding bonds.&
F. Estimated Financial Support for the Plan
36.      GOV has requested financial support for the implementation of the
Plan from the Bank, the IMP, and the Japan Export-Import Bank (JEXIM). The
estimated amounts to be provided by each institution are snown in Table III.4.
The amounts shown for the IMf and the JEXIM are estimates and remain subject
to final decisions by those institutions. The balance of funds required to
implement the Plan will be provided from Venezuela's own resources.
12  Under the scenarios for the distribution of Eligible Debt among
instruments cited in the Briefing Note, the cost ranged from US$3.2 to
US$3.8 billion, although it was noted that cost in the range of US$2.5
billion might be possible.
IF See the President's Memorandum to the Executive Directors, R90-197,
October 11, 1990.



- 16 -
Table 111.4 - Estimated Supgort from Official Institutions
(in US$ millions)
Set Aside      Additional     Other   Total by
Funds        Resources     Funds    8ource
World Bank            $252W           $150           __       $402
INF                    660             220            -        880
JEXIM                   --              -          $300        300
Total by category     $912            $370         $300    $1,582
G. Timetable for Implementation of the Plan
37.      The Plan is being implemented in two stages.  The first stage,
already successfully completed on October 18, 1990, involved the exchange of
US$1.4 billion in Eligible Debt for Short Term Notes by the creditors which
elected this option. The exchange of Eligible Debt for the Short Term Notes
was implemented at that time because Venezuela would continue to pay the
contractual interest rate on that portion of the Eligible Debt which will be
exchanged for the Notes until the actual date of exchange (without rebates
from April 1, 1990, as will be the case for the Discount Bonds, Par Bonds, and
F.IRBs). Hence, any delays in issuing the Short Term Notes would have
involved additional interest costs to Venezuela. The date of October 18,
1990, was chosen as the exchange date for the Short-Term Notes because it was
an interest payment date on the Eligible Debt. Collateral for the Short-Trm
Notes was purchased by CBV from its own resources.
38.      The second stage, scheduled for December 18, 1990, will comprise the
exchange of Eligible Debt for the other instruments in the Plan and the
issuance of the first tranche of the New Money Bonds. The Term Sheet
establishes that the exchange date may not be later than December 18 without
the consent of holders of two-thirds of the Eligible Debt.
PART IV - EVALUATION OF THE PLAN
39.      Given the participation of virtually 100% of the holders of Eligible
Debt, the Plan constitutes a comprehensive restructuring of about three-
fourths of Venezuela's public and publicly-guaranteed debt. Its major
impacts on Venezuela's external debt obligations will be:
XV This table assumes that only US$252m out of the maximum amount of US$285m
will actually be needed to cover the full cost of collateral for the
Discount Bonds. See Part VI.



- 17 -
*    Reotructurina princiDal Davments.  In the absence of the Plan, about
US$12b in principal payments on the Eligible Debt of US$19.7b would
fall due during 1990-96. Under the Plan, US$1.4b vill be retired in
1990, and US$9.2b will be effectively prepaid through the purchase of
US$0.75b of zero coupon bonds to eollateralize future repayment.  The
principal payments on the balance of US$8.9b will be rescheduled to
amortize over 10 years beginning in 1997. Hence, during 1991-96,
Venezuela will make no amortization payments on the Eligible Debt,
providing a substantial period for recovery of its capacity to pay
back these principal amounts.
*    Reducina interest Payments.  Interest payments to the commercial bank
creditors vill be reduced by about US$300m per year during 1991-96,
and this savings would be larger if LIBOR rates increase from present
levels.
*    Reducin_ the variability of interest ravments.  Of the new debt
instruments, US$1O.3b (the Par Bonds and FLIRBs) will carry fixed
interest rates for the period 1990-95, and US$7.4b (the Par Bonds)
will carry a fixed rate for their life of 30 years. This reduces the
variability of Venezuela's interest payment obligations and provides
considerable protection against increasing interest rates.
*    Providin_ new money.  The Plan provides US$1.2b in new money
disbursements to Venezuela during 1990-92.
40.      This Part of the Report provides a detailed evaluation of the Plan.
Section A presents a financial analysis of each of the instruments in the Plan
and evaluates the cost-effectiveness and internal rate of return of each
instrument. Section B considers the aggregate impacts of the Plan on cash
flows and considers the present value of savings and the internal rate of
return for the Plan as a whole. Section C diScusses the likely direct and
indirect effects of the Plan on Venezuela's mediui. term economic prospects.
And, finally, issues of creditworthiness, risk management and Bank exposure
are reviewed in Section D.
A. Financial Analysis of Instruments in the Plan
41.      Table IV.1 presents the "equivalent buyback price" and the internal
rate of return on resources invested in each instrument.W The "equivalent
buyback price" is the theoretical price at which using the collateral funds
W   For this analysis it is assumed that, even in the absence of the Plan, the
Eligible Debt would have been rescheduled with a tenor of 17 years and a
7-year grace period (as for the Conversion Bonds) but that all contractual
interest payments would have been made.



- 18 -
for buybacks would generate the same present value of debt service savings as
using that amount of funds to support the collateralized instruments.Ii
Table IV.1 - Financial Evaluation of Collateralized Instruments
Equivalent     Real Internal
Buvback Price    Rate of ReturnUl
Short Term Notes                  452               252
Discount Bonds                    31                35
Par Bonds                         40                27
FLIRBs                            24                 *LW
42.      The "equivalent buyback prices" for the three long-term
collateralized instruments--the Discount Bonds, Par Bonds, and FLIRBs--are
close to or below the secondary market price for Venezuelan debt (around $0.40
per $1) when the terms of the instruments were agreed in March 1990. This
indicates the cost-effectiveness of using collateral funds to support these
instruments. The "equivalent buyback price' and IRR for the Par Bonds depends
on the assumed path of LIBOR. The fact that it appears less favorable to
Venezuela than the Discount Bond or the FLIRBs in Table IV.1 reflects the
assumed LIBOR rate used in these calculations. It is important to note that
the Discount and Par Bonds were designed through negotiations with the Bank
Advisory Committee to be approximately financially equivalent taking into
account interest rates (and the cost of swapping from fixed to floating rate)
at the time; in other words, the Par Bonds can be considered financially
equivalent to a 301 discount in principal for a floating rate instrument.-L
LF The equivalent buyback price is sensitive to assumptions about the cost of
the zero coupon bonds used to collateralize principal for the Discount and
Par Bonds, the assumed time path of LIBOR on which the interest rate of
the discount bond is based, and the assumed discount rate. For the
calculations in this table, collateral costs are as shown in Table 111.3,
LIBOR is assumed to remain constant at 8.252, and the discount rate is
101. This evaluation does not include the value of the "value recovery"
feature of the Discount and Par Bonds, which is discussed below.
X'  The real rate of return is calculated by counting all of the cost of
collateral in the first year regardless of whether or not those costs are
covered by funds which would not otherwise have been available to
Venezuela. For these calculations, the assumed inflation rate is 4.12.
1W Because the savings in the first year almost equal the cost of collateral,
the IRR on the FLIRBs is extremely high--well over 1001.
1   The marked preference by banks for the Par Bonds over the Discount Bonds
may reflect the more lenient regulatory and tax treatment afforded the Par
Bonds in several creditor countries.



- 19 -
43.      The above calculations do not include any estimated value for the oil
warrants associated with the Discount and Par Bonds. The warrants were
designed to enable creditors to share part of any gains to Venezuela from an
unexpected increase in the real oil price.a These warrants are essentially
long-dated call options on crude oil. Valuation of the warrants is difficult
because no regular market for comparable instruments now exists, and valuation
based on option pricing theory depends critically on the assumptions about the
future probability distribution of the oil price. Using a modified version of
an options pricing model and plausible assumptions about that probability
distribution, the value of the warrants is estimated to be 2-52 of the face
value of the Eligible Debt exchanged for the Discount and Par Bonds. ' While
the warrants reduce the value of the cash flow savings from the Plan, it is
important to emphasize that Venezuela will have to make payments on the
warrants only in circumstances in which it will have the ability to do so.l
B.  Aztretate Impacts on Venezuela's Cash Plows
44.      Tables IV.2a and IV.2b summarize the direct impacts of the Plan on
cash flows for Venezuela.W The cash flows associated with the Plan over a
30 year horizon are presented in Annex 3. The following points regarding the
aggregate cash flow projections should be highlighted:
*    If it is assumed that Venezuela would have had to make the
contractual amortization payments on the Eligible Debt, the Plan
provides direct cash flow savings to Venezuela averaging US$1.4b per
annum during 1991-95. This net reduction in its external payments
P   When the parameters of the warrants were decided, most projections of oil
prices for 1996 and beyond were below the strike price of US$26/bbl in
1996.  The warrants were therefore intended to be "out-of-the-money."
31  The lower bound of this estimate assumes that by 1996 oil prices will have
returned to approximately the level projected before the Gulf crisic.
This estimate does not include any reduction in value due to Venezuelan
credit risk. Given this risk, the warrants are likely to trade at a lower
price in the secondary market, and GOV will be able to repurchase them at
this lower secondary market price. Given the nominal cap of 3S per annum,
the maximum present value of payments on the warrants--if oil prices are
above the strike price from year 6 to year 30--is about 15Z of the face
value of the exchanged Eligible Debt.
'  To ensure that this is the case, the terms of the warrants specify that
payment obligations on the warrants will be suspended (but continue to
accrue if the oil price remains above the strike price) if the volume of
Venezuela's oil exports suffers a sudden decline for reasons beyond
Venezuela's control.
P   These tables show the direct cash flow effects and do not include gains or
losses of interest income from any associated changes in reserve levels.



- 20 -
Table IV.2a
Cash Flow Implications of 1990 Financing Plan
Assuming Contractual Amortization
Annuai
Average
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 1997-2007
Debt Service on Eligible Debt  2777  2838  2686  2638  2679  2706  2718   980
Principal                          2757   1318   1286   1354   1518   1683   1847   776
Interest                             20   1520   1400   1284   1161   1023    871   204
Debt Service on New Bonds          635  1136  1443  1443  1472  1534  1534  2121
Discount Bonds                             114    114    114    114    114    114   114
Par Bonds                                  500    500    500    500    500    500   500
Short Term Notes                    635
Front Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds      146    175    175    204    266    266   438
Conversion and New Money Bonds             626    654    654    654    654    654   1069
Interest Adjustment                       -250
Disbursements of New Money    600   300   300
Debt Service on Additional
Borrowings for Enhancements                 55     55      55     55   233   125    52
Income from
Collateral Accounts                         60     60     60      60   270       60    60
Use of Venezuela's Reserves
and Set Asides to Fund            1543
Enhancements
Direct Cash Flow  Effects        1199  2006  1548  1199  1212  1209  1118  -1133
Assumrap
1. Table assumes that in the absence of the Financing Plan payments on eligible debt would have been made
as contractually due.
2. The figure for Interest Payments on eligible debt in 1990 reflect only the effects of the exchange
for Short Term Notes.



- 21 -
Table IV.2b
Cash Flow Implications of 1990 Financing Plan
Assuming Rescheduled Amortization
Annual
Avetage
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 1997-2007
Debt Service on Eligible Debt        20  1769  1769  1769  1769  1769  1769  2926
Principal                                     0       0      0       0      0      0   1953
Interest                              20   1769   1769   1769   1769   1769   1769   973
Debt Service on New Bonds           635  1136  1443  1443  1472  1534  1534  2121
Discount Bonds                              114    114    114    114    114    114   114
Par Bonos                                   500    500    500    500    500    500   500
Short Term Notes                     635
Front Loaded Interest Reduction Bonds       146    175    175    204    266    266   438
Conversion and New Money Bonds              626    654    654    654    654    654   1069
Interest Adjustment                        -250
Disbursements of New Money    600   300   300
Debt Service on Additional
Borrowings for Enhancements                 55      55     55      55   233   125          52
Income from
Collateral Accounts                         60      60     60      60   270      60    60
Use of Venezuela's Reserves
and Set Asides to Fund            1543
Enhancements
Direct Cash Flow  Effects        -1558   938   631   331   302   272   170   813
Assumptions
1. Table Assumes that In the absence of the Financing Plan all eligible debt would have been rescheduled
on the same terms as the Conversion Bonds: tenor 17 years and a grace period of 7 years.
2. The figures for Debt Service In1990 reflect only the effects of the exchange for Short Term Notes.



- 22 -
vould be equivalent to about 7% of total projected annual export
earnings and also about 7Z of the projected annual level of public
sector expenditures during this period.
*   Alternatively, if it is assumed that, even in the absence of the
Plan, Venezuela could have successfully rescheduled the Eligible Debt
so that that debt vould be amortized over 10 years starting in 1997
(as is the case for the Conversion Bonds under the Plan), then the
direct cash flow savings to Venezuela would average about US$500m per
annum during 1991-95. The cash flow savings is highest in the first
two years in which the New Money Bonds are issued and decline during
1993-96 as the savings on the FLIRBs decreases and amortization would
begin on some of the additional resources borrowed to finance the
Plan. However, from 1997 through 2006, when it is assumed that, in
the absence of the Plan, the original Eligible Debt would have been
amortized, the cash flow savings increase to an average of over
US$800m per annum.
45.      The internal rate of return from the direct cash flow savings from
the Plan as a whole is quite high. Counting all of the costs of the Plan in
the first year (US$2.3b), the real IRR on the cash flow savings is 35% under
the assumption that, without the Plan, the Eligible Debt would have been
rescheduled with a tenor of 17 years and a 7 year grace period but all
contractual interest payments would have been made. This aggregate IRR is
higher than the individual IRRs for the Par Bonds, Discount Bonds, and Short-
Term Notes because of the impact of the FLIRBs, which have very little up-
front cost, and of the new money.
46.      Another approach to evaluating the impact of the Plan is to consider
the present value of the stream of payments which Venezuela must make to its
commercial bank creditors with and without the Plan. As shown in Annex 3, the
present value of the savings in payments under the Plan is US$3.8b (evaluated
at a discount rate of LIBOR + 13/162), which is equal to 20Z of the face value
of the original debt.
47.      The calculations presented above are somewhat sensitive to the
assumption about the future path of LIBOR. The reduction in interest payments
under the Plan derive in large part from the differences between the floating
rate would have paid on the Eligible Debt and the fixed rates paid on the Par
Bonds and, for the first 5 years, on the FLIRBs. For Tables IV.1, IV.2.a and
IV.2.b, LIBOR from 1991 onwards is assumed to be 8.25%. If LIBOR rates fall
toward the 6.752 fixed rate on the Par Bonds, the savings provided by the Plan
would decrease. In this connection, two points are important. First, in the
event that future LIBOR rates are low, the interest burden on Venezuela's
floating rate debt--which is much larger than the amount of the Par Bonds--
would decline. This would more than compensate for the loss of savings from
the Par Bond. Second, if it is assumed, as discussed above, that, on the
basis of an interest rate swap from fixed to floating rates, the Par Bond is
equivalent to a floating rate bond with a 30S discount on principal, then the
cash flow savings would be slightly larger than that shown in the above
tables.



- 23 -
48.      The calculations shovn here do not include the possible value of the
oil warrants attached to the Discount and Par Bonds. If these are evaluated
at 3% of the face value of the Eligible Debt for which the Discount and Par
Bonds are exchanged, it would reduce the present value of the payment stream
under the Plan by about US$300m so that the total reduction achieved by the
Plan would be 18%. However, as already noted, payments on the oil warrants
would only be made in circumstances in which Venezuela could easily afford to
do so.
C. Direct and Indirect Effects on Medium-Term Economic Prospects
49.      The direct benefit of the Plan to the Venezuelan economy is, of
course, the significant cash flow savings as calculated above. This section
considers the impact of these direct benefits, as well as possible indirect
benefits, on Venezuela's medium term prospects.
50.      In general, the direct benefit of the cash flow savings will be a
higher level of imports and/or international reserves than would otherwise be
possible. Any increase in imports would, depending on the breakdown of such
imports among consumer, intermediate, and capital goods, make possible higher
levels of consumption, capacity utilization, and investment. To the extent
that the savings also make possible a higher level of international reserves,
this would provide incremental protection against future adverse developments
and eventually make possible higher imports than would otherwise be possible
in future years.
51.      In addition to such direct benefits, it is likely that the Plan will
generate indirect benefits arising from an increase in confidence in the
sustainability of Venezuela's external balance. In particular, the private
sector--both domestic and foreign--will recognize that, given the reduction in
payments which Venezuela must make to its commercial bank creditors, the
likelihood of further depreciation or the reimposition of exchange and trade
controls in order to achieve a viable external balance is reduced. It will
also be recognized that the Plan puts Venezuela's relationship with the
international financial community on a clear and sustainable basis. Therefore,
the risk of disruptions in trade and project financing due to continuing
disputes with the international banking community is significantly reduced.
This also increases the expected net inflows on the capital account and
improves the sustainability of the external balance. For these reasons, the
Plan will reduce the risk premium required by investors--both domestic and
foreign--on Venezuelan domestic assets and increase the expected levels of
direct foreign investment and repatriation of capital held abroad by
Venezuelan nationals. In short, it would induce an outward shift in the
supply curve of capital from these sources. This would be accompanied by a
lower domestic real interest rate and a higher level of investments.
52.      It is not possible to quantify these effects with any precision.
Nonetheless, it is possible to gauge the potential magnitudes of these direct
and indirect effects by considering the size of the cash flow savings relative
to the relevant parameters of the Venezuelan economy. To be conservative, it
is assumed that, even in the absence of the Plan, Venezuela would have been



- 24 -
able to reschedule its amortization payments to the commercial banks but would
have made its contractual interest payments in order to avoid the disruptions
and uncertainty associated with extended arrears. In that case, as discussed
above, the direct cash flow savings would average US$500m per annum during
1991-95 (and over US$800m per annum in the decade thereafter). How large is
this amount and what impacts could it have on imports, investment, and growth?
53.      The average annual cash flow savings of US$500m amounts to almost 1%
of projected GDP annually during 1991-95 and about 3.5% of projected gross
investment annually. If it were assumed that, in the absence of the Plan,
capital good imports and investments would be reduced by the full amount of
the cash flow savings, then, using the estimated capital-output ratio, the
loss in output growth would be on the order of 0.25% per annum.
54.      With respect to indirect benefits, it is projected that, given the
restoration of confidence and the policy environment created by the policy
reform program and the Plan, direct foreign investment in Venezuela could
average about US$600m annually in the coming years.N Also, considering that
the stock of Venezuelan assets held abroad is now estimated to be in the tens
of billions of dollars (given the massive capital flight in the early 1980s)
and that this stock generates several billion dollars of income each year, it
is plausible that capital repatriation could amount to about US$lOOm annually
in the coming years. In the absence of the restoration of confidence
associated with the Plan, it is likely that these amounts would be reduced
significantly. Reducing direct foreign investment and capital repatriation by
25-502 from the amounts indicated above would be equivalent to the loss of
0.75-1.50% of GDP in external capital for investment. This would reduce
output growth by about 0.2-0.5% per annum.
55.      These illustrative calculations are based on the premise that over
the medium- to long-term incremental foreign exchange would be used primarily
for investment. However, over shorter periods the contribution of incremental
foreign exchange to investment may be reduced. More generally, the value of
incremental foreign exchange to the Venezuelan economy over a given period
will depend on the level of oil prices and export revenues. The immediate
value to the economy of the cash flow savings from the Plan--both direct and
indirect effects--would clearly be greater during a period of low oil prices
than a period of high oil prices.   But, as noted above, given that Venezuela
is likely to face considerable variability of oil prices and revenues, the
cash flow savings from the Plan has an insurance value to the economy.
Temporary periods of high oil revenues, as at present, should not obscure the
fact that, over a longer period, the incremental resources provided by the
Plan will increase the likelihood of sustainable growth.
2y This amount would be about 3-5% of gross investment in the economy.
Although substantially higher than the level of direct foreign investment
during the mid-1980s, it is a realistic assumption given the recent,
substantial liberalization of regulations governing foreign investmert and
foreign interest in Venezuela's immense natural resources.



- 25 -
56.      These points are illustrated in Annex 4 which presents alternative
oil sector scenarios with and without the Plan. The impact of the Plan on
growth is positive in all scenarios. In the low oil revenue scenario, in
which the impact of the Plan is greatest, per capita consumption would
increase during the 1990s at an average annual rate of only 1.23S without the
Plan but 1.95S with the Plan. In other words, per capita consumption without
the Plan would grow about one-third less rapidly than with the Plan.
D. Creditworthiness and Risk Manaaement Considerations
57.      Proiection of Venezuela's Debt Ratios.  Assuming that Venezuela
maintains the policy framework now in place, and barring any significant
declines in the real price of oil, Venezuela's external debt ratios are
expected to improve substantially in 1991 compared to recent years and to
remain at tolerable levels for the decade. The Plan will contribute
noticeably to that improvement. Annex 4 shows projected ratios under the
alternative scenarios with and without the Plan. In these scenarios, it is
assumed as before that, in the absence of the Plan, Venezuela would have been
able to reschedule its amortization payments on the Eligible Debt to the tenor
of the new Debt Conversion Bonds but would have made its contractual interest
payments. Under Scenario A, with the Plan, the debt service to export ratio
falls from 39Z in 1988 to an average of 162 in the early part of this decade
and then increases to about 19S in 1997 when amortization of the new bonds
begins. Without the Plan, the debt service to export ratio averages about
1.5% higher through 1996 and then about 4% higher thereafter.
58.      Risk Manazement Considerations for Venezuela.  The projected ratios
of debt to exports are of course sensitive to the assumed path of oil prices:
steep and/or prolonged declines in the oil price would significantly increase
these ratios, as illustrated by Scenario B in Annex 4. In the event of
adverse oil market developments, Venezuela's first line of defense would be
its own international reserves. As shown in Annex 4, gross reserves are
expected to grow significantly during 1990 and 1991 even if oil prices return
toward pre-Gulf crisis levels. Furthermore, as noted in Part II, GOV has
established an oil contingency mechanism in the context of the EFF which will
hold a significant part of unexpected oil revenues for release only in the
event of below-projected revenues. However, under more extreme assumptions
about oil price developments, Venezuela would need to undertake further
adjustments to improve its external balance.
59.      It must be recognized that the Plan significantly changes the
structure of Venezuela's outstanding debt: the entire Eligible Debt (except
for that which is extinguished through the Collateralized Short-Term Notes)
will be converted from loans into bonds, of which US$8.6b will be in
registered form and US$10.lb in bearer form (including the New Money Bonds).
Although the registered bonds are effectively prepaid via the full
collateralization of principal, amortization of the bearer bonds will begin in
1997. In the Financing Plan, GOV has explicitly pledged that the bonds would
not be subject to rescheduling or new money calls, and, in any event, the
feasibility of rescheduling bonds, especially bearer bonds, is questionable.
Hence, the new debt structure involves an inflexible debt service schedule.



26 -
However, given the continuation of its current policy framework and hence the
growth of the economy as projected, Venezuela should be easily capable of
amortizing the new bonds beginning in 1997. Furthermore, the fact that a
major part of its debt will be in the form of bonds rather than syndicated
loans provides a potential advantage to Venezuela: it will be possible to buy
back bonds in the market without a concerted agreement among the creditors.
In periods of significant oil windfalls, this may be a course which GOV would
choose to pursue.
60.      Bank ExDosure and Risk.  At the beginning of FY89, given the hiatus
of 15 years in lending to Venezuela, the Bank had no outstanding loans to
Venezuela. Given the projected lending program for the coming years, the
Bank's exposure to Venezuela will remain low: under Scenario A in Annex 4, the
ratio of IBRD debt service to exports increases from 02 in 1990 to only 1.52
during the last 5 years of the decade. The incremental disbursements of the
proposed Interest Support Loan of US$150m in support of the Plan would be very
marginal: with the ISL, the ratio of IBRD debt service to exports would be
1.52 rather than 1.4S.
X. Summary and Conclusions on the Evaluation of the Plan
61.      Based on the analysis above, each of the instruments in the Plan
would involve the cost-effective use of collateral funds available to
Venezuela. Virtually 1001 of the Eligible Debt has been offered for exchange,
and therefore the Plan provides significant cash flow savings to Venezuela.
This cash flow savings is expected to have a material impact on Venezuela's
medium-term growth prospects, although the extent of that impact will depend
in part on the future path of oil revenues, and will contribute to the
improvement in Venezuela's external debt ratios and its creditworthiness. The
Plan provides insurance that Venezuela's growth can be sustained over the
medium-term even in the event of adverse oil market developments. The Plan
therefore meets the materiality criterion established for Bank support of a
DDSR program.
PART V - PROPOSED BANK SUPPORT FOR THE PLAN
62.      The Government of Venezuela has requested World Bank support for the
implementation of the Plan. Part V of this Report details the support which
has been requested and the implementation arrangements for that support. In
addition, it summarizes the support for the Plan which would be provided by
the IMF and the Japanese Export-Import Bank.
A. Set Aside Funds
63.      Set Aside Funds Available.  The four adjustment loans already made to
the Republic of Venezuela, as listed in Table V.1, include explicit provision
for the use of up to 251 of the proceeds of each loan for collateralization of
instruments involving debt reduction in the context of a DDSR program approved
by the Bank.



- 27 -
Table V.1--Avnroved Loans Includina Set Aside Funds
Date Aggroved      Amount (in USS m) of
Loan                    bv Board        Total Loan    Set Aside
Structural Adjustment Loan          June 15, 1989     $400           $100
Trade Policy Loan                   June 15, 1989      350             87.5
Public Enterprise Reform Loan       June 12, 1990      350             87.5
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan   June 12, 1990       300             75
Totals      $1,400           $350.0
64.      The set aside portions of the SAL and TPL are still available within
the second tranches of these loans. The set aside portions of the PERL and
PSAL were included as separate tranches to be available upon loan
effectiveness and approval by the Bank of the overall DDSR program.
65.      Set Aside Funds to be Used. GOV proposes to use up to US$285m from
these set aside funds to purchase the collateral needed for the Discount
Bonds. The estimated cost is now approximately US$l1Om equivalent for
principal collateralization and US$143m equivalent for collateralization of
14-months of interest payments. The amount of US$285 million is larger than
the current estimated cost of collateral for the Discount Bonds to allow for
the possible increase in the cost of the zero coupon bonds before the closing
date. The Bank will disburse only the amount actually needed for the
collateral. GOV has decided not to propose the use of Bank set aside funds to
finance retroactively the purchase of the Short Term Notes which was executed
by the CBV on October 18, 1990. Excluding the Short-Term Notes, the Discount
Bond is the only instrument which can be supported by set aside funds within
the present guidelines approved by the Bank, which preclude use of set aside
funds for collateralization of instruments, such as the Par Bond and nLIRB,
which do not involve reduction of principal. Of the up to US$285m to be
utilized as set aside funds, it is expected that US$lOOm will be taken from
the second tranche of the SAL, US$87.5m from the set-aside tranche of the
PERL, and the balance from the FSAL and/or the TPL. Any remaining balances of
the set aside portions of these loans will, according to the provisions of the
respective Loan Agreements, be available for disbursement against eligible
imports.
66.      Disbursement Arrangements.  In accordance vith an Implementation
Agreement to be entered into between the Bank and the Republic of Venezuela,
the proceeds of the Bank's set aside funds would be disbursed for payments in
respect of the provision of collateral for the Discount Bonds. Such
collateral would include: (a) U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds (or other
comparable collateral for other currencies), having a principal amount and
maturity matching that of the Discount Bonds and pledged as security against
repayment of the principal of the Discount Bonds; and (b) cash or permitted
securities held in a collateral account and pledged as security against
payment of interest on the Discount Bonds.   The Implementation Agreement will
be come effective only if: (a) GOV has concluded agreements with
participating leaders for the exchange of debt aggregating at least US$11.Ob



- 28 -
equivalent for Par Bonds, Discount Bonds, and FLIRBs and for new money
aggregating at least US$1.Ob equivalentV; and (b) GOV has confirmed
availability of the required collateral funds. Purthermore, no withdrawals
would be made from the Loan account unless (a) the Bank shall have approved
the procedures for withdrawall and (b) the Bank is satisfied with the
arrangements for the maintenance of collateral. For the purpose of
establishing and maintaining the collateral accounts, GOV will appoint a
collateral agent. Interest earned on the collateral accounts for the Discount
Bonds will be released by the collateral agent to GOV.
B. Interest Support Loan
67.      Amount.  GOV has also requested a new Interest Support Loan (ISL) in
the amount of US$150m. The full amount of this loan would be utilized to
purchase part of the collateral for 14 months of interest payments on the Par
Bonds. The requested amount and the proposed use of the ISL are consistent
with the guidelines established by the Bank. Under those guidelines,
Venezuela is eligible for up to 15Z of its three year lending program for an
ISL. Given the loan commitments of US$755m and US$680m in FY89 and FY90
respectively, and the programmed level of US$600m in FY91, Venezuela would be
eligible to request an ISL up to US$320m.
68.      It is proposed that the full amount of the ISL should be available
for disbursement at the time of settlement of the Plan so that these funds can
be utilized to set up the required collateral account for the Par Bonds.
69.      Contingent Prepayment Provision.  Given the substantial uncertainty
about near-term developments in the oil market and the major impact of oil
market developments on Venezuela's balance of payments situation, the
evolution of Venezuela's balance of payments over the near term is very
uncertain, and hence its capacity to use its own resources to finance the
collateral required by the Plan is uncertain. Taking into account the lag of
60-90 days between changes in spot prices in the oil markets and the
corresponding changes in Venezuela's oil receipts, only part of the projected
increase in revenues from the higher oil price has been realized to date.
Therefore, in the absence of sufficient financial support, the purchase of the
collateral necessary for settlement of the Plan as scheduled on December 18
will constitute a significant demand on GOV's international reserves. The
pace at which these reserves will be replenished depends primarily on the
near-term path of oil prices. Due to the extraordinary degree of uncertainty
about Venezuela's balance of payments position in the near term, the ISL
includes a contingency provision according to which the loan must be fully
'  Taking into account the Short-Term Notes already issued and the fixed
proportion of Conversion Bonds to New Money Bonds, this effectiveness
condition implies that at least 90Z of the Eligible Debt is exchanged for
new i..struments under the Plan.



- 29 -
prepaid (without payment of the prepayment premium) in the event that the
average price of crude oil (based on the price of West Texas Intermediate as
publicly quoted) exceeds US$23 per barrel during the twelve-mouth period from
December 18, 1990, which is the settlement date for the Plan, to December 18,
1991.
70.      The proposed ISL would provide support to the Plan consistent with
the Bank's guidelines for support of a DDSR program and conlistent with the
Bank's support for Venezuela's adjustment program, of which the DDSR program
with the co=mercial banks is an integral part. With the mandatory, contingent
prepayment provision, the Rank will nonetheless be assured that, if it becomes
clearly established that Venezuela can finance a greater share of the
collateral for the Plan from its cwm resources, the loan to the Bank will be
prepaid.
71.      Disbursement Arrangements.  In accordance with a Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Bank and the Republic of Venezuela, the proceeds of
the ISL would be disbursed for payments in respect of the provision of
interest collateral for the Par Bonds. The loan will become effective only
ift (a) GOV has concluded agreements with participating leaders for the
exchange of debt aggregating at least US$11.Ob equivalent for Par Bonds,
Discount Bonds and FLB,s and for new money aggregating at least US$1.Ob
equivalent; and (b) GOV has confirmed availability of the required collateral
funds. Furthermore, no withdrawals would be made from the loan account unless
(a) the Bank shall have approved the procedures for withdrawals; and (b) the
lank is satisfied with the arrangements for the maintenance of collateral.
For the purpose of establishing and maintaining the collateral accounts, GOV
will appoint a collateral agent, which would deposit into those accounts the
cash and securities pledged to secure interest payments. Interest earned from
the collateral accounts for the Par Bonds will be released by the collateral
agent to GOV.
C. Waivers of Neaative Pledas Clauses
72.      GOV has also requested that, pursuant to the terms of the negative
pledge clauses in its loan agreements with the Republic, the Bank consent to
the pledge of collateral in the amounts required for the Par Bonds, Discount
Bonds, and the FLIRBs. As shown in Table 111.3, the estimated amounts
required are US$1,475m equivalent for the full collateralization of principal
and partial collateralization of interest payments for the Par and Discount
Bonds and US$155m for the parti..l collateralization of interest payments for
the FLIRBs. However, to allow for the possible increase in the cost of zero
coupon bonds before the settlement date, it is proposed that waivers be
granted for collateral not to exceed $2000m. The pledge of collateral for the
Par and Discount Bonds would be far the 30-year life of those bonds, while the
pledge of collateral for the FLRBs would be only for the 5 year period during
which the interest rate on these bonds would be fixed at a below-market rate.
In its letter requesting such vaivers from the Bank, GOV has reaffirmed its
obligations to continue to make timely payments on its loans from the Bank and
affirms that such loans will not be subject to rescheduling requests. GOV has
stated its understanding that the consent by the Bank to this request would be



- 30 -
limited to the transactions included in the Plan as described in this Report
and would be without prejudice to the Bank's position on the negative pledge
clause under its loan and guarantee agreements in general.
73.      Given that the Plan satisfies the criteria for DDSR programs which
can be supported by the Bank within its established guidelines, granting such
waivers as requested by GOV would be in accordance with the Bank's policy on
negative pledge waivers as set forth in "IBID's Negative Pledge Policy with
Respect to Debt and Debt Service Reduction Operations" (R90-1S1, dated July
19, 1990).
74.      The waivers requested with respect to the pledge of collateral for
the Par Bonds, Discount Bonds, and FLIRBs would be in addition to the waivers
already granted by the Bank for the pledge of collateral for the
Collateralized Short-Term Notes and for the holders of certain other bonds as
described in the President's Memorandum to the Executive Directors entitled
"Venezuela: Debt and Debt Service Reduction Operation--Request for Negative
Pledge Waivers in Relation to the Issuance of Collateralized Short-Term Notes"
(R90-197, October 11, 1990).
D. Burden Sharino
75.      Assuming that the Bank, IMF, and JEXIM approve all of GOV's requests
for financing as estimated in Table I11.4 above, the funds provided by each
institution and by the GOV for implementation of the Plan and the shares
provided by each would be as shown in Table V.2. The share of resources
provided by GOV is considerably higher than originally envisioned in the
Briefing Note, reflecting its stronger financial position as a result of
recent oil market developments and the higher-than-expected purchase of New
Money Bonds by the commercial banks.
Table V.2--Estimated Funds and shares in Support of the Pla
Total gunds
USSm Percent
World Bank                     $402      18%
IMF                            880       39
JEXIM                           300      13
GOV                             683      30
Total  $2,265     100%
MM This table assumes that only US$252m out of the proposed US$285m will
actually be needed to cover the full cost of the collateral for the
Discount Bonds.



- 31 -
In the event that oil prices remain high and the contingent prepayment
provision of the ISL is triggered, then ex-post GOV's share of the financing
for the Plan would increase to 37% and the Bank's share would decrease to 11%.
S. Beneflits and Risks
76.      As discussed in Part IV of this Report, the implementation of the
Plan would materially improve Venezuela's medium-term development prospects by
providing significant cash flow savings, placing its relationship with the
international financial community on a firm basis, and contributing to
confidence in the sustainability of its external balance and growth-oriented
adjustment program. The Bank's support for the Plan through the provision of
set aside funds, an Interest Support Loan, and waivers of negative pledge
restrictions would contribute significantly to GOV's capacity t4. implement the
Plan without drawing excessively on its own resources. In the event that, due
to near-term developments in oil markets, GOV's own resources increase
significantly in the near term, the contingent prepayment provision of the ISL
would require prepayment of the ISL to the Bank, in which case GOV would
itself provide a greater share of the resources required by the Plan.
77.      The risk to the Bank associated with its proposed support for the
Plan is minimal. Under the existing adjustment loans, Venezuela has the right
to draw the entire amount of these loans, provided that all tranche release
and other conditions are met, even if the set aside provisions of these loans
are not utilized. Hence, the only incremental exposure for the Bank arises
from the ISL. Given the Bank's very small exposure to Venezuela at present,
the projected growth of Bank exposure, including that arising from the ISL, is
well within the Bank's guidelines and, in light of Venezuela's favorable
development prospects, the risk to the Bank from that exposure is acceptable.
PART VI - COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS
78.      After a 15-year hiatus in its lending relationship with Venezuela,
the Bank in FY89 initiated a substantial program to support GOV's efforts to
create a policy environment for sustainable growth. The Bank's initial focus
has been on supporting the Government's program of policy reform through
adjustment lending. Given that dealing with its external debt overhang has
been an integral part of Venezuela's overall adjustment program, the Bank's
initial program anticipated, through the provision of set asides, support for
a possible DDSR program. Increasingly, the Bank's focus is shifting toward
investment lending in the social sectors, public infrastructure, and
environment.
A. History of Bank Assistance
79.      Between 1961 and 1974, the Bank approved 13 loans to Venezuela,
totalling US$383m, of which US$342m was disbursed. IBRD loans included
support for agricultural development, transport, power, telecommunications,



- 32 -
and water supply. Most projects were viewed as relatively successful, and the
loans were fully repaid as of June 1989.
80.      After the 1973 oil windfall, Venezuela choose not to borrow from the
Bank, and subsequently the country's per capita income increased to levels
above the Bank's graduation limit. However, the Bank maintained a Resident
Mission in Caracas through 1979 otd provided technical assistance to help in
the appraisal of proposed projects and in general economic analysis.
81.      Confronted by the onset of the debt crisis and a sustained decline in
economic output in the mid-1980s, Venezuela sought a renewed borrowing
relationship with the Bank and, in light of its reduced per capita income
levels, was declared eligible to borrow in 1986. The strength of the economic
program initiated by the Administration of President Perez in February 1989
provided a basis for a resumption of Bank lending.
B. Bank Operational Stratenv
82.      The Bank's operational strategy in Venezuela has two basic thrusts.
The first has been to use adjustment lending operations to assist the
Government in sustaining and broadening the policy and institutional reform
process which is essential for the restoration of sustainable growth. The SAL
and TPL have supported the basic policy changes required to reduce distortions
in the economy, increase the role of market forces in the allocation of
resources, and expose domestic producers to greater competition through trade
liberalization. The PSAL, approved in June 1990, supports efforts to
strengthen and liberalize the financial system. The PERL, also approved in
June 1990, supports efforts to redefine the role of the public sector in the
economy and to maximize the productive response to the adjustment program
through restructuring of key state enterprises, clarifying their relationship
with the central government, eliminating barriers to entry for private
enterprises, and privatizing selected enterprises.
83.      The second basic thrust of our strategy has been to build up a
pipeline of investment projects. Lending for investment projects will
nevertheless maintain a strong policy orientation: Bank lending will proceed
only in those sectors where necessary policy and institutional reforms are
undertaken. The pace of preparation, appraisal, and implementation of
investment projects is likely to be slowed by the newness of our relationship
with Venezuela and the Government's inexperience with Bank requirements and
procedures. To facilitate the preparation of projects, the Bank has approved
a Technical Assistance Loan in FY90. The planned shift toward investment
lending has begun in FY91 as described below.
84.      Until recently, our proposed lending program for Venezuela included
two additional adjustment loans to support the next, essential phases of the
policy reform process. These were the proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan and the Second Trade Policy Loan. In light of the improvement in
Venezuela's balance of payments position and prospects, it is now anticipated
that Bank support for these policy reform efforts will not take the form of



- 33 -
quick-disbursing adjustment loans. Instead, the Bank is working with GOV to
define appropriate investment lending in these sectorsl such lending would
nonetheless be conditional upon satisfactory progress on associated policy
reforms.
85.      Our analysis indicates that Venezuela is creditworthy for Bank
lending of up to $750m per annum. However, the actual amounts of commitments
in the coming years will depend on the capacity to prepare, appraise, and
implement projects and will also be adjusted to reflect the country's
financial needs. The Bank's key contribution is likely to be the assistance
provided by Bank staff in designing and implementing investment projects.
C. Sectoral Com2osition of Planned Bank Lendina
86.      Social Sectors and Environment.  The program for FY91 includes a
Social Development and Nutrition Project which will support the nation-wide
expansion of a program for maternal-infant health and nutrition. A Barrio
Upgrading Project now scheduled for FY92 will improve the physical
infrastructure and basic services in poor urban neighborhoods. In later years
it is anticipated that social sector projects with a strong poverty
alleviation orientation, including projects in the health and education
sectors, will have a central place in the Bank's lending to Venezuela.
Environment will also be an area of focus. A planned Environment Protection
Project will support establishment of the country's legal and institutional
framework for environmental protection while also helping to prepare and
finance specific investment projects to reverse the contamination of Lake
M!aracaibo.
87.      Agriculture.  Improving the efficiency of resource allocation in the
agricultural sector depends on basic reforms of the trade and pricing regimes.
GOV has already Initiated this process ahead of the original schedule.
Conditional upon adequate progress in policy reform, the Bank plans to provide
an Agriculture Sector Investment Loan which would help finance a time slice of
the Government's investments in the sector.
88.      Infrastructure.  Ins. butional and financial reforms are underway in
some key agencies in the infrastructure sector, and the Bank plans to support
these reforms as well as specific investment activities. The Caracas Water
Supply Project will be designed to significantly improve services in the
Caracas area under an arrangement in which operation of the water system will
be contracted to a private company. Other projects in urban transport, water
and sewerage, and perhaps the power sector are also under consideration.
89.      Trade. Finance, and Industry.  Following the reforms supported by the
PSAL, the stage would be set for a Private Sector Restructuring Loan intended
to assist the restructuring of private industry to cope with international
competition. Conditional upon continued progress in the trade liberalization
program, the Bank will also consider a loan to support export development.



- 34 -
D. IFC Agerations
90.      Because per capita income had exceeded the Bank Group's graduation
limit, IFC was not active in Venezuela for severa'. years. However, IFC
resumed operations there in the mid-1980s and now have an active program. In
the past three years, IFC has moved quickly to make major investments in areas
that had previously been the preserve of the public sector. Its focus has
been to support the Government's strategy of exploiting natural resources in
order to expand exports and diversify the economy.
E. Collaboration with the IMF
91.      The Bank and the IMF have worked closely together in support of the
adjustment program of the Perez Administration. That collaboration has
covered not only issues of macroecors.mic and external debt management but also
matters related to Bank loans which bear directly on fiscal performance, such
as the public enterprise reform loan.
PART VIX - SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
92.      I am satisfied that the proposed Interest Support Loan of USO1500
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and would be
consistent with the approved guidelines for Bank support of DDSR programs. I
therefore recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Interest
Support Loan on the terms and conditions proposed (paras. 67-71).
93.      I further recommend that the Executive Directors approve the release
of set aside funds amounting up to US$285m equivalent from the Structural
Adjustment Loan, Trade Policy Loan, Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, and/or
Public Enterprise Reform Loan to be used to finance collateral required by the
Plan on the terms and conditions proposed (paras. 63-66).
94.      Finally, in order to make possible the provision of collateral
required by the Plan, I recommend that the Executive Directors consent to the
request by GOV for waiver of the negative pledge restrictions in the Bank's
loan agreements with the Republic of Venezuela to the extent and based on the
conditions proposed (paras. 72-74).
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, DC.
November 28, 1990



- 35 _
ANIEX I
Table A.1 - The Structv-g of Venezuela's External Debt
(in US$ millions)
End-1986             End-1989
Total External Debt                          34,637               33,144
Public and Publicly Guaranteed               25,368               27,405
Official                                        390                3,024
World Bank                                     22                  115
IDB & Other Multilaterals                      76                  443
Bilateral                                     252                  399
IMP                                             0                  998
FARIBIS                                        40                1,069
Commercial                                   24,978               24,381
Commercial Banks                           22,235               20,746
Restructured in 1986 Agreement                -               18,900
Non-restructured                                               1,890
Interim Financing (1989)                      0                  400
Bonds                                           926                1,486
Suppliers                                     1,817                2,149
Private Non-Guaranteed                        9,269                5,739
Medium- and long-term                     7,734                4,523
Short-term trade credit                   1,535                1,216



- 36-                                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA
STANDARD TABE
galance of PaVmmts S_ry at Current Prices
(in millions of US dollars)
1979     19J0    1981      1962     1983     1964     198      1986     198?     1988      1969
Exports of NF3S                   14959    19968   2936    1755?   15Q4    1676         15275     9492    11428    11t052    14105
Nerchandiw (FOB)                 14159    19051    199      16332   14571    157       148       635    10437   10082       1292
Non-factor srvices                600       917      975    1225      1270      55       m        95t      991      970      1113
Iworts of ONFS                   14199    15130    17103    19634    9090    9678       9544    10014    11108    14943       9116
Merchandie (FO)                  1004    10677    12123   1S584       o09      7246      501     76        0      12080      7134
Non-factor srvices               4195    4253       4980     6050    281       232      2043 M   2146     23       26        1982
Resource btlnce* 760    4838    33                           -7        651      66       5731     -522      320   -3891       4989
Net factor Incme                     .3      329      574    `1530   -2113   .2062    233    -1602    -1619         1M       -2306
Factor reeI1pts                   136    2264       5581    2565      1500    2097      1914     1761     145S     1653      1S67
Fector pymnts                    1349      1935    3007    4095    3613    4159    4147          3363     3074     3424      3873
Totat interest                   824      3063     314      3S26    3015      269      3307     3085     2747    3128       3186
Interest Arrears (stock)           0        0         0       0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0
Other Factor Payments             525    -1130     -167      569      59      1290      U40      278      327      296       687
Met current transfers             -388    -418       -383     *615    -187    -144       -147     -102      -73     *123      -171
Current Reeopts                      1        0        0        0        0       60       66       78      13S       80       197
Workers remittances                ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Other eurr. trasfers               ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Current Payents                    389      418      33       615      107      204      2ii      180      208      203       368
Curr.A/C sal before Off. Grants    369    4749       4026   -4222      4451     4679    33S      *2226    -1372     S78S      2512
All Off.  rants                   -19       -21      -26      -24      -24      -28      -24      -19      -18      -24       -16
Curr.A/C lal after Off. Grants     350    4728    4000   -4246    4427    4651           3327   -2245    -1390    -S809       2496
LT Capital Inflams n.e.1.          1431     206C      810    3051      2a4      -426     -745    -1986    -1732   -1122        236
Direct Invsstmnt                    88       Si      184      253       86       18       68       16       21       89       213
Net LT Borrawing (DRS)            3751     1789    1466       695     1362    -4S5      -669    -1537    -1603     -668       501
disbursemets                     6038    4761      3990    3109    3002       1423      328      481      522     1762      1239
rPayments                        228      2972     2524    241S    1640       1878      997    2018      212S     2430       738
Other LT Inftlos (net)           -2408      236    -U37      2139    -1124       11    -144       44      -1S0    .543       -478
Total Other item  (Net)            2317   -3025    -481    -665    -4379    -2583    -1289         -93     1494     2285    -2614
Not short-tem cpital              1820   -1896   -2692   -4519    -4114    -1326        -311      894     1999   -1337    .3967
Interest Arrears (not fltw         0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
other Not ST Capital             1820   -1896   -2692   -4579   -4114   -1326          -311      894     1909    -1337    -3967
Capital flowsn.e..                    0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Errors and emissions               497   -1129   -2140    -386         *265    -1257    -978    -987       -505     3622      1353
Changes In not reserves          -4098    -3           21    8160      -332    -1642   -1294      4324     1628    466        -119
Net credit frm IhF                  ..       .        .                           0        0        0        .        0       998
Reserve chaqes n..i.             -4098   -3763        21        8160   332    -1642   -1294    4324       16i8     446      -111t
Escrw Account                       ..       ..       .                          .        ..       .        ..
Gross Reserves tCold. Gold)        7320    6604      8164    6579    7JI       8901    10251    6437       5963     3092      410e
Gross Reserves (mncd. Cold)       13188    13360    12720    11815    12015   12434    13996    10917    11511      t793      8702
Exdbig  Rates:
NOm. Off. (Am. svg.)(rf)         4.29    4.29    4.29    4.29    4.30          7.02     7.50    8.08    14.50    14.S0      34.68
No.. Off. (End-of-yesr)(ao)      4.29    4.29    4.29    4.29    4.30    7.50    7.S0    14.50    14.50    14.50            43.08
lN-Nwwf. Unit Value Idex            ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Index Reat Eff.(INF)            91.7   100.00   111.9   121.09   110.29    93.59    89.8t    75.06    53.76    59.98        51.01
..................................................................................................................................
21-Nov-90
06:22 pN



- 37                                      ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
VENEZUELA
STANDARD TASLE
gat fnal Accdimts Sumry Ot COnstant 1964 PrIes
(In billions of natinal cure.)
19rs    1980    1981    1982    1        1984    1965    1986    198?    1s98       1989
t   wsvoo.*Z* .....................................  ... rw.............................................
GOP at arket prces             461.6   *40.9   439.    430.3   414.2   M20.1   420.9   448.3   464.3   491.4    450.4
Net Indirect T7es               12.4    11.8    11.0    12.4    24.2    24.9    27.5    16.3   2".6    14.?          14.4
GOP at factor coat             449.2   429.1   428.4   418.0   390.0   395.2   393.4   432.0   436.6   476.7    436.0
Agricutture                     20.5    a 20.9   s2    21.2    21.3    21.S    23.3    3.1    26.1    27.3          25.9
Indstry                        208.0   197.1   193.2   115.7   1n5.9   169.2   167.3   201.4   209.1         .s    202.9
Nining and quarryin            8A.4    M.8    19.7    71.5    67.0    67.4    61.1    6.6    70.6    74.2           74.9
mamufaturinn                   7S.2a    5.1    73.2    76.2    74.9    89.9    94.4   101.1   103.6   110.8        98.3
Services, ate.                 233.1   222.9   225.8   223.4   217.0   209.4   210.4   221.7   229.J   241.5    221.6
Imports of ONFS                 73.6    72.8    81.2    94.7    44.7    69.0    65.3    65.9    67.        60.1     52.4
Exports of GUFS                144.3   120.4   113.7   103.2   100.1   115.9   114.5  12.6   126.4   136.4    144.7
Resource batance                70.7    47.6    32.5      8.5    55.4    46.9    49.2    62.7    5.1    56.4        92.3
Totat Expenditures             390.9   393.3   407.0   421.8   356.8   373.2   371.7   385.6   405.2   435.0    358.1
Total conswuption, *tc         267.1   289.4   303.2   311.2   304.2   299.6   295.1   305.4   313.8   329.7    308.6
General goverment               41.0    42.5    4.8    44.4    43.2    43.3    42.7    45.0    46.5    51.6         so.7
Private, etc                   226.1   246.9   256.4   266.8   261.0   256.3   252.5   260.5   267.3  M2.           257.9
Statisticat discrepancy       -21.6    .1.1      4.5    13.5    -3.8      0.0    *4.3    -3.5    *6.8    -9.8    -11.3
Gross domestic investmnt       123.    103.9   103.8   110.6    S4.6    73.       76.6    80.1    91.4   105.4      49.5
GDfI                          113.3    96.8    99.?    96.0    70.7    67.3    n1.?    78.0    78.5    85.4         63.0
Nonfinancial Pub. Sector     48.2    47.0    59.8    48.5    52.7        ..      ..       ..
Gewral Government             ..       ..      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..       ..
Centrat Govt.                ..      ..      ..       ..      ..      ..       ..      ..
State erd Local Govt.       ..       ..      ..       ..      ..      ..       ..      ..
Nonfinancial Pub. Enterp.     ..       ..      ..       ..     ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
Private Sactor               65.1    49.8    40.0    30.5    16.0                    ..       ..      ..
Ctarws in Stocks                10.5     ?.1      4.0    14.6   -16.1      6.2     4.9     2.1    13.0    19.9    -13.s
Net factor incom                 0.0     2.0      3.1    *.9    10.2   -14.2   -14.5   .10.9   -13.3   -12.8    -24.4
llet current trasfers           -2.7    -2.S    .2.1    -3.2    -0.9    -1.0    -1.0    -0.6    -0.6    -0.8         -1.6
Gross natioal product          461.S   442.9   442.6   422.4   404.0   405.9   406.4   437.4   451.1   478.6    426.0
Gross domlstic saving          127.7   127.2   122.0   100.6    57.8   120.4   114.8    76.8    93.1    85.1         85.1
Gross national sving           12S.0   126.8   123.0    E9.5    76.7   105.4    99.7    65.5    78.8    71.5        59.4
Capacity to inport              77.S    96.1    99.4   864.7       .9   115.9   103.6    42.6    69.0    S9.8       88.0
term of trade adjustatn        -46.8   -24.3   -14.3    18.S   -22.2       0.0   -10.9  -46.0   -S.4   *76.6    -56.7
Gross domestic income          394.8   416.6   42S.2   411.8   392.0   42.1   410.0   362.3   40?.0   414.8    393.8
Gross national inc             394.8   418.6   428.3   403.9   381.8   405.9   395.5   371.4   393.?   402.0    369.4
21-Nov-90
06:22 PN



- 38 -                             ANNEX 3
Debt and Debt Service with and without Financing Plan   Page 1 of 4
Old Loans
*  Principal  Principal  Interest    Debt
*            Repayment Payments  Service
.
Year
1990 *      19525          0      1769      1769
1991 *      19525          0      1769      1769
1992 *      19525          0      1769      1769
1993 *      19525          0      1769      1769
1994 *      19525          0      1769      1769
1995 6      19525          0      1769      1769
1996 *      19525          0      1769      1769
1997 *      19525       1953      1769      3722
1998 *      17573      1953       1593      3545
1999 *      15620      1953       1416      3368
2000 *      13668       1953      1239      3191
2001 *      11715       1953      1062      3014
2002 *       9763       1953       885      2837
2003 '       7810       1953       708      2660
2004 *       5858       1953       531      2483
2005 0       3905       1953       354      2306
2006 *       1953       1953       177      2129
2007            0          0         0         0
2008            0          0         0         0
2009 *          0          0         0         0
2010 *          0          0         0         0
2011 *          0          0         0         0
2012 *          0          0         0         0
2013 *          0          0         0         0
2014 *          0          0         0         0
2015 e0                    0         0         0
2016 *          0          0         0         0
2017            0          0         0         0
2018            0          0         0         0
2019            0          0         0         0
2020 e



- 39 -
Debt and Debt Service with and without Financing Plan  ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
Cash Flow under DOSR Package
(effective April 1st, 1990)
*00  O*0aaa*aO.aaeaw***a.aaaag*a..a. *.aa.aa                           ..aa............................*
Debt Service WB,IMF    Use of    New    Income  Adjustment
on Bonds  and JEXIM  Reserves   Money    from    for late    Total
*                                        Collateral  closing
Year
1990 *      1390         2     1543      -600                360     2696
1991 *      1386       55         0      -300      -60      -254      827
1992 ^      1442        55        0      -300      -60                1138
1993 *      1442        55        0                -60                1438
1994 *      1472        55        0                -60                1467
1995 *      1534      233         0               -270                1497
1996 *      1534       125        0                -60                1599
1997 *      2575       118        0                -60                2634
1998 *      2481       111        0                -60                2532
1999^       23C6       104        0                -60                2430
2000 *      2291        97        0                 -60               2329
2001 *      2196        19        0                 -60               2156
2002 *      2102        i 8       0                 -60               2060
2003 *      2007        17        0                 - 60              1964
2004 *      1912        16        0                 -60               1868
2005 *      1667        15        0                 -60               1622
2006 *      1586         0        0                 -60               1526
2007 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2008 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2009 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2010 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2011 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2012 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2013 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2014 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2015 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2016 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2017 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2018 *       613         0        0                 -60                554
2019 *       562         0        0                 -60                502
2020           0         0        0                 -15                -15



- 40 -                             NEX 3
Debt and Debt Servco with and without Financino Plan  Page 3 of 4
Chage In Cash Flow    Chan In Cah FPow       Chang* In Debt S6lce
(all cost upfront)    to creditor Banks
****9* *aO*O**-* *---*ea.*aa aa.aeaaaa**aa*a*a*-a**a-**--**-** aa***-*-*a*
*                     e
Nominal    Real   *  Nominal    Real         Nominal    Real
*                     a
Year                      *                     *
1990     -926   -926           - 1594  -1594            619   619
1991      942    918             938   913              938   913
1992      632    599    *        627   595    *         627   595
1993      332    302    *        327   296    *         327   298
1994      302    262    *        298   258              298   258
1995      273    225    ^        236    195    *        236   196
1996      170    136    *        236    188    *        236   188
1997     1088    840    *       1146   885             1146   885
1998     1013    759    *       1064   798             1064   798
1999      938    683    *        982   716    *         982   715
2000      862    609             900   635    *         900   635
2001      8568   585    *        818   558    *         818    58
2002      777    512    *        736   485    *         738   485
2003      696    443             653   416              653   416
2004      615    378    *        571    351             571   351
2005      684    407             639   380              839   380
2008      603    346    *        543   312    *         543   312
2007     -554   -307   *        -613   -340   *        -613   -340
2008     -554   -297   *        -613   -329    *       -613   -329
2009     -554   -287   *        -613    318    *       -613   -318
2010     -554   -277    '       -613   -307            -613   -307
2011     -554   -268   *        -813   -297    *       -613   -297
2012     -554   -259   *        -613   -286    *        613   -286
2013     -664   .250   *        -613   -277    *       -613   -277
2014     -554   -241    *       -613   -267   *        -613   -287
2015     -554   -233   *        -613   -258    *       -813   -258
2016     -554   -225            -613   -250    *       -613   -250
2017     -554   -218    -       -613   -241            -613   -241
2018     -554   -210   *        -613   -233            -613   -233
2019     -502   -184   *        -562   -206    *       -613   -225
2020       i5      5     *         0    0      *      -9270  -3288



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
Effects of Financing Plan
Discount Rates
U1BOR+13/18%      10% Real
Present Value of:
Debt Service (and Cash Flow) under Eligible Debt                        19525           14846
Overall Cash Flow under Financing Plan                                  16379           12192
Overall Cash Flow Savings under Financing Plan                           3146            2454
Net Debt Service to Creditor Banks under the Plan                       15690           10987
(excluding value of oil warrants)
Change in Net Debt Service to Creditor Banks under the Plan              3835            3659
(as % of present value of Initial debt)                       20%             26%
Expected Value of Payments under Oil Warrants                              331            221
Debt Service to Creditor Banks under the Plan
(Including value of all warrants)                         16021           11207
Change In Net Debt Service to Creditor Banks under the Plan              3504            3438
(as % of present vatue of Inltfal debt)                       18%;           23%
Notes:
1. The figures in this tabe assume rescheduling wlth 17 years tenor and 7 years of grace In the absence
of the Financing Plan
2. The expected value of payments under the wants are equal to about 3.6% and 2.4% of the face value
of the loans, when evaluated at discount rates equal to LIBOR+13116% and 10% real rspectvely,



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
VENEZUELA: Medium-Term Projections Under Alternative Oil Scenarios
1.       Projections of the Venezuela economy are highly dependent on the oil prices and production
assumptions. This Annex presents three alternative oil scenarios. For each scenario, the 1990 oil sector
assumptions are the same: the average OPEC price is estimated to be about US$22 per barrel (bbl); the
average price received by Venezuela for its crude and product exports is US$21.09/bbl; and the average
daily export volume, 1.846 million barrels per day (mbd). The export volume figure reflects the
assumption that during the five months from August-December 1990, Venezuelan total production would
average 2.280 mbd, a monthly average increase of 0.180 mId above the average level for the first seven
months of 1990. For 1991 and beyond, the key oil sector assumptions for each scenario are:
Scenario A: Oil prices from 1991 onward follow e path recently adopted as a basic scenario by
the Bank's Planning Assumption Committee. Under this scenario, the OPEC average price in 1991
Is $23.8, declining to $20.5 in 1992 and $18.5 in 1993. Given these price levels, it is assumed that
Venezuelan total production of crude increases in 1991 to 2.475 mbd, declines in 1992 to 2.30 mbd,
but remains well above the projected levels assumed prior to the Gulf crisis, even after prices return
to approximately their pre-crisis path.
Scenario B: Oil prices from 1991 follow the path recently adopted as the low case by IEC. In this
scenario, the OPEC average price drops to $15 in 1991 and $14 in 1992 and then recovers slowly.
In this case, Venezuela is assumed to reduce its total output level to 2.1 mbd in 1991-93, which is
about the pre-crisis level, after whioch it would grow at 3.3% per annum as originally projected.
Scenario C:  OPEC average oil prices remain high in 1991 and 1992 before returning to
approximately the pre-crisis path while Venezuelan total production of crude in 1991-93 remains
about at the level achieved at end-1990 (2.475 mbd). Starting in 1994, output grows slowly from
this level.
2.        Under each scenario it is assumed that Venezuela will continue broadly to maintain a policy
environment as described in Part II of this Report, which stimulates domestic savings and investment and
provides an appropriate incentive structure for increasingly efficient investment by both the public and
private sectors. It is further assumed that non-oil GDP growth in Venezuela is constrained by internal
capacities to about 6% per annum and that swings in oil revenues will be largely absorbed by changes
in international reserves so as to smooth the path of investment and import growth and provide insurance
against future declines in oil revenues. However, the real value of the market-determined unified
exchange rate will be affected to some extent by the level of oil revenues; that is, the Central Bank will
not fully sterilize fluctuations in oil revenues, so that the bolivar would appreciate somewhat under higher
oil price scenarios. This would slow the rate of growth of non-oil exports and accelerate the rate of
growth of imports in scenarios with higher oil prices.



- 43 -
ANNEX4
Page 2 of 3
With and Without the Financing Plan
3.       All three scenarios are projected with and without the Financing Plan in place. In the absence
of the Plan, it is assumed that private and foreign sector confidence in the economy diminishes, resulting
in lower external capital inflows (direct foreign investment (DFI) and capital repatriation) associated with
lower investment growth. Losses in foreign exchange in the absence of the Plan are divided between
changes in imports and changes in international reserves. In other words, it is assumed that some
measure of protection against future oil revenue declines would be sacrificed in order to preserve imports
and growth. In all scenarios, Net International Reserves (NIR) are not permitted to fall below the
equivalent of six months of imports of GNFS.
4.       In Scenario A, non-oil GDP growth during the next nine years declines from 6.0% p.a. with
the Plan to an average of 5.7% without the Plan. This lower growth arises from a lesser degree of
confidence in the economy, reflected in a 25% decline in DFI and capital repatriation, and resulting in
lower growth in private investment in 1991 and 1992. Gjrowth in public investment declines in 1991 and
1992 as more resources are diverted to external interest payments. Starting in 1993, public and private
investment attain the same growth rate as with the Plan but on a lower path. The overall impact over
the decade is relatively modest as high oil revenues provide a comfortable level of international reserves
throughout the period in both cases. By the year 2000, real private consumption per capita will be higher
in 'with Plan" scenario by 1.9%, and international reserves will be higher, providing greater protection
against future adverse developments.
5.       For Scenario B, the sharp decline in oil revenues will reduce the inflow of foreign exchange,
reducing reserves and increasing uncertainty with respect to the sustainability of external balance. The
latter will be reflected in lower investment levels, which will drive the economy to a lower growth path.
Under the "without Plan" case, these adversities are magnified causing a more negative impact on the
economy: compared with the with Plan scenario, DFI and capital repatriation fall by 50% throughout
the decade; and private investment declines sharply in 1993, remains constant in 1994, but continues
growmg at about 15% thereafter. With higher external interest payments and a need to maintain fiscal
discipline, public investment growth falls to negative rates in 1992 and 1993 but increases to about 12.0%
thereafter. Consequently, non-oil GDP from 1991 to 2000 grows at an annual average of 4.5% without
the Plan compared to 5.2% with the Plan. By the year 2000, real private consumption and GDP per
capita without the Plan will be 7.3% and 6.1% lower than with the Plan and international reserve levels
would be lower.
6.       In Scenario C, non-oil GDP growth during the next nine years declines from 6.1% p.a. to
an average of 5.9% in the absence of the Plan. This slighdy lower growth arises from a lesser degree
of confidence in the economy without the Plan, reflected, as in Scenario A, in a 25% decline in DFI and
capital repatriation resulting in lower growth in private investment in 1991 and 1992. Public investment
declines in 1991 as more resources are diverted to external interest payments. Starting in 1993, public
and private investment attain the same growth rate as in the with Plan case but at a lower path. This



-44 -
ANNEX 
Pag 3 of 3
scenio assumes a shaper appreciation in the real exchange than In Scenario A, blnMg slower growth
in naexports and higher imports. The overall  act over te decade is relavly modest as
high oil revenues provido sufficient foreig exchange and a more comftable leve of reserves throghout
the period. By the year 2000. both real GDP and private consumption per capita will be higer In the
with Plan scenario by 1.4%.



VWJEZUELA - Malor Nacroeconcidc Indicators
......... ............... ...................... ........................ ...... .
Oil Scenario A - With Financing Plan
1988       1989     1990      1991      1992      1993      19S       1995      1996     1997      1995
Average Venetuela Export Oilt Price  (USS/bt.)         13.32      16.67    21.09    22.71       19.57    17.57    18.67      19.97    21.71    2358    25.62
lon-Oil GDP  (growth rate)                               5.3X    -10.6X       1.3X      S.0O      6.0X     6.0X      6.0X      6.0X      6.0X      6.0X      6.0X
Private Consuwption per Capita  (growth rate)            1.71     -10.2X    -5.0X    -1.1X        2.1X     2.OX      3.4X      3.6X      3.5X      3.01      3.6X
Totat Fixed Investment/GDP  (current prices)            20.4X      16.5X     16.01     19.3X    23.01    24.71    25.11    25.2X    25.4          25.0      25.JZ
Private                                              10.8X       7.81      S.41      7.51    10.71    12.21    12.6X    12.8X    12.91    13.0X    13.11
Pubtic                                                9.oX       8.71     10.61     11.8%     12.3K     12.5X    12.5X    12.5X    12.6K       12.71     12.0X
Balance of Payments  (USS millions)
....... ...............  
Current Account
..... ........ ..  
Current Account Balance                          -5785.1    2512.0   6357.2   8440.1   3294.5   1034.6   1077.9   1425.8   2130.5   27rs.8   3594.1
Exports Goods & Services                         12704.9   15672.0  20410.6  24932.0  22410.9  22614.7  24943.7  27528.1  30601.0  33925.1  37802.3
laports Goods & Services                         18367.0   12989.0  13862.4  16301.9  18913.4  21358.2  23620.8  25839.3  28200.5  30837.3  33574.2
Interest Pasyents                               3083.5    3619.4   3114.4   2287.7   2S86.0   2602.8   2716.0   2863.S   292.3   3082.8   30?1.9                 .
o/w comerciat banks                           2012.8    2219.0   2048.1   1104.0   1339.1   1267.9   1285.8   1329.8   1325.3   1312.1   123I86               u'
Capital Account
Direct foreign Investment                           89.0      213.0    412.0    700.0    775.o    375.0    600.0    800.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0
Net  ed1iua & Long Term Dlsursements               -31.7    -193.5    426.7   -219.0    237.3    942.3   1117.5   U362.4   1288.4    109.6   -422.5
Short Term Capital                                 600.0   -3483.0  -1864.3   -279.3    853.3    427.8    220.2    -96.8    -81.3   -112.6   -119.7
Projected Capital Repatriation                                                    750.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0
let Internationat Reserves                          5824.0    S891.0   8100.6  16703.5  21958.5  24660.2  27564.8  31173.2  X5419.9  39096.6  43047.5
Gross Liquid Operatiqnal Reserves                   2044.3    3184.0   5096.6   8287.5  13417.7  15762.9  18311.1  21562.9  25453.1  28773.4  32367.7
.................................
Debt & Debt Ratios
..................
Debt Service Payments (USS millions) 1/             4988.3    4805.1   4925.6   3388.0   3416.6   4147.1   4113.6    421.5   5070.9   653.3   696?.5
Debt Service/Exports Goods & Services                 39.3 X  30.71    24.1    13.6           15.2X    18.3       16.51     17.2X     16.6X1     9.0X     18.6
Debt Service/GOP                                       8.3X    11.01       10.S5       6.5      6.41     7.21      6.3       6.4       6.21      7.01      6.6
Putiic Debt Service/Fiscal Revewas                    23.8       31.1X    28.9X    19.91      16.91     16.21     14.21     1S.11     14.51     16.81     16.53
,,,_. ........ .................. . . .. .. .... ... ... ..._ ... ..           . ..... ... ... .... . ... . . .. . . .. ._ .. . ..... . ... .
20-IoV-9
1/ Includes INF Resources                                                                                                                               11:05 AN



VENEZUELA - Major Macroeconomic Indicators
........ ............. .. ...... ........ .... .... 
Oil Scenario A - without Financing Plan
..... ...... ..... ........ ... ... . .... 
1988      t989      1990     t991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1996
.. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. ... . ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ._........................... .. . .......... . ..... .. ..... ...... ... .. ..... ........ .... ...... .. .._.............
Average Venezuela Export Oil Price (USS/bI.)          13.32     16.67    21.09    22.71      19.57    17.58    18.68    19.98    21.71    23.59    25.63
Non-Oil GOP (growth rate)                              5.3X    -10.6X       1.3X     5.0X      5.8X     5.7X      5.7X     5.7X      5.7X     5.7%      S.7S
Private Consunptian per Capita (growth rate)            1.7X    -10.2X    -5.0X      O.1X      2.4X     1.7X      2.9X     3.1X      3.02     3.32      3.21
Total Fixed Investment/GDP (current prices)           20.4X      16.5X     16.02    18.62    21.7%     23.32    23.8X    24.0X      24.22    24.5X     24.7S
Private                                             10.8X      7.82      5.4X     7.1X      9.82    11.22    11.6X    11.82    11.92    12.02    12.1S
Pubtic                                              9.62       8.7%    10.62    11.42    11.91    12.1X    12.2X       12.22     12.32    12.4X     12.62
Balance of Payments  (USS millions)
..... ...... ... ... ..
Current Account
Current Account Balance                         -5785.1    2512.0   6395.9   7834.9   3116.3    857.3    968.0   1441.9   229.5   29.8.7   3902.S
Exports Goods & Services                        12704.9   ¶5672.0  20410.6  24959.0  22351.1  22470.1  24766.8  27342.9  30385.4  33702.S  37184.5
Irports Goods & Services                       18367.0   12989.0  13823.7  16934.1  19031.8  21390.8  23553.9  25638.0  27905.9  30441.7  32948.1
Interest Payments                             3083.5    3619.4   3075.7   2919.9   2887.4   2898.4   2988.9   3086.2   3207.0   3320.5   3202.3 3
o/1 co wercial banks                         2012.8    2219.0   2018.8   1789.8   1694.0   1616.0   1610.9   1606.1   1601.6   1596.0   1411.3             '
Capital Account
Direct Foreign Investment                          89.0     213.0    412.0    675.0    731.3    281.3    450.0    600.0    750.0    750.0    750.0
Net ladiiu. & La  Term Disbursements              -31.7    -193.5   -443.3   -432.2       14.9    914.5   1076.3   1367.4   1313.7  -1072.1  -1584.5
Short Term Capital                               600.0   -3483.0  -1864.3   -279.3    853.3    426.5    218.7    -98.6    -83.6   -126.4   -135.2
Projected Capital Repatriation                                                 562.5    750.0    750.0    750.0    750.0    750.0    750.0    750.0
Net International Reserves                        5824.0    5891.0   9519.6  17091.7  21186.4  23338.0  25719.0  28693.7  32542.4  34696.6  3727.4
Gross Liquid Operational Reserves                 2044.3    3184.0   6295.6   8455.7  12425.7  14248.2  16300.2  `8916.0  22465.7  24290.9  2654.6
.   ..................... ................
Debt & Debt Ratios
................ .................
Debt Service Payments (USS  illions)  1/           4988.3    4805.1   488.9   4020.2   3718.0   4415.3   4352.7   4853.0   5189.0   7807.7   W4.7
Debt Service/Exports Goods & Services                39.32     30.72    23.92     16.12    16.62    19.62    17.62    17.72       17.11    23.2X     22.11
Debt Service/GDP                                     8.32      11.0    10.42      7.72      7.02     7.7X      6.7X     6.7S      6.4X      S.62     6.12
Public Debt Service/Fiscal Revenues                 23.82      31.1X    28.7X    23.5X    18.4%      17.5%     15.31    15.6%     14.91    21.2X    20.21
20-Nov-90
1/ Includes IEF Resources                                                                                                                          02:53 PN



VENEZUELA - NaJor Macroeconomic Indicators
.......................................... ............................................ .
Ofl Scenrfro B -11th Financing Plan
....................................
1988       t989       1990       1991      1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       199T      1
........................................ .................................................................................. ................................................................. ........................................  ..
Average Venezwela Export Oft Price  (USSfbI.)               13.32       16.67     21.09      14.5S     13.61      14.66      15.66     16.67      18.65      21.31     24.09
Non-Oil GDP  (growth rate)                                    5.3X     -10.6X       1.3X       S.03      6.03       5.4X       4.8       4.7X      4.83       5.0%       S.2X
Private Cxnswption per Capita  (growth rate)                  1.7X     -10.23      -5.0       1.0X      2.0X       4.8       2.53       1.6X      1.02       1.6X       1.4
Total fixed Investment/GDP  (current prices)                20.4X       16.53      16.03      19.83     21.03      20.2X      20.03     20.43      21.4X      22.4X     23.73
Private                                                  10.83        7.83       5.43       7.7X      8.93       9.23      9.23       9.5S      10.23      10.9X     11.73
PubtIc                                                    9.63        8.73      10.63      12.13     12.13      11.03      10.83     10.83      11.23      11.5S     12.13
Balance of Payments   (USS millions)
. ..................
Current Account
........ ..............
Current Account Balance                              -578S.1      2512.0    6357.2    -167.6   -1606.2   -1630.1   -1488.7   -1350.4    -633.0            74.3     803.1
Exports Goods 8 Services                             12704.9    15672.0   20410.6   16374.8  1683.9   18133.8   19977.5   21932.3   24792.6   27987.3   31SS2.5
Imports Goods A Servfces                             18367.0    12989.0   13862.4   16352.4   18087.1   19541.9   21221.2   23019.7   251SS.6   27601.0   3033S.4
Interest Payments                                   3083.5     3619.4    3114.4    2338.3    2709.3    2744.1    2842.6    2963.1    3045.9    3109.8    3073.0
o/w commercial banks                              2012.8     2219.0    2048.t    t104.0    1339.1    1267.9    t285.8    1329.8    1325.3    1312.1    1238.6              4'
-J
Capital Account
...............
Direct Foreign Investment                               89.0       213.0      412.0     700.0      775.0      375.0     600.0      800.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0
Net Medium & LEong Term Disbursements                  -31.7      -193.5      426.7    -219.0      225.1      8M8.3     988.0    1171.7    1112.0         36.6    -3S4.5
Short Term Capital                                     600.0    -3483.0   -1864.3       757.9      46S.1      224.9     251.2      -46.6      -86.5    -147.4    -144.6
Projected Capital Repatrfation                                                          750.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0    1000.0
Met lnternational Reserves                              5824.0      5891.0    8100.6    9133.0    9087.0    8867.1    9106.S    9798.4   11099.9   11967.S   13250.5
Gross Liquid Operational Reserves                       2044.3      3184.0    5096.6    8205.2    8850.2    8273.8    8006.4    8116.3    883S.8    9121.4    9622.4
.......................... .......
Debt & Debt Ratios
..................
Debt Service Payments (USS millions)  11                4988.3      4805.1    4925.6    3438.6    3539.9    4248.5    4390.7    5022.1    5276.4    6542.5    6988.8
Debt Service/Exports Goods & Services                     39.33       30.7X      24.13      21.03     21.23      23.63      22.03     22.9S      21.33      23.4S      22.11
Debt Service/GDP                                            8.33       11.03     10.53       7.8X       7.43      8.1X       7.6X       7.9X      7.6X       6.6"       6.4"
P"liC Oebt Service/Fiscal Revenues                        23.8X       3t.1X      28.93      23.73     23.8X      21.23      19.6X     20.83      19.23      21.23     20.1X
~~~~~~ *- .-.-..........,. ,,,,,.. , , , .,,,. _ , .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .
1/ Includes IMF Resources                                                                                                                                          2i1o490



VENEZUELA  -   ajor Macroeconomic IndIcators
Oil Scenario 8 - Without Financing Plen
1988       1989      1990       199       1992      1993       1994      199S      1996       1997      1998
,,,........ . .. .. ......................... ............................................................................ ..................................................................................................... _.__.._.
Avere Venewzuela Export Oil Price  (USS/bl.)              13.32      16.67      21.09     14.55     13.61      14.66     15.67     16.68      18.87     21.33     24.11
Mon-Oil GDP  (growth rate)                                  5.3X     -10.62       1.3X      5.0X      5.8X      4.7X       3.7X      3.5X      3.6X       4.2X      4.5X
Private Consmption per Capita  (growth rate)                1.72     -10.2X      -S.02      2.22      4.12      5.72       1.42     -0.42      -1.62      0.02      0.2
Total Fixed Investment/G0P  (current prices)              20.4X       16.5X      16.0X     19.02     18.3X      15.32     14.7X     1S.52      17.8X     19.42     21.tX
Private                                                 10.82       7.8X      5.42       r.32      7.7X      6.62       6. 1      6.8X      8.2X       9.1X     10.tO
P"blic                                                  9.62        8.7X     10.62      11.72     10.6"      8.7X       8.4X      8.7X      9.6X      10.42     11.12
8alance of Payments  (USS millions)
...................
Current Account
...............
Current Accouat Balance                            -5785.1      2512.0    6395.9    -7*2.7   -1608.9   -897.6    -270.1        215.3     883.6    1784.3    2898.0
exports Goods & Services                           12704.9    15672.0   204t0.6  t6401.9   16606.6   t7969.9   19849.9   ns808.   24850.5  28145.6  S1741.7
tlparts Goods & Services                           18367.0    12989.0   13823.7   16984.6   18012.5   18645.4   19875.0   21420.5   23696.9  26049.3   2809i.?
Interest Payments                                 3083.S     3619.4    3075.7    2970.4    3010.7   3039.1    3112.0    3175.2    3248.4    3313.5    3162.3           4-
o/v commercfat banks                            2012.8      2219.0    2018.8    1789.8    1694.0    1616.0    1610.9    1606.1    1601.6    1S98.0    1411.3         oD
Capital Account
...............
Oirect Foreign Inwstment                              89.0       213.0     412.0     650.0      687.5     187.S      300.0     400.0     SOO.0      500.0     500.0
Net Medium & Long Term Disbursements                 *31.7      *193.5   -443.3    -432.2        -3.8     830.5     87S.3    1057.3    1013.6   *1220.6   *t484.9
Short Term Capital                                   600.0    -3483.0   -1864.3      757.9      46S.l     222.7      246.9     -51.9     -93.S    -160.3    -167.4
Projected Capital Repatriation                                                        375.0     500.0     500.0      500.0    SO0.0      500.0      500.0     500.0
Net International Reserves                            5824.0      5891.0    9519.6    9308.7    7977.8    7742.9    8313.1    9347.7   11060.5   11367.9   12512.6
Gross Liquid Operational Reserves                     2044.3      3184.0    6295.6    8160.9    7521.0   6957.1    7048.0    7528.1    8686.4    8439.3    9029.S
................................ .
Debt * Debt Ratios
.................. 
Debt Service Payments (USS millfons)  11              4988.3      4805.1    4886.9   4070.7    3841.3    4556.0   4626.2    5130.3   5325.3    7773.S    8043.3
Debt Service/Exports Goods & Services                   39.3X       30.7X     23.9X      24.8X     23.12     25.42      23.3X     23.4X      21.4X     2?.62     25.3X
Debt Service/GDP                                          8.32      11.02     10.42       9.2X      8.12      8.72       8.12      8.3X       7.9X     10.6"     10.2X
Public Debt Service/Fiscal Revenues                     23.82       31.12     28.72      27.82     25.9X     23.02      21.12     21.7X      19.6"     26.42     24.0X
,,,,,................,,.,,,,.,,.........................................................................................................
21-Now-90
1/ Includes IMF Resources                                                                                                                                      0t:09 Pk



VENEZUELA - Major Macroeconomic Indicators
Oil Scenario C - 1ith Finasning Plan
................ ...................................
1988       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996      1997      1995
Average Venewuela Export Oil Price  MUSSMhl.)            13.32      16.67     21.09     27.86      24.36     18.91     19.67     18.47     20.37     22.17      24.36
VontOil GOP  (growth rate)                                 5.3%     -10.6%      1.3%      5.0%      5.8%       6.0%      6.0%      6.1X      6.2X      6.22       6.2X
Private Consuwption per Capita  (growth rate)              1.7%     -10.2%    -5.0X       -1.1%      0.8%      2.6X      3.6X      3.9X      4.2%      4.41       4.3X
total fixed Inmestm  nt/GDP  (current prices)             20.4%      16.5%     16.0%      19.3%     23.3%     25.4%     26.5%     26.8X     26.9X      27.11     27.3X
Private                                                10.8%       7.8X      5.4%      7.5%      10.7%     12.2%     12.62     12.81     12.8%      12.91     13.01
Pubtic                                                  9.63       8.7%     10.6"     11.8%      12.6X     13.23     13.8%     14.03     14.1%      14.2X     14.3
Balance of Pa mmnts   (USS millions)
...................
Current Account
...............
Current Account Balance                            -5785.1     2512.0    6357.2   12420.8    8248.9    2851.3    1790.3    -120.7      136.9      64.3     275.6
Exports Goods & Services                           12704.9    15672.0   20410.6   28912.7   27579.2   24844.9   26331.6   26944.9   29831.7   32687.0   35896.9
lupwrts Goods & Services                          16367.0    12989.0   13862.4   16301.9   19127.3   217M7.6  24296.3  26802.6  29424.7  32290.7  35287.3              a
Interest Pay)unts                                3083.5     3619.4    3114.4    2287.7   2586.0   2603.2   2718.1    2868.6   2990.5   3093.4    3085.0
o/w coamercial banks                           2012.8    2219.0    2048.1    1104.0    1339.1    1267.9    1285.8    1329.8    1325.3   1312.1    1236.6           .>
Capital Aeount
...............
Diecet Foreign Investment                             89.0      213.0    412.0      700.0      m.0    375.0    600.0    800.0    1000.0   1000.0   1000.0
Not Medium & Long Term Disbursements                 -31.7     -193.5    426.7   -219.0       241.5    960.4    1149.2    1392.4   1298.1         102.1    *450.2
Short Ter Capital                                    600.0   -3483.0  *1864.3    -776.9    73s.0    837.2    333.9           139.2    -92.7       *71.1     -98.5
ProJected Capital Repetriatfon                                                      750.0    10.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0    1000.0   1000.0   1000.0
Net International Reserves                            5324.0    5891.0   8100.6  20166.6  30282.0  35227.9  33990.3  41318.2  43569.5  44588.6   4521.8
Gross Lquid Operationat Reserves                      2044.3    3184.0   5096.6   11770.6  21741.2  26330.7  29736.S  31707.9  33602.0  3426.6  34535.1
Debt & Debt Ratios
..................
Debt Service Payments (USS millions)  1/              4988.3     4805.1    4925.6    3388.0    3416.6    4147.6    4115.8    4735.2    5106.7   6495.4    7032.1
Debt Service/Exports Goods & Services                   39.3X      30.7%     24.1%     11.7%      12.4X     16.7%     1S.63     1T.63     17.1X      19.91     19.1
Debt Service/GDP                                         8.3%      11.0%     10.52      6.0%      5.8%       6.8X      5.91      6.1%      5.7%      6.43       6.0X
Public Debt Service/Fiscal Revemnes                     23.8%      31.12     28.91     16.13      13.4%     14.7X     13.5X     15.5X     14.7X      16.91     16.3X
........................................................................................................ ..........................................................................................................................  
21-Noy-90
1/ Includes IMF Resources                                                                                                                                  O0:40 95



VENEZUELA - Major Macroeconomic Indicators
Oil Scenario C - Without Finncing Plan
1988      1989    1990        1991      1992      1993      1994      1995     1996      1997      998
.......................................................... .................................................................................................................. 
Average Venezuela Export Oil Price  (USS/bI.)          13.32      16.67    21.09    27.86    24.36        18.91    19.68     18.48    20.37    22.17       24.37
Mon-Oil GDP  (growth rate)                               5.3 X -10.61         1.31      5.0      5.71      5.7XS5.8X          5.96       6.01      6.01      6.01
Private Consurption per Capita  (growth rate)            1.71     -10.21    -5.01      -O.5X 1.21          2.4      X 3.31     3.51      3.96      4.11      4.01
Total Fixed Investment/UGDP  (current prices)           20.4       16.51    16.01      19.01    22.41     24.41     25.51     25.81    26.1t    26.31    26.5X
Private                                              10.81       7.81      5.41      7.1      9.71     11.11  11.61        11.71    11.81    11.9X       12.0X
Pubtlic                                               9.61       8.71    10.6      11.8X    12.71    13.31       13.91     14.1X    14.21      14.31    4.4
Balamce of Payments  (USS millions)
...................
Current Account
............... 
Current Account Balance                          -5785.1    2512.0   6390.3  11815.2   8067.3   2669.5   1666.8   -131.5    175.0    19l.9    499.3
Exports Goods & Services                         12704.9   15672.0  20410.6  28939.3  27518.7  24696.7  26147.9  26746.2  29596.2  32435.2  35536.3               1
Imports Goods & Services                         18367.0   12989.0  13829.3  16934.1  19248.4  21805.2  24236.1  26614.7  29151.2  31927.3  34703.1              _
Interest Payments                               3083.5    3619.4   3075.7   2919.9   2887.6   289.5   2992.6   3094.8   3220.8   3338.8   3222.9               0
o/w comwercial banks                          2012.8    2219.0   2018.8   1789.8   1694.0   1616.0   1610.9   1606.1   1601.6   1598.0   1411.3
Capital Account
...............
Direct Foreign Investment                           89.0      213.0    412.0    675.0    731.3    281.3    450.0    600.0    750.0    750.0    750.0
Net Medium & Long Term Dlsbursements               -31.7    -193.5   -443.3   -430.5         24.2    942.3   1126.2   1421.0   1343.2  -1082.1  -1623.0
Short Term Capital                                 600.0   -3483.0  -1864.3   -776.9    735.0    836.3    332.8    138.2    -94.3    -82.8   -111.8
Projected Capital Repatriation                                                    562.5    750.0    750.0    750.0    750.0    750.0    7S0.0    750.0
Net International Reserves                          5824.0    5891.0   9514.1   20570.5  29507.2  33908.6  37152.3  38844.0  40677.0  40112.0  39275.5
Gross Liquid Operational Reserves                   2044.3    3184.0   6290.1  11934.5  2074.S  24818.8  27733.6  29096.3  30600.3  29706.2  28540.8
.................................
Debt & Debt Ratios
.................. 
Debt Service Payments (US millions)  1/             4988.3    4805.1   4886.9   4020.2   3718.2   4416.3   4359.9   4877.1   5241.4    7866.1   8315.4
Debt Service/Exports Goods & Services                 39.3 X  30.7X  23.91    13.96    13.5             17.96    16.71    18.21       17.71    24.3X    23.41
Debt Service/GDP                                       8.31      11.01    10.41       7.21      6.31     7.21      6.31      6.31    S.96        7.81      7.21
Public Debt Service/Fiscal Revenues                   23.8      31.11    28.71    19.01    14.6X    15.96    14.S1    16.11    1S.21    21.4              20.01
21 -Nov-90
1/ Includes IMF Resources                                                                                                                               01:42PII



- 51 -
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 1
interest Support Loan
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare program: 15 months
(b)  Program prepared by: Commission of the President of the Republic for the Negotiation of
External Debt
(c)   First Presentation to Bank: April 1990
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission: n/a
(e)   Completion of Negotiation: November 1990
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness: December 1990
Section Il: Special Bank Imlementation Action
None
Section m: Special Conditions
The following have been established as conditions of effectiveness:
(a) The Government shall have concluded agreements for the exchange of debt aggregating at
least US$11.0b for Par Bonds, Discount Bonds, and FLIRBS and for new money loans
aggregating at least US$1.Ob; and
(b)  Confirming to the Bank availability of the required collateral funds.
It has been established that no withdrawals would be made from the loan account unless:
(a)   The Bank shall have approved the procedures for withdrawals and for the provision of legal
opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank on the exchange and
collateral agreements;
(b)  The Bank is satisfied with arrangements for the maintenance of the collateral.
The loan will be prepaid (without payment of premium) at the option of the Bank in the event that the
average crude oil price (West Texas Intermediate) during a twelve-month period from December 18,
1990, exceeds US$23 per barrel.



- 52 -
ANNEx 6
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN VENEZUELA
A.   StateMent of World Bank Loans and IDA Crsdits (as of September 30. 1990)
Loan or                                                    Amount (Less cancellation)
Credit   Fiscal   Borrower    Purpose                   Disbursed   Undisbursed    Total
Number  Year                                            -------- (in US$ million) ------
13  Loans fully disbursed and closed                    342.2                     342.2
3091    1989    Government   Structural Adjustment      200.0         202.0       402.0
3092    1989    Government   Trade Policy               200.0         153.0       353.0
3223    1990    Government   Public Enterprise                        350.0       350.0
3224    1990    Government   Fin. Sector Adjust.           -          300.0       300.0
3225    1990    Government   Technical Assistance          -           30.0        30.0
Total                                                   742.2       1.035.0     1.777.2
Of which has been repaid                              314.7
Amount sold                                              27.5
Of vhich has been repaid                               27.5
Total now outstanding                                   400.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          400.0
Total undisbursed                                                   1.035.0    1.035.0



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of Seotember 30. 1990)
-------US$ Million --.---
Date         Borrower            Tvoe of BAwiness              Loan      Equity     Total
1964, 1968
1971         CAVENDAS          Development Finance           17.50       1.34      18.84
1971         CONCECA           Cement & Construction
Material               2.01         -         2.01
1961         DIABLITOS         Food & Food Processing         0.50         -        0.50
1966, 1972   DOMINGUEZ         Tin Cans                       1.00       0.51       1.51
1989         OPCO              Iron & Steel                  73.13       . -       73.13
1989         PROPILVEN         Chemicals, Petro
Chemicals              47.00         -       47.00
1969. 1973   PROTINAL          Food & Food Processing         5.06                  5.06
1960, 1964   SIVENSA           Iron & Steel                   2.70       0.44       3.14
1975         SOFIMECA          Money & Capital Markets                   0.70       0.70
19?5         VALIVENCA         Money & Capital Markets         -         0.35       0.35
1987         VENCEMOS          Cement & Construction 1/
Material            10.00        -        10.00
Total Gross Commitment                                 158.90       3.34     162.25
Less Cancellations, Terminations & Sales                71.52       3.34      74.87
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                       87.38        -        87.38
Total Undisbursed (including participants)              23.63        _        23.63
Approved but unsigned:
1990         Prod. de Alcoholes
Idratados, SA                                   39.40       -        39.40
1988         La Venezolana de
Cementos Guarantee 1J                           8.20       -         8.20
1/ In addition, IFC provided a guarantee of a local bond issue for Bs400 million
(US$8.2 million equivalent).



