                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                        Report No: 28942

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (IDA-29300)

                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

                                    TO

                                   INDIA

                                  FOR A

                    ENVIRONMENTAL CAPACITY BUILDING
                      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                                 12/23/2004




Environment Unit
South Asia Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)
                          Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
                              INR 1.00 = US$ 0.0217
                              US$ 1.00 = INR 45.95

                               FISCAL YEAR
                              April 1 March 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CP       Cleaner Production
CPCB     Central Pollution Control Board
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DOD      Department of Ocean Development
EAP      Environment Action Program - India
EEIPPC   Environmental Economics, Indicators and Project Planning Cell
EIA      Environment Impact Assessment
EMCBP    Environment Management Capacity Building Project
EMP      Environment Management Plan
ENVIS    Environment Information System
GOI      Government of India
GDFE     Gujarat Department of Forests and Environment
GEC      Gujarat Ecology Commission
GPCB     Gujarat Pollution Control Board
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICMAMP   Integrated Coastal and Marine Area Management Plan
IPCP     Industrial Pollution Control Project
IPPP     Industrial Pollution Prevention Project
MOEF     Ministry of Environment and Forests
MTR      Mid Term Review
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NEAC     National Environment Awareness Campaign
NEAF     NGO Environment Action Fund
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
NLSIU    National Law School of India University
NSC      National Steering Committee
PIC      Project Implementation Cell
PMU      Project Management Unit
RRA      Regional Resource Agency
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SEAP     State Environmental Action Plan
SPCB     State Pollution Control Board
UNDP     United National Development Program
UNEP     United Nations Environment Program
                            7
crore    ten million (1x10 )
                                      5
lakh     one hundred thousand (1x10 )
                 Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
               Country Director    Michael F. Carter
                Sector Manager     Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     David Hanrahan
                              INDIA
            ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING
                   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS



                                                                             Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8 Description of Components                                                33
Project ID: P043728                                                 Project Name: ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA
Team Leader: David Hanrahan                                         TL Unit: SASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                  Report Date: December 23, 2004

1. Project Data
                 Name: ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-29300
    Country/Department: INDIA                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                Office
        Sector/subsector: Mining and other extractive (40%); Central government
                          administration (28%); Sub-national government administration
                          (15%); Other social services (9%); Law and justice (8%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Decentralization (P);
                          Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Water resource
                          management (S); Pollution management and environmental health
                          (S)

  KEY DATES                                                              Original                  Revised/Actual
        PCD: 03/01/1996                                       Effective:                           05/13/1997
    Appraisal: 03/27/1996                                         MTR:                             05/27/1999
     Approval: 12/23/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:        GOI/Ministry of Environment and Forests
                  Other Partners:        Department of Ocean Development; Government of Gujarat

STAFF                          Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:              Michael F. Carter                              Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:                Jeffrey S. Racki                               Luiz Ernesto Derbez
Team Leader at ICR:            David Hanrahan
ICR Primary Author:            David Hanrahan; Sati Achath

2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:        S
                     Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:      M
                Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:         S

                                                  QAG (if available)               ICR
                                Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the US$61.48 million project (IDA Credit SDR34.7 million) was to assist the Government
of India (GOI) to implement its environmental priorities as outlined in the Environment Action Program
(EAP) of December 1993. This objective was to be achieved by: (a) strengthening environmental policy
planning and administration; (b) decentralization of selected environmental activities to local communities
and non-governmental organizations; (c) implementation of environmental law; and (d) monitoring of
compliance with environmental laws and standards in specific high priority environmental problem areas.
The project was timely and responsive to the needs of the Borrower, given that India's rapid economic,
population, and industrial growth were causing severe pollution problems and environmental degradation in
the country and the Government was taking steps to respond. At the time of preparation of this project, the
Bank had completed an Industrial Pollution Control Project (IPCP) and commenced a subsequent Industrial
Pollution Prevention Project (IPPP). Both of these projects focused on funding pollution prevention and
control, although there was also limited technical assistance for strengthening capacity of some of the state
level regulatory agencies. The EMCB Project took up broader capacity building issues.

The EMCB Project was included in the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the CAS update
and the broad objective of the EMCBP was appropriate and timely. However, it was supporting an EAP
which was itself ambitious and very wide reaching and the project design reflected this by being over
ambitious and unduly complex, including 19 different components.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective did not fundamentally change after an early Mid Term Review (MTR) although there
was a scaling down of the ambitious scope of some of the components, with development of more realistic
implementation plans. The MTR recommended a reduction of about 30% in the size of the project,
two-thirds of which reduction was related to cutting back international consultants and training, which had
been highly over-estimated. It was accepted at that time that the basic objective could be achieved, even
with this reduction in size of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of 19 components under six thematic clusters. For details on these
components, see Annex 8. In hindsight, not only was this collection of components ambitious and over
complex, but individually many of them had broad and challenging aims without a clear vision of how these
aims could be achieved.

3.4 Revised Components:
Early progress on the project was generally slow and unsatisfactory, although a few components were
moving ahead quite well. The EMCBP was regarded as a "problem project" by Bank management
because of slow disbursement and an early MTR was carried out to address the reasons for this slow start.
The MTR, carried out over a number of missions, highlighted the complexities of design and the changes in
personnel from the appraisal stage as key constraints and resulted in agreement on a reconfigured and
revitalized set of components.

The MTR put an emphasis on improving implementation, with the coordinating PIC strengthened at MOEF
and component PIPs revised on a more realistic basis. Based on the MTR recommendations, the project
was restructured in November 2000. The review had recommended a 26% reduction (from $61m to
$45m) in the overall project size. While this was under discussion, a serious earthquake occurred in
Gujarat and an amount of approximately SDR16.2m (roughly $21m equivalent at the prevailing exchange
rate) was transferred by IDA from EMCBP to the reconstruction efforts in Gujarat. The net results of this


                                                    -2-
restructuring and the reallocation to Gujarat were that the funds available under EMCBP were reduced to
SDR18.47m (about $25m) and the size of the TA project was reduced to about $33m, or about 55% of the
original estimate. The following table summarizes the revised components and information on indicators is
included in Annex 1 (Key Performance Indicators).

Table: Revised Components

 COMPONENT (as                NODAL                DESCRIPTION (changes from original Project in
 revised - $m)                INSTITUTION          italics)
 1. Environmental Policy
 and Planning
 Env. Research ($2.97)      MoEF (Research)       Improved management of research priorities and
                                                  proposals
Env. Information (ENVIS) MoEF (ENVIS)             Expand and upgrade ENVIS network of information
($1.46m)                                          centers
Env. Economics ($6.80m)  Madras School of         Establish Env.Econ. cell in MoEF (dropped – instead
                         Economics                establish Center); support curriculum and faculty
                                                  development; training, teaching material etc.
Env. Standards ($1.50m)     CPCB                  Support technical standard development for complex
                                                  industry sectors.
Env. Indicators             MOEF; State of        Dropped
                            Gujarat
EIA ($1.54m)                MOEF                  Improving process for environmental clearances;
                                                  guidelines for EIA in key sectors; Environmental
                                                  Information Centre to facilitate EIA process
 2. Environmental
 Administration
 Regional Offices of MOEF   MOEF Regional Offices Dropped
Project Cell ($0.76m)       MOEF                  Admin support, procurement services, etc
Project Cell ($0.87m)       Dept. of Ocean        Coordinate coastal and marine areas components
                            Development
Project Cell ($0.74m)       Gujarat Dept. of      Coordinate Gujarat components
                            Forests and
                            Environment
  3. Decentralization of
  Environmental
  Management
  National Env. Awareness   MOEF                  Dropped
  Campaign
Paryavaran Vahini – PV      MOEF Regional         Dropped
(Env. Brigades)             Offices
NGO Env. Action Fund        Gujarat Ecology       Scope of Fund limited to Gujarat
– NEAF ($2.40m)             Commission
Env. Education ($0.47m)     MOEF                  Introducing env. into school curricula at State level;
                                                  teacher for media
 4. Implementation of
 Environmental Law
 Env. Law ($4.15m)          Nat’l Law School of   Establish Center, with network; syllabus and
                            India                 curriculum development, teaching and training.
 5. Monitoring and
 Compliance in Specific



                                                  -3-
 High Priority Problem
 Areas
 Mining Sector ($6.31m)      MOEF and relevant      Review of polices/standards and compliance;
                             sector agencies        institutional strengthening and training; demonstration
                                                    projects
Zoning Atlas (Industry       CPCB/SPCBs             Updating guidelines; expand mapping program, pilot
Siting) ($8.44m)                                    cases of industrial siting planning
Ambient Air Pollution        CPCB                   Upgrade air pollution monitoring system.
Monitoring ($6.47)
Coastal and Marine Area      Dept. of Ocean         Develop GIS systems; model Integrated CMAM plans;
Management ($5.71m)          Development            EIA guidelines for coastal development
 6. Gujarat
 Institutional Strengthening GDFE/GSPCB/Gujarat     Upgrade information systems; monitoring and
 ($6.28m)                    Ecology Commission     compliance f env. Standards and regulations in priority
                             (GEC)                  areas. Scope reduced: focus on promoting Cleaner
                                                    Production.
  State Env. Action Plan       GEC                   Preparation of cooperative and participatory SEAP
  – SEAP ($1.05)


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Preparation of this complex project was done in a short period of about four months, in order to complete
the preparation process prior to the movement of key staff in the Bank and GOI, and also to take
opportunistic advantage of unallocated IDA funds. Although the selection of the key themes was reasonable
and consistent with the overall objective, the inclusion of 19 components with a lack of focused objectives
led to a complicated project design. There was also a lack of ownership among Government staff at the
operational level. The project components were not well defined, although it was suggested at the time that
it was acceptable under a Technical Assistance project to prepare detailed ToRs for consultant studies and
for training programs as part of the project, rather than in preparation. It does not appear that the project
was fully ready for implementation at the time of appraisal. For these reasons, this ICR has rated the
overall quality at entry as unsatisfactory. There was no formal assessment of the quality at entry by the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As a consequence of efforts by the Bank and Borrower from the MTR onwards, the performance of the
project improved. By the time of closure, most of the components had achieved planned outputs, and a
number had demonstrated clear impacts. The project succeeded in providing exposure to best international
practices across a wide range of issues, although the outcomes could have been more tangible. Efforts in
detailed implementation of policies at the ground level have also resulted in understanding key gaps and
identifying priority areas for ongoing efforts by MOEF and other institutions. Overall, the project has
achieved a broad increase in environmental understanding and capability across a number of professions
(law, economics) and sectors (mining, coastal management), as well as strengthening the internal capacity
of MOEF and CPCB. The overall outcome of the project is regarded as satisfactory, despite the reduction
in size from the initial design. The major outcomes and achievements of the project under each of the
main themes can be summarized as follows:

Environmental policy planning and administration. The activities under this theme were all broadly
successful and clear progress was made in each of the areas supported, consistent with the more focused
objectives adopted at the MTR. A number, such as economics and ENVIS, had broad influence nationally.


                                                    -4-
In a few cases synergies developed, as evidenced in the ongoing re-engineering of the Environmental
Clearance process, which sees access to high quality environmental information as a critical aspect of EIA.
Overall, these components clearly strengthened environment management capacity in the areas addressed.

Decentralization of selected environmental activities to local communities and non-governmental
organizations. This theme initially included components on strengthening regional offices and local
community efforts but these were dropped at MTR, as a result of a change in policy within MOEF away
from decentralization. The environmental education work resulted in mainstreaming environment into the
school education curriculum very widely (total of 15 states) and the media component contributed, at a
small scale, to improving the level of public understanding of environmental issues. This theme was the
one which changed most at the MTR and the overall impact of this theme was limited.

Implementation of Environmental Law. The project supported the establishment of a national
Environmental Law Center of Excellence at the NLISU and has helped to bring environment law into the
mainstream of legal education in India. These results have contributed to wider understanding and interest
in environmental issues in the law profession and to overall upgrading of capacity in the area of
environmental law and the theme can be regarded as successful.

Monitoring and compliance with environmental laws and standards in specific high priority
environmental problem areas. Clear progress was made on mining issues and new environment
management capacity established on monitoring and mapping coastal and marine areas. The zoning atlas
activities have expanded significantly and continue to support the inclusion of environmental factors into
industrial siting decisions across the country. Limited progress was made on air quality monitoring.
Overall the theme can be considered successful.

Gujarat Component: The inclusion of a specific component for activities in Gujarat was a result of the
interest, enthusiasm and influence of Gujarat officials at the time of project design. This enthusiasm carried
over into some of the activities but with changes in government and in personnel, much of the early
momentum was lost and apart from the additional momentum given to Cleaner Production efforts, the
overall impact of this set of components has been limited.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Details on the components are given in Annex 8.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project supported units within MOEF and CPCB and in a number of external institutions and
significant impacts in institutional capabilities in these units have occurred over the life of the project, at
least some of which can be attributed to the support provided by the project. Significant institutional
development occurred through the Environmental Economics component. The creation of the Centre of
Excellence at Madras School of Economics provides a key resource to the Ministry and the country in
general for addressing the economic dimension of environmental issues. Similar institutional impact has
been achieved through the Environmental Law component, where the development of a curriculum and
appropriate resource materials has allowed the subject to become part of the standard training of lawyers



                                                      -5-
and a network of relevant institutions has been created. The work on Coastal and Marine Area
Management has been very successful in prompting the Department of Ocean Development to establish a
permanent Department to deal with these matters, formed around the core team that carried out the work
under the project. The Zoning Atlas efforts are being carried forward in both CPCB and some SPCBs. In
Gujarat, the support provided to Gujarat Department of Forests and Environment has increased its
technical capability, although this upgrading has been incremental rather than order of magnitude. At the
same time, some other components had limited impact and in a few cases, such as the efforts to establish a
permanent mechanism for the NGO Action Fund, the results were unsuccessful. Given this mixed but
generally positive performance, the institutional development impact is rated as modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Gujarat Earthquake: The earthquake which hit Gujarat in late 2000 affected project implementation,
particularly in terms of delaying the MTR restructuring and the agreement on the DCA amendment.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
 Lack of initial commitment by MOEF and delay in establishing the Project Implementation Cell.
Implementation was slow from the beginning, and actions agreed upon with MOEF during early
supervision missions were not followed through, because of lack of strong ownership, poor initial definition
of components, changing priorities, and lack of staff dedicated to each project component. The Borrower
has noted that the project was taken up with a sense of urgency but initial enthusiasm among staff for the
project was diminished and early progress was slowed because of the efforts required to comply with Bank
procedures. The PIC, which had an important role in facilitation overall implementation of the project was
established eighteen months after Board approval but for some time was weak with regard to the generation
and processing of key project documents.

Delays in agreement on project extension. Informal requests for a project extension were discussed early
in 2003 but the formal request was not submitted to the Bank until June 2003, just before planned closure.
Following Bank agreement, official approval from GoI for activities under the extension was not received
until October 2003, because of the need for Cabinet clearance. The uncertainties around this extension
caused significant delays in completing a number of activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement delays: Initially, knowledge of the Bank procurement procedures by the borrower’s staff
was not adequate and the work required to comply with these was underestimated. After the re-structuring
made during the MTR, procurement improved to a satisfactory level. Simpler procurement activities, such
as National Shopping, were carried out satisfactorily but progress on ICB procurement and employment of
consultants was slow. The issues identified include: differences between Bank and Borrower procurement
methods; delays in decision making; and prolonged bid evaluations. The Bank did not provide adequate
procurement and other advice/training at project launch or adequate involvement of procurement staff of
the Bank at the appraisal stage and early implementation. The Borrower expressed frustration at times over
difficulties in reaching agreement with the Bank on issues such as ToRs and Bid Packages.

Other delays. Because of the delay in signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the
Madras School of Economics and the four core institutions, Environmental Economics component could
not be started on the effective date. Problems encountered in filling up the staff positions, particularly for
the position of Environmental Economists in the Project Units, also affected implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:



                                                       -6-
The final cost of the EMCBP portion of the project was approximately US$27.45m (allowing for variation
in exchange rates over the life of the project), compared with the MOP estimate for the overall project of
US$61.5m. The major factor is the reduction in the effective EMCBP budget by about 45% as a result of
the re-allocation of funds to the Gujarat Earthquake Project (significantly more than the 30% reduction
suggested in the MTR). The net amount transferred from this Credit to the Gujarat Earthquake Project
(recorded as Component Z of this Credit) was SDR15.50m (approximately $20m), together with a sum of
SDR0.735m which was cancelled under Component Z. In addition, changes in the exchange rate between
the SDR and the dollar resulted in a reduction of approximately 9% in the dollar amount actually available
over the life of the project, compared with the appraisal estimate. The final proportion of Bank finance in
the EMCBP components was 76%, almost the same as the MOP estimate of about 77%. The project has
achieved overall satisfactory outcomes despite the significant reduction in the size of the budget, mainly
because the initial design included excessive provision for international consultant inputs and overseas
training.

At the end of the project, the level of reimbursement was 83% of the SDR18.47m ($24.36m) available
under the EMCBP portion of the credit. This level is below that projected in the last supervision missions
on the basis of disbursements because an amount of $4.28m remained unspent in the Special Account at the
end of the grace period.

In terms of overall financial management, the project was designed before the implementation of improved
systems under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) and there was very limited, if any, input
from Bank financial management specialists into design. Consequently, the project was complicated from
the financial management perspective with numerous agencies implementing different components and no
consolidated project financial reporting systems in place.

6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It can be seen from the table below that the sustainability of most of the components is likely and therefore
the overall sustainability of the project is rated as likely.

Table: Sustainability of individual components

  COMPONENT                     SUSTAINABILITY       COMMENTS
  Environmental Policy
  and Planning
 Research                      Highly Likely         The changes have been incorporated into standard
                                                     procedures and will be sustained through internal
                                                     support of the Ministry.
 ENVIS                         Highly Likely         The ENVIS program is funded in the MOEF budget
                                                     through the current Plan period and ongoing support
                                                     is expected.
 Economics                     Likely                The Centre of Excellence is currently part funded by
                                                     project work commissioned by MOEF and is
                                                     developing a external work program.
 Standards                     Likely                Unit continues to work on standards development
                                                     under CPCB budget.
 EIA                           Highly Likely         Work has fed into program on improving
                                                     environmental clearances, which is a priority for
                                                     MOEF.



                                                     -7-
 Decentralization of
 Environmental
 Management
 Education                   Likely                 Educational institutions continue to have
                                                    environmental studies as part of curriculum.
 Media training              Likely                 Training provided is part of program by CSE, a well
                                                    established NGO, working on public information
                                                    issues
 Implementation of
 Environmental Law
 Law                         Unlikely               Basic changes in law student training will remain
                                                    but little resources have been identified to continue
                                                    research, training and development of legal
                                                    materials.
 Monitoring and
 Compliance
 Mining                      Likely                 Improved approaches and practices have been
                                                    adopted by sector institutions but further
                                                    development uncertain.
 Zoning Atlas                Highly Likely          Well established and receives good budget
 Air Quality Monitoring      (not applicable)       Component was not successful in expanding AQM
                                                    efforts but work continues on these issues within
                                                    CPCB.
 Coastal Zone                Highly Likely          Now incorporated into DOD structure and supported
                                                    by regular budget
 Gujarat
 GDFE Institutional          Likely                 Activities are integrated into Department functions
 strengthening                                      and budget for further work sought but uncertain.
 NGO Action Fund             Highly Unlikely        Unsuccessful in attracting financial support to
                                                    sustain the Fund
  State EAP                   Highly Unlikely       Lack of political support to final draft means that
                                                    implementation will be limited, at best.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See table under Sec. 6.1. The Borrower has noted that the more that project activities were aligned with
local processes and rules, the better that post project continuity can be maintained.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project objective was consistent with the government’s development priorities and the CAS. However,
this overly complex project was prepared in a short period of time, without sufficient consultation with the
implementing units of the Ministry (and in other institutions) and without adequate attention to
implementation issues, including technical aspects as well as procurement and financial management. The
project also did not have broader stakeholder consultations to involve other interested parties. In
retrospect, it is doubtful that the project was ready when it was appraised and cleared. The Bank's
performance at this stage of the project was therefore unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The project was slow to take off after approval. There was no formal launch with all the implementing


                                                    -8-
parties and no support or training was provided to the nodal managers on practical aspects of Bank
requirements, such as procurement and financial reporting. The Bank did not fully address the reasons for
the delay until two years into effectiveness. The Mid Term Review process then effectively re-launched the
project, which much greater commitment from all parties. After this renewal had taken place, the project
was adequately supervised and monitored, with greater attention to the project’s likely development impact.
Staff showed flexibility in dealing with necessary adjustments in implementation. The quality of technical
advice provided by Bank staff was good and appreciated by the Borrower. With the decentralization of
Bank functions to the Resident Mission in India, the Bank was able to provide quicker response and
follow-up. The Bank's overall performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory,
taking into the efforts and achievements of the team during and after the MTR

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The unsatisfactory performance in preparation was offset by the strong efforts from the MTR onwards
during supervision, which resulted in the project reaching a generally satisfactory outcome. However, the
willingness of the institution to process and approve a project which was clearly under-prepared suggests
that, on balance, the Bank performance should be considered unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was unsatisfactory. Although there was
enthusiasm at higher levels to prepare a project, the Borrower did not generate sufficient involvement at the
operational level for the objectives of the project and did not adequately address the main design issues,
including broad stakeholder commitment.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government performance for the period from project effectiveness until restructuring was weak.
Although the project was taken up in seriously by the Government, a lack of familiarity with Bank project
processes resulted in difficulty in start-up and as a result much of the initial momentum and enthusiasm
were lost. However, the government demonstrated adequate commitment during and after the project
restructuring. MOEF, which was responsible for the overall implementation of the project, assigned
responsibilities to senior officers and experienced managers. Appropriate levels of review and approval
were usually in place; expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred; and documentation
was maintained properly for periodic review. The project generally did not suffer from counterpart
funding problems although the delays in approving activities under the extension did cause difficulties. The
government implementation performance is considered to be satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PIC, once established and up to speed, was well organized and effective in dealing with procurement,
disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project. The staff were receptive
to Bank advice and collaborative with respect to meeting deadlines. Performance at the level of individual
components was varied but managers were typically informed and proactive. The performance of the
Gujarat Ministry of Environment and Forest was satisfactory. The performance of the Gujarat Ecology
Commission, which implemented two components was initially satisfactory but, due to personnel changes,
weakened in the later stages of the project. Overall implementation performance was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Although the Borrower's performance in the preparation stage was unsatisfactory, the improvements
through implementation and the good performance in the later stages suggest that the overall performance
of the Borrower can be considered satisfactory. The disparity between this and the overall performance
rating for the Bank is justified on the basis that the Bank missed important opportunities at appraisal and


                                                    -9-
immediately afterwards to simplify and improve the project design and to build greater client ownership.

8. Lessons Learned
India is a sophisticated Borrower, with strong technical skills in many areas, a strong administrative cadre,
committed environmental NGOs and an active private sector. At the same time, systems are often not
effective and implementation of complex approaches – such as environmental management – often lag.
Future capacity development efforts need to recognize this complexity, to assess gaps and opportunities and
to build on the skills and capabilities which have been developed through this project. There are some
basic lessons which emerge from review of this project.

l   Clear definition of, and agreement on, a small number of significant, national scale problems is most
    likely to lead to measurable impacts. The desired outcomes and essential outputs should be articulated
    early in preparation. Components can then be designed to support this small set of priorities and
    should build on relevant ongoing activities in order to help the government achieve these priority
    outcomes. Project design should generate a sense that this project can make a difference.

l   Integration of Bank supported activities in a unit’s ongoing work program is central to effective
    capacity building and vital for continuity and sustainability. From this viewpoint, it may be preferable
    that the activities be implemented by the relevant agency/unit rather than by a centralized PMU,
    although the capacity and commitment of the different units may vary and this needs to be assessed
    during preparation. A practical balance has to reached between integrating components into the
    regular activities of the implementing unit (which can bring additional administrative burdens) and
    centralizing control in a Project Unit, which simplifies administration and reporting (but which may
    distance the project support from the relevant operational units). This question should be specifically
    discussed during preparation.

l   For any realistic set of components, the level of readiness is likely to vary. Ideally, a project could
    move quickly to take advantage of overall enthusiasm and windows of opportunity on certain
    components, while continuing to work with other units to refine and develop those other components.
    In operational terms this is a real challenge but efforts have to be made to structure preparation and
    design of the project to accommodate different speeds. Consideration might be given to an approach
    of launching individual components based on articulating clear needs and demonstrating readiness. In
    any case, an effective coordinating mechanism should be established, based on monitoring overall
    outcomes.

l    Bank procedures for implementing capacity building projects should be structured to be flexible and to
    rely wherever possible on local rules and procedures. Appropriate training should be provided for key
    implementing staff, at a very early stage.

l   Environmental issues involve a wide range of actors and effective progress on real problems requires
    coordination and cooperation. This cooperation needs to be established and stressed from the earliest
    stage, by involving key stakeholders in the preparation of the project.

l   The mix of interventions (TA, training, equipment, etc.) to achieve the outputs will vary across
    components and needs to be assessed carefully. Experience in this project suggests that careful
    definition of the objectives of consultant support at the preparation stage pays dividends in terms of
    results. There is broad agreement that overseas training should not be regarded as an entitlement but
    should be targeted at increasing operational skills and should be performance based. Demonstration


                                                   - 10 -
    projects can have great value in relating capacity development to real needs and should be carefully
    structured to capture the knowledge generated and to encourage replication.

l   A clear indication of readiness is the preparation by the responsible units of a realistic and detailed plan
    for each component. This corresponds to the Bank’s requirement for a Project Implementation Plan
    and provides an agreed program for moving rapidly into implementation.

l   A significant part of the value added by the Bank in capacity building comes through regular,
    consistent and responsive involvement during the implementation period. This requires careful
    planning of supervision and depends on continuity of staff throughout the period.

9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Considerable feedback was provided to the team in ICR workshops and meetings in June and October and
these views have been incorporated in this report, as far as possible. A draft of the ICR was discussed with
the Borrower in October 2004, at which time there was general agreement on the overall conclusions and
the project ratings. A number of component specific Completion Reports have been provided to the ICR
team during this process, including specific feedback was from CPCB in relation to the Air Quality
Monitoring component, where general reasons for delay and performance problems on this component were
put forward.

The Borrower responded formally to the draft ICR as follows (letter from Joint Secretary, MoEF, ref.
D.O.No.27/12/2003-PIC, dated 23 Dec.2004.)

    "Kindly refer to your letter dated December 21, 2004 enclosing a copy of the Implementation
    Completion Report (ICR) for Ministry’s formal comments as prepared by the Bank for submission to
    its Board on the basis of discussion during October 2004 on the draft ICR.

    The project evolution has been accurately captured in the draft report. Only some observations in the
    report need to be reconsidered from our point of view. There is unanimity on the project need and its
    timeliness. Therefore we would like to restrict our comments to the main lessons drawn by the Bank
    from the project by juxtaposing them with our own assessments so that in our future association, the
    Bank could consider some necessary procedural changes for improving the project implementation
    process for optimizing the mutual benefits.

    From the report what is discerned first and foremost is the Bank’s impression that in the initial years of
    the project the nodal Ministry had lacked ownership and commitment towards the project. The basis for
    drawing this surmise is the actual time taken by the project to come on full steam. While the Bank has
    alluded to some of the important reasons for this failing on its part, the borrower’s viewpoint has not at
    all been reflected in this regard. In our view, the Government had taken up the project in all earnestness
    and with utmost sense of urgency for all round capacity building in the environment sector in the
    country. The Government had accorded necessary clearances most expeditiously considering the
    normal time taken for such large projects. But Bank’s procedural requirements had steadily waned the
    enthusiasm and       decelerated the pace of implementation till necessary corrective actions were taken.
    In retrospect it is felt that a strong centralized control and monitoring of the project at the Ministry
    level should have been preferred than the decentralized approach of reducing the projects in to sub
    component wise activities without appropriate integration based on the country’s need assessment. The
    envelope approach tended to largely serve the objective of speedy fund utilization. The components



                                                     - 11 -
      should have actually been categorized into two or three groups on the basis of the national priorities
      and the freedom to transfer funds restricted within a group only. This would have given greater
      primacy to the national priorities. Further Bank’s procedures for such capacity building projects should
      be flexible and country specific, aligning more with the local rules and procedures so that the post
      project continuity could be maintained and the gains consolidated. At present the closure of the project
      has created a void in the field of action and extra efforts will be required to maintain the tempo.

      Notwithstanding the above, the project has led to a number of direct and indirect gains and this also
      need to be highlighted as the ‘good’ lessons learnt. The project has clearly established that in a large
      country like ours capacity building efforts fructify better when taken up in a comprehensive manner.
      The EMCBP has succeeded in catalyzing the application of all contemporary principles and practices
      and latest tools for environmental management obtained out of the best of international experience
      available globally in a very short time. This has helped in generating considerable environmental
      awareness all round. But definitely this could have been more tangible as mentioned in the report. The
      other important gain has been the identification of gaps and new thrust areas through a bottoms up
      approach facilitated by the implementation of the project.

      On a perusal of the ICR, it is found that the views expressed by the Ministry during discussion in June
      and October, 2004 have more or less been reflected in the ICR. Therefore, the Ministry do not
      consider it necessary to prepare a separate Borrower’s Report. However, the views as expressed above
      may be construed as Ministry’s formal comments for inclusion in the ICR subject to which the
      Ministry concur with the conclusions of the ICR."

These latest comments have been incorporated as far as possible into the text of this final version. As
noted in the Borrowers comments, much feedback was provided to the team during ICR discussions and
consequently a separate formal Borrower's Report was not submitted.
(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information
A. The Bank’s ICR Team consisted of the following members:

David Hanrahan (Task Team Leader)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Prasad Modak (Consultant)
Uma Balasubramanian (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i) Richard Cambridge
(ii) Naimeh Hadjitarni
(iii) Carter Brandon
(iv) David Hanrahan




                                                     - 12 -
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
OUTCOME/IMPACT INDICATORS


COMPONENT        IMPACT INDICATORS            PROGRESS                     PROGRESS AT CLOSURE (JUNE 2004)
                 FROM ORIGINAL                INDICATORS
                 PROJECT                      PROJECTED AT MID
                 DOCUMENTS (1996)             TERM REVIEW
                 and [OBJECTIVES AS
                 SET OUT IN PROJECT
                 IMPLEMENTATION
                 PLANS – where
                 specified]
ENVIRONMENT
AL POLICY
Research         Increased research-based     • Over 200 MoEF and           • Environment Research Management Plan
                 policy planning and          other staff trained           prepared;
                 management                   • Review of research          • Developed software for computerized
                                              guidelines and                management of research projects;
                                              procedures completed          • 120 persons handling research trained in
                                              • 25% decrease in             India;
                                              research proposal             • 19 Scientific Officers trained abroad.
                                              rejections                    • Infrastructure facilities created.
                                                                            • Procurement of equipment to facilitate
                                                                            Internet access to environment data
                                                                            completed.
                                                                            • Publication containing Executive Summaries
                                                                            of 114 completed research projects brought
                                                                            out.
                                                                            • Preparation of state-of-art reports in 24
                                                                            priority areas initiated.
Environmental   Better informed dialogue      • Five new ENVIS centers     • Information/data gap in Env. System
information     between public and            established                  identified
(ENVIS)         government on                 • All ENVIS centers upgraded • Advisory Committee under the chairmanship
                environmental                 with information technology of Secretary, MoEF formed and seven Technical
                concerns due to measurable • Two country wide              Committees in specific areas set up to guide and
                improvements in scope,        workshops completed and 75 monitor the nodes
                timeliness, and public access persons trained              • New subject areas identified
                to data.                                                   • 85 Nodes established and 5 new Nodes in the
                                                                           pipeline process
                                                                           • Infrastructural facilities at Hqs and Nodes
                                                                           installed/ upgraded.
                                                                           • Study tour for Secretariat and ENVIS Nodes
                                                                           • Monitoring andFinancial module developed
                                                                           • Indian State level basic environental
                                                                           information database developed with online GIS
                                                                           interface
                                                                           • 3 Training programs completed on web-based
                                                                           technologies for IT assistants from Nodes.
                                                                           • 2 general workshops and 2 performance
                                                                           evaluation workshops conducted.
Environmental   Evidence of mainstreaming • Environmental                  • Syllabi at Masters’ and Bachelors’ level
Economics       economics into                Economics, Indicators and developed; 46 training programs for



                                                  - 13 -
                environmental policy       Project Planning Cell in          economists/ non-economists; Hindi translation
                analysis.                  MOEF established                  of textbooks published; 10 faculty upgrading
                                           • Curriculum developed for        progrms; 4 Ph.D scholars workshops conducted;
                Expanding teaching of      post-graduate courses,            19 overseas post-doc fellowships awarded;
                environmental economics in faculty upgrading courses,        • Environment Economics Website created;
                diploma and degree courses and courses for                   • 51 EERC Executive Summary disseminated;
                                           non-economists, and case          • Library support for 4 core institutions; 18
                                           studies in at least half of the   other Institutions; 83 Universities/ colleges
                                           curriculum subject areas          • Two floors of Centre of Excellence Building
                                           completed                         completed with seminar/ lecture hall; faculty
                                           • Two training courses for        and project rooms
                                           economists completed and
                                           four courses for
                                           non-economists completed
Standards       Evidence of technical      • Use of specialist expertise     • Approach for prescribing location specific
                expertise improving the    in review and revision of         standards drawn out and circulated;
                technical and economic     five industrial standards         • National Emission Standards for Pesticides
                viability of standards                                       Industry developed;
                                                                             • Technical base for establishing the standards
                [Development of Guidelines                                   for Petrochemical Plants emission developed;
                for Evolution of Standards                                   • Emission and Effluent Standards for Oil
                and Strategies for                                           Refineries being finalised;
                implementation;                                              • Development of Emission Standards for Basic
                Review/Development of                                        Organic Chemical Manufacturing Industry is
                Standards for emissions,                                     half way through since this was initiated at a
                ambient air & water quality;                                 later stage in the project;
                Review of Control                                            • Accomplished the review of Control
                Technologies for specific                                    Technologies for Total Dissolved Solids in
                pollutants.]                                                 Industrial Effluents;
                                                                             • Draft guidelines/norms for containing volatile
                                                                             organic compounds in industrial emissions
                                                                             completed.
                                                                             • 33 officers of MoEF/ CPCB/SPCB trained
                                                                             abroad in 4 programs; and 111 officers trained
                                                                             locally;
                                                                             • Installation of gas chromatograph with mass
                                                                             spectroscope completed;
                                                                             • Infrastructural facilities at installed/
                                                                             upgraded.
EIA              [Strengthen the EIA           STARTED AFTER MTR             • Revised Environment Clearance process
                 process towards capacity                                    developed;
                 building in the country.                                    • National Guidance Manual on EIA practice
                 Implemented                                                 developed;
                 well-identified tasks so                                    • Environmental Information Centre on EIA
                 that EIA can be used                                        process/ preparation through a single window
                 more effectively and                                        system set up;
                 efficiently.]                                               • Website created for on- line dissemination of
                                                                             information on EC process;
                                                                             • 4 Stakeholder workshops and 9 workshops for
                                                                             data users conducted.
DECENTRALIZA
TION
Environmental    [Introduction of              STARTED AFTER MTR              • Comprehensive evaluation of env.
education        environmental education                                      education in the school textboks completeed;
                 into the school                                              • Total of 100 schools in 15 States for infusion
                 curriculum and pilot                                         of environmental concepts in school curricula;



                                                   - 14 -
                 implementation in                                           • Resource materials such as teachers manual
                 selected states; Enhance                                    for each subject/standard, charts, data sheets
                 human resource &                                            for experiments developed;
                 institutional                                               • 50 Master trainers per state trained who
                 infrastructure]                                             trained more teachers – in all, 1600 teachers
                                                                             trained;
                                                                             • Refreshers training workshops for 22 Global
                                                                             Learning & Observations to Benefit the
                                                                             Environment (GLOBE) trainers;
                                                                             • Financial assistance provided to access
                                                                             internet and to procure advanced software;
                                                                             • Schools provided with instruments like pH
                                                                             meter, TDS meter, Secchi disc, densitometer,
                                                                             clinometer etc. for program implemention.
Media training                                  STARTED AFTER MTR – • Completed 3 journalists briefing workshops
                                                Objective: To build up the for 110 key media persons;
                                                capacities of the media in • Completed 2 Fellowshop program for 32
                                                reporting on               journalists
                                                environmental issues       • Completed one workshop for South Asian
                                                                           editors & senior journalists on air pollution;
                                                                           • Carried out Certificate course in
                                                                           environmental journalism in 3 modules with 74
                                                                           participants
ENVIRON-MEN
TAL LAW
Environmental    Trained Legal staff in         • Training needs for        • Net-working of various institutions
law              place in MOEF, CPCB,           MOEF, CPCB, and SPCBs       established;
                 and SPCBs in accordance        as well as for              • Completed the compilation of the existing
                 with project arameters;        environmental law           environment laws ;
                 trained-environment law        teachers and community      • Developed material relating to coastal
                 teachers and courses in at     based organizations         management;
                 least 25 law schools;          assessed and training       • Published the Env. Law Hand-book for Law
                 trained legal staff in place   programs prepared.          practitioners;
                 in selected                    • Assessment of             • 6 modules in Env. Law developed;
                 community-level                adequacy of                 • 24 issues of Newsletters brought out every
                 institutions.                  environmental legal         quarter – discusses issues on env. law;
                                                framework completed,        • Five issues of Indian Journal of
                 Recommendations of             particularly to enhance     Environmental Law (a bi-annual journal – the
                 adequacy of assessment         community based             only of its kind in India) published;
                 of environmental law           implementation of           • A one year Post-graduate diploma in Env.
                 considered and                 environmental law           Law launched in 2000;
                 implementation                 • Fire fighting strategy    • On-line website created by the Centre;
                 commenced as                   developed and               • Website has Law Teachers Forum, Env.
                 appropriate.                   implementation started      Law Practitioner’s Forum etc.

MONITORING
AND
COMPLIANCE
Mining sector    Twenty percent increase        • Review of existing        • Review of policies, legislation, standards,
                 in EIA/EMP compliance.         policies and compliance     R&R, EIA/EMP & compliance monitoring
                                                monitoring mechanisms       completed;
                 Increase in use of             completed                   • 160 candidates trained locally in 8 batches;
                 environmentally benign         • Six hundred persons       • 38 candidates trained in 2 batches abroad;
                 mining technologies.           trained                     • 18 Regulatory Organisations and Support
                                                                            Institutions strengthened;
                 [Adoption of                                               • Strengthened 5 Institutions and 13



                                                    - 15 -
                     environmentally benign                                        Regulatory Organisations in institutional
                     systems and processes,                                        development;
                     and effective                                                 • 14 R&D projects funded; dissemination
                     implementation of                                             workshop to be held in June 2004;
                     environmental policies,                                       • National wide data-base on mining
                     laws, etc.]                                                   environment set up.
Zoning atlas        Improved planning for             • Zonal atlases for 20      • Mapping of environmentally sensitive zones
                    industrial growth through         districts completed         state-wise developed;
                    local-level mapping of            • Draft industrial siting   • Environmental Atlas of India and for major
                    suitable and unsuitable sites     guidelines completed        cities developed;
                    for industrial estates.           • Training program for 14   • Zoning Atlas for Siting of Industries
                                                      SPCBs completed             developed;
                    Improved land use permit                                      • Regional planning for Tripura, Jalpaiguri
                    procedures for new                                            District, West Bengal and Water Quality
                    industry.                                                     Management of Cauvery Basin developed;
                                                                                  • Industrial Estate Planning/EMP for Urban
                    [Establishing or                                              Areas, Ecocities and Urban Environmental
                    strengthening technical,                                      Information system set up;
                    instrumental and                                              • EMP for Mining/ Tourism/Fragile areas
                    institutional capacities for ..                               developed;
                    producing spatial                                             • Human Resource Development Program for
                    environmental assessments                                     State Pollution Control Boards and other target
                    .. to effectively promote                                     groups developed;
                    environmentally compatible                                    • GIS based database on pollution activities in
                    spatial planning in India.]                                   West Bengal undertaken.
Ambient air        More reliable and timely air • Procurement and                 • Instruments need assessment completed;
monitoring         pollution data covering       installation of air quality      • Procurement of air quality monitoring
                   Additional key pollutants monitoring equipment                 instruments worth Rs.4.54 crores completed;
                                                 completed                        • About 700 staff from CPCB/SPCBs trained in
                   Improved publication of       • Training of staff of 10        about 28 programs in India in air quality
                   pollution data.               SPCBs in use of new              monitoring ;
                                                 equipment completed
                   [Strengthen air quality
                   monitoring with reference
                   to specific pollutants …
                   Develop strategy to control
                   respirable particulate matter
                   in ambient air of
                   Metropolitan cities.]
Coastal and marine Model ICMAMP, GIS based • Project Directorate Office           • Application of GIS and Remote Sensing for
area monitoring    CHIS, WLA and EIA             established                      the management of critical habitats like
                   Guidelines for selected areas • Overseas training for ten      mangroves and coral reefs developed;
                   completed.                    staff completed                  • The National Institute of Ocean Technology
                                                 • In country training for        established to facilitate long-term utilisation of
                   [Acquire knowledge and        fifty staff completed            the capacity developed;
                   information relating to                                        • Determination of Waste Load Allocation and
                   advanced tools and                                             Waste Assimilation capacity at selected estuaries
                   techniques … and                                               implemented;
                   development of expertise to                                    • Developed EIA studies for marine and coastal
                   use these tools.                                               developmental activities and processes;
                   Enhance the capabilities of                                    • Developed guidelines on EIA for coastal
                   the agencies to deal with                                      tourism;
                   various technical and                                          • Developed model Integrated Coastal and
                   management issues ….]                                          Marine Area Management plans for selected
                                                                                  sites;
                                                                                  • A state-of-the-art Multimedia Training Facility



                                                           - 16 -
                                                                                    at ICMAM Directorate established;
Environmental                                                                       • Workshop organized to disseminate the scope
Impact                                                                              and objectives of the project to the stakeholder
                                                                                    groups. First stakeholder workshop organized
Assessment.
                                                                                    and Inception Report submitted for
                                                                                    Development of National Guidance Manual on
                                                                                    EIA practice. Data Centres set up in Mumbai
                                                                                    and Delhi.
                                                                                    • Revised Environment Clearance process
                                                                                    developed;
                                                                                    • National Guidance Manual on EIA
                                                                                    practice developed;
                                                                                    • Environmental Information Centre on EIA
                                                                                    process/ preparation through a single
                                                                                    window system set up;
                                                                                    • Website created for on- line dissemination
                                                                                    of information on EC process
                                                                                    • 4 Stakeholder workshops and 9 workshops
                                                                                    for data users conducted.
                                                                                    •
GUJARAT
Institutional       Increased effectiveness of    • About 40 staff of the           • Total of 36 Cleaner Production clinics
strengthening of    the Department in             Technical Unit of the             conducted;
GDFE                maintaining                   Department trained in EIA and     • Cleaner Production Demo studies
                    environmental concerns in     Environmental Audit               implemented in 9 stone crushing units.
                    state plans, programs, and    • Overseas training for ten       • A new course has been added in the Env.
                    projects.                     staff completed                   Engineering degree course as a result of this
                                                  • In country training for fifty   project;
                    [Improve environmental        staff completed                   • 36 cleaner production video clinics conducted
                    performance of industry       • Draft ICMAMP completed          for creating awareness;
                    through promotion of                                            • Framework for Env. Indicators developed in 5
                    cleaner production                                              areas for Gujarat State;
                    approaches.]                                                    • Video CDs in English, Hindi and Gujarati
                                                                                    version of Cleaner Production practices
                                                                                    developed for wider dissemination.
Gujarat State EAP   Improved integration of     • The first two phases of           • Road map for Environmental management
                    environmental analysis in SEAP completed                        developed for Gujarat;
                    state's investment program.                                     • Complete environment data for Gujarat put
                                                                                    on the internet;
                    [Development of a set of                                        • Developed the GIS Centre for env.
                    Action Plans that would                                         management data;
                    address the priority                                            • Developed a brief State of Environment
                    problems of the                                                 Report for Gujarat;
                    environment in the State of                                     • Document on State Env. Action Program and
                    Gujarat.]                                                       a summary has been synthesized;
                                                                                    • Developed online database for Gujarat
NGO Action Fund Increase in                 • NGO Action Fund fully                 • Supported 46 environmental projects;
                community/NGO               established                             • A number of projects were for collection of
                awareness and participation • Thirty percent of funds               data and a database is created using these data ;
                in                          disbursed to NGOs                       • Linking env. management with capacity
                environmental mitigation                                            building of implementing agencies/ local
                programs.                                                           communities;
                                                                                    • Participatory evaluation workshop conducted
                    [Facilitate involvement of                                      to share experience/feedback;



                                                        - 17 -
                    NGOs and CBOs in
                    environmental management
                    .. through initiatives for the
                    mitigation of specific
                    environmental problems.
                    Build their capacity in
                    implementing
                    environmental management
                    programs.]
STRENGTHEN
SPCBs
Various “residual
activities”




                                                     - 18 -
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                                US$ million      US$ million
Environmental Research                                              2.94              0.44            14.9
ENVIS                                                               1.46              1.67           114.3
Environmental Economics                                             6.80              4.53            66.6
Environmental Standards                                             1.50              0.74            49.3
Air Quality Mgmt.                                                   3.08              1.30            42.2
Integrated Coastal & Marine Mgmt.                                   3.90              2.31            59.2
PIC (MOEF, DOD, GDFE)                                               2.37              0.62            26.1
NEAC                                                                2.03              0.00               0
Paryavaran Vahini                                                   0.98              0.00               0
NEAF                                                                2.40              0.97            40.4
Environmental Law                                                   4.15              1.73            41.6
Mining Sector                                                       6.31              3.56            56.4
Zoning Atlas                                                        8.44              3.27            38.7
Other Components (not detailed for reasons of space)               15.20              6.31            41.5
Total Baseline Cost                                                61.56             27.45
                         Total Project Costs                       61.56             27.45
                   Total Financing Required                        61.56             27.45


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB                             2                  N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                   NCB         Other
1. Works                            0.00                0.00            0.00            0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                            5.00                2.07            4.47            0.00         11.54
                                   (5.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (5.00)
3. Services                         0.00                0.00           44.42            0.00         44.42
                                   (0.00)              (0.00)         (40.41)          (0.00)       (40.41)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00                0.00            5.60            0.00          5.60
                                   (0.00)              (0.00)          (4.67)          (0.00)        (4.67)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00                0.00            0.00            0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00                0.00            0.00            0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)              (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                            5.00                2.07           54.49            0.00         61.56
                                   (5.00)              (0.00)         (45.08)          (0.00)       (50.08)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)



                                                 - 19 -
                                                                                      1
                                                            Procurement Method
          Expenditure Category                ICB                               2                    N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                               NCB         Other
   1. Works                                   0.00                 0.00             0.31              0.00              0.31
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
   2. Goods                                   1.68                 0.84             5.46              0.00              7.98
                                             (1.68)               (0.00)           (2.10)            (0.00)            (3.78)
   3. Services                                0.00                 0.00            13.81              0.00             13.81
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)          (13.81)            (0.00)           (13.81)
   4. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00             5.35              0.00              5.35
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)           (3.30)            (0.00)            (3.30)
   5. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00             0.00              0.00              0.00
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                           0.00                 0.00             0.00              0.00              0.00
                                             (0.00)               (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
         Total                                1.68                 0.84            24.93              0.00             27.45
                                             (1.68)               (0.00)          (19.21)            (0.00)           (20.89)

    1/
         Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
    2/
         Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
         of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
         managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
         Component                    Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank         Govt.        CoF.            Bank      Govt.      CoF.          Bank    Govt.     CoF.
Environmental Research            2.40        0.54                         0.26      0.06                     10.8     11.1
ENVIS                             1.19        0.27                         1.00      0.67                     84.0    248.1
Environmental Economics           5.54        1.26                         3.61      0.85                     65.2     67.5
Environmental Standards           1.22        1.26                         0.63      0.15                     51.6     11.9
Ambient Air Quality               2.00        1.08                         0.68      0.62                     34.0     57.4
Monitoring,
Integrated Coastal &              3.00        0.90                         1.50      0.81                     50.0    90.0
Marine Mgmt
PIC (MOEF, DOD, GDFE)             1.93        0.44                         0.98      0.23                     50.8    52.3
NEAC                              1.65        0.38                         0.00      0.00                     0.0     0.0
Paryavaran Vahini                 0.80        0.18                         0.00      0.00                     0.0     0.0
NEAF                              1.95        0.45                         0.78      0.19                     40.0    42.2
Environmental Law                 3.38        0.77                         1.94      0.46                     57.4    59.7
Mining Sector                     5.13        1.18                         2.30      0.55                     44.8    46.6
Industrial Siting/Zoning          6.87        1.57                         5.10      1.17                     74.2    74.5
Atlas
Other Components                 12.00        3.20                         3.30      3.01                     27.5    94.1




                                                             - 20 -
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable




                                       - 21 -
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
 Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count             Specialty                     Progress      Objective

 Supervision
               06/10/1997                   7    TM (2); PRINC. COUNSEL             S            U
                                                 (1); ADMIN.
                                                 PUBLIC&HEALTH (1);
                                                 ECONOMIST (1); NGO
                                                 SPEC. (1);
                                                 COAST&MARINE MGT
                                                 SPEC. (1)
               10/17/1997                   7    TM (1); MINING ENGINEER            S            S
                                                 (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 TM/ENVIRON. OFFICER (1);
                                                 NGO SPECIALIST (1); COAST
                                                 & MARINE MGT SPE (1);
                                                 ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
               05/14/1998                   7    TASK LEADER (1); MINING            S            S
                                                 ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                                 (2); TL/ENVIRONMENT
                                                 OFFICER (1); NGO
                                                 SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                 ENGINEER
               12/04/1998                   6    TASK LEADER (1);                   S            S
                                                 ECONOMIST (2);
                                                 TL/ENVIRONMENT OFFICER
                                                 (1); NGO SPECIALIST (1);
                                                 ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                                 (1)
               06/10/1999                   5    TASK LEADER (1); ENV              U             U
                                                 ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 TL/ENVIRONMENT SPECIAL
                                                 (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                                 SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                                 SPECIALIST (1)
               11/30/1999                   5    TASK LEADER (1); ENV              U             U
                                                 ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 TL/ENVIRONMENT SPECIAL
                                                 (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                                 SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                                 SPECIALIST (1)
               04/20/2000                   8    TEAM LEADER (1);                  U             U
                                                 SR.ECONOMIST (2); ENV.
                                                 SPECIALIST (3); SR.PROC
                                                 SPECIALIST (1); SR.FIN.MGT
                                                 SPECIALIST(1)
               12/14/2000                   3    TEAM LEADER/ECONOMICS              S            S
                                                 (1); ENV. ECONOMIST (1);



                                                 - 22 -
                                          ENV.ENGINEER (1)
                06/12/2001            2   TASK LEADER (1),                     S   S
                                          ENV.ECONOMIST (1)
                12/08/2001            3   TASK LEADER (1),                     S   S
                                          SR.ECONOMIST (1),
                                          ENV.SPECIALIST (1)
                06/28/2002            6   TASK LEADER/ECONOMIST                S   S
                                          (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                          ENV'L SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                          ENV'L SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                          PROC. SPECIALIST (1); SR
                                          FIN MGT SPECIALIST(1)
                12/30/2002            3   TASK LEADER (1),                     S   S
                                          SR.ECONOMIST (1),
                                          ENV.SPECIALIST(1)
                04/14/2003            3   TTL (1); PROGRAM                     S   S
                                          ASSISTANT (1); ENV
                                          SPECIALIST (1)
                11/04/2003            6   TEAM LEADER (1);                     S   S
                                          TECHNICAL CONSULTANT
                                          (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                          (1); PROCUREMENT
                                          SPECIALIST (1); ENV
                                          SPECIALIST (1);
                                          ENV.EDUCATION (1)
                04/07/2004            3   TEAM LEADER (1);                     S   S
                                          TECHNICAL CONSULTANT
                                          (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                          (1);
 ICR
                07/15/04             3     TEAM LEADER (1);                    S   S
                                           TECHNICAL
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                           (1)
                10/30/04             3     TEAM LEADER (1),                    S   S
                                           SR.PROC.SPECIALIST(1);
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Supervision                           31.5                          105.4
  ICR                                    9.0                            27.5
  Total                                 40.5                          108.1




                                           - 23 -
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                        H     SU       M      N      NA
   Sector Policies                       H     SU       M      N      NA
   Physical                              H     SU       M      N      NA
   Financial                             H     SU       M      N      NA
   Institutional Development             H     SU       M      N      NA
   Environmental                         H     SU       M      N      NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction            H       SU     M      N      NA
            Gender                       H       SU     M      N      NA
            Other (Please specify)       H       SU     M      N      NA
   Private sector development            H       SU     M      N      NA
   Public sector management              H       SU     M      N      NA
   Other (Please specify)                H       SU     M      N      NA




                                                      - 24 -
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating
   Lending                                      HS       S     U       HU
   Supervision                                  HS       S     U       HU
   Overall                                      HS       S     U       HU

6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating
   Preparation                                  HS       S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance        HS       S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance            HS       S     U       HU
   Overall                                      HS       S     U       HU




                                                     - 25 -
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for INDIA: Environmental Management Capacity
Building Technical Assistance Project, dated December 3, 1998 (Report No. P-6910-IN)

2. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

3. Component outputs/publications and Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Completion reports/presentations on major components.




                                                - 26 -
Additional Annex 8. Description of Original Project Components

The project consisted of the following 19 components under six basic thematic clusters.

A. Strengthening Environmental Policy Planning

This theme aimed to strengthen environmental policy planning by providing assistance to the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF) and its affiliated institutions including the Central Pollution Control
Board (CPCB) by upgrading the quality of environmental research and improving access to reliable
environmental information; mainstreaming environmental economics including the development and use of
environmental indicators and indices; and updating and developing more appropriate environmental
standards.

(i) Environmental Research (US$2.97 million) addressed environmental research issues and consisted of
three parts: (a) a review of research program priorities and procedures for inviting, reviewing and
funding research proposals; (b) training in research management and methodology, and (c) the provision
of hardware and software to facilitate interaction with international environmental research sources.

(ii) Environmental Information (ENVIS) (US$1.46 million). The component consisted of: (a)
expansion of the ENVIS system, from 23 ENVIS centers to approximately 32 centers; (b) support to
ENVIS centers to upgrade on-line databases, primarily through: on-site technical assistance in database
management and identification of database needs and structure appropriate to their ENVIS role, and
support for the digitization of data currently only available in printed media; and (c) training to ENVIS
users, in the form of short courses offered on a low or no-cost basis to ENVIS information users, carriers,
and providers, in government, academia, business, and NGOs.

(iii) Environmental Economics (US$6.80 million). This component consisted of: (a) establishing an
Environmental Economics, Indicators, and Project Planning Cell in the MOEF; (b) support to develop an
Environmental Economics curriculum, teaching materials, case studies, and a textbook combining
India-specific case studies with examples of ‘best practice’ from other countries for diploma and degree
programs; (c) a faculty-upgrading program, designed to train economics faculty members from across
India in basic environmental economics; (d) inviting environmental economics faculty from other countries
for teaching and conducting research on India-specific topics; (e) training programs for non-economists on
applications of environmental economics, especially on such topics as pollution control policy,
environmental costs and benefits, environmental assessments, cost-effectiveness, and environmental-growth
tradeoffs; (f) supporting to university and institute libraries to expand their collections in environmental
economics; and (g) supporting to applied research, case studies, and best practices in the area of
environmental economics.

(iv) Environmental Standards (US$1.50 million). The objective of this component was to improve the
economic and environmental efficiency of air, water, and toxic emissions standards being set by GOI.
Several priority areas were identified for the development of new standards. These related to: hospital
wastes; ozone; pesticides, chemical industries including petrochemicals; and man-made fibers. To achieve
this, the project financed expert assistance to the CPCB's ongoing review and modification of standards
procedures.

(v) Environmental Indicators and Indices (US$1.21 million). This component was meant to provide
assistance to MOEF and to the State of Gujarat to develop the following indicators and indices: (a) The



                                                   - 27 -
Cost-of-Remediation Index, which measures environmental deterioration directly in economic terns; (b)
Environmental Elasticity, which expresses the variability of environmental quality in relation to economic
growth; and (c) Environmental Diamonds. The diamonds are developed to show, in an accurate and
quickly absorbable way, the relationship among the four principal dimensions of environmental quality: air,
water, land, and ecosystem.

B. Strengthening Environmental Administration

Strengthening environmental administration was expected to be accomplished by providing assistance to the
Regional Offices of the MOEF so that they could better manage the environmental impact assessment
(EIA) process; as well as supporting the establishment of Project Management Cells in the MOEF;
Department of Ocean Development (DOD), and in Gujarat's Department of Forests and Environment.

(vi) The Regional Offices of MOEF (US$1.46 million) was supported in two ways under this
component: (i) a detailed review of the functions, staffing, workload, systems and procedures, and
location of the Regional Offices; and (ii) implementing a program of training for existing and the newly
appointed staff of the Regional Offices. This program included training needs assessment, curriculum and
training materials development, and the training of staff.

(vii) MOEF (US$ 0.76 million) was also to establish a Project Cell to service the National Steering
Committee of the project. Funds were to be provided to cover the costs of the Procurement Agency which
would assist the MOEF and other implementing agencies with the procurement of equipment, goods,
contractual staff, and consultant services; and local consultants to assist with the development and
implementation of the project monitoring and evaluation system.

(viii) The Department of Ocean Development (US$0.87 million) would establish a Project
Implementation Cell (PIC) to coordinate and manage the implementation of the coastal and marine area
management subcomponents of the project.

(ix) The Gujarat Department of Forests and Environment (US$0.74 million) would establish a PIC to
coordinate all project activities in the State. It would work closely with the Project Implementation Cell in
the MOEF, the Project Implementation Cell of the DOD; and in Gujarat, with the Gujarat Pollution Control
Board and the Gujarat Ecology Commission.

C. Strengthening the Decentralization of Environmental Management

Strengthening decentralization of environmental management was to be supported by providing assistance
to local communities and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) for upgrading the National
Environmental Awareness Campaign, expanding the Paryavaran Vahini (environmental brigades) program,
and establishing on a pilot basis, a NGO Environmental Action Fund to support environmental monitoring
and mitigation activities of NGOs.

(x) The National Environmental Awareness Campaign (US$2.03 million) subcomponent included
support for management, procedures, and target audience impact studies focusing on option for the
program's evolution to a National Environmental Action Campaign. The plan also included decentralization
of the campaign from the Center to the State Departments of Environment and include appropriate staff
training and support. In addition, two existing support Centers were to be strengthened by electronic
networking and training in order to design, produce, and train for a new generation of environmental action



                                                   - 28 -
instruction materials designed to incorporate environmental action elements as well as awareness
information.

(xi) The Paryavaran Vahini (PV) (Environmental Brigade) (US$ 0.98 million) subcomponent
included a review of the existing 130 established Paryavaran Vahinis, identify exemplary practices and
procedures, train MOEF Regional Office staff responsible for existing and projected Paryavaran Vahinis in
community-based training of trainers techniques and evaluation, train State Department of Environment
and Forests staff to coordinate the district based Paryavaran Vahinis in their state, provide recently
developed water and soil testing kits to Paryavaran Vahini members (both for community awareness
activities and soil and water monitoring), and support an accelerated five year program of Paryavaran
Vahini establishment and member training for an additional 284 districts for an end of project total of 424.

(xii) NGO Environmental Action Fund (US$ 2.40 million). This was part of the overall MOEF
strategy for implementing the Environmental Action Program. The project supported the establishment of a
NGO Environmental Action Fund (NEAF) for discrete environmental mitigation action projects to be
carried out by
larger NGOs or consortia of smaller NGOs to carry out community-based projects.

D. Strengthening the Implementation of Environmental Law

This theme aimed to strengthen the implementation of Environmental Law by providing support to the
MOEF, CPCB, SPCBs, industrial managers, communities, and NGOs through training in environmental
law; establishing a computerized environmental law network; and strengthening legal research and
education. It was also to be enhanced by the development and piloting of community-based environmental
decision-making and dispute resolution mechanisms. It aimed to assist the decentralization and devolution
of environmental law administration while maintaining the appropriate role of central and state authorities
for policy planning, and monitoring of compliance.

(xiii) Environmental Law (US$4.15 million). The project supported strengthening of legal infrastructure
for implementation of Environmental Law by: (a) training in Environmental Law (including international
aspects) to legal staff of the MOEF, CPCB, and SPCBs, as well as industrial managers and
non-governmental organizations; (b) ensuring that suitably qualified environmental lawyers are available at
CPCB, SPCBs; and MOEF; and (c) establishing a computerized Environmental Law network which will
provide current information on environmental law and regulations at the national and state levels.

Strengthening of legal research and legal education in Environmental Law was aimed to be achieved by the
establishment of a Center for Law and the Environment a selected Law School in India as a center for
excellence in environmental law, consisting of the provision of a full-time faculty position; the Center was
also to be responsible of establishing relationships with the Law Schools in India providing teaching in
environmental law; development of a core syllabus and curriculum to train teachers of Environmental Law;
development of syllabus and teaching materials (including a case book) for teaching environmental law in
Indian Law Schools; and the provision of resources for the establishment of a library of environmental law
at the Center with a core international collection; and provision of books and materials to selected law
school libraries.

E. Strengthening Environmental Monitoring and Compliance in Specific High-Priority Problem Areas

This objective was to be accomplished by providing support to the CPCB, DOD, and SPCBs to expand
programs to mitigate the negative environmental impacts in the mining sector; the siting of industry to


                                                   - 29 -
reduce pollution; better monitor ambient air quality; and improve coastal and marine area management.

(xiv) Mining Sector (US$6.31 million). This component aimed to enhance the capabilities of the concerned
central (CPCB, Regional Offices of MOEF) and State agencies (Departments of Environment, Mining and
Geology Departments, and State Pollution Control boards) in developing and monitoring the compliance of
local policies, EMPs, and appropriate environmental standards for all mining projects. The following four
major activities were envisaged: (a) review of existing policies/standards and their compliance
mechanisms; (b) institutional strengthening; (c) training; and (d) demonstration projects.

(xv) Zoning Atlas (Industry Siting) (US$8.44 million). This component included: (a) updating the draft
guidelines for preparing zoning atlases, to be made available to all map users; (b) including of up to 65
more districts in the mapping program, which required the installation of environmental planning studies in
each of the participating SPCBs, with the requisite hardware, software, and training to be supervised by the
core CPCB team; (c) identifying, in those districts with completed maps, both unsuitable and suitable sites
for industry and industrial estates; (d) drafting, starting with a case study in Gujarat, guidelines for
industrial development and land-use planning on the state level, taking into account a broad range of
industry, urban, agricultural, forest, and ecologically sensitive areas.

(xvi) Ambient Air Pollution Monitoring (US$ 6.47 million). The objective of this component was to
assist the CPCB in upgrading India's air pollution monitoring system. The upgrading was needed to
bring India's air pollution reporting up to a sufficient standard to allow: (a) emissions inventories of
critical air pollutants to be completed for India's major cities, including ambient monitoring of some key
pollutants that impact o n human health that are not currently sampled (such as fine particulates); (b)
cost-effectiveness analysis of air pollution control strategies that link source reduction strategies with
down-wind ambient impacts; and (c) reliable analysis of trends over time.

(xvii) Coastal and Marine Area Management (US$5.71 million). To assist in the development of
comprehensive coastal and marine area management the project supported the: (a) development of a
GIS-based information system for critical habitats in the coastal marine areas of India; (b) preparation of
model Integrated Coastal and Marine Area Management Plans; (c) conducting waste assimilation
capacity and ecological modeling of selected coastal areas; and (d) development of Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) guidelines for major marine and coastal area developmental activities.

F. Gujarat

Under this theme, each of the individual elements of policy planning and administration, monitoring and
compliance, decentralization, and environmental law were to be brought together in Gujarat to develop an
effective environmental management system. Environmental management was aimed to be improved further
by strengthening the Department of Forests and Environment and the Gujarat Ecology Commission, and the
preparation of a State Environmental Action Program (SEAP).

(xviii) Institutional Strengthening (US$6.28 million). Support was provided to strengthen the
Department of Forests and Environment, Gujarat Ecology Commission, and the Gujarat Pollution
Training Control Board. Assistance was designed to enhance data and information collection, analysis,
policy formulation, implementation and monitoring of compliance with laws and standards in high priority
areas. The environmental management institutions in the State was to be further strengthened through the
preparation of environmental indicators, industrial siting, coastal and marine area management planning,
and the environmental economics, information and research components.



                                                    - 30 -
(xix) State Environmental Action Program (SEAP). (US$ 1.05 million). A major output of the
institutional strengthening program in Gujarat was the preparation of a SEAP with the active cooperation
and coordination of all relevant government departments, industry, NGOs, and others through a series of
workshops, seminars, and consultations. The first stage consisted of the following activities: (a)
identification of known coordination and participatory consultative mechanisms; (b) naming a high-level
advisory committee responsible for overall supervision of the SEAP in the three stages, obtaining official
approval of the SEAP, and for the allocation of necessary resources; (c) establishing technical working
groups to deal with each priority environmental problem, made up of representatives of the relevant
agencies and the NGOs, and other experts; and (d) identifying appropriate public participation mechanisms
to stimulate a wide debate on priority environmental problems and their respective solutions, and to obtain
public consensus on them.

The second stage consisted of the: (a) of studies identified during the first stage. These studies were to be
carried out by the appropriate technical working groups, with the support of the specialized consultants;
and (b) the review and approval of the completed studies by the government. The third stage involved the:
(a) preparation of a report on the SEAP based on the conclusions of the studies and the agreements
obtained through the consultative process; and (b) elaboration of the priority investment projects in order to
present them to possible financing sources.




                                                    - 31 -
Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report




                                        - 32 -
- 33 -
