Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. T-6910-IN
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DECEMBER 3,1996
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region



Currency Equivalents
(as of December 3, 1996)
Currency Unit     =      Rupee
Rupee 34.70     =      US$1.00
Rs. 1.00    =      US$0.029
Fiscal Year of Government of India
April 1  -  March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPCB                Central Pollution Control Board
DOD                 Department of Ocean Development
EAP                 Environment Action Program - India
EEIPPC              Environmental Economics, Indicators and Project Planning Cell
EIA                 Environment Impact Assessment
ENVIS               Environment Information System
EMP                 Environment Management Plan
GOI                 Government of India
GDFE                Gujarat Department of Forests and Environment
GEC                 Gujarat Ecology Commission
GPCB                Gujarat Pollution Control Board
ICMAMP              Integrated Coastal and Marine Area Management Plan
MOEF                Ministry of Environment and Forests
NEAC                National Environment Awareness Campaign
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NSC                 National Steering Committee
RRA                 Regional Resource Agency
SEAP                State Environmental Action Plan
SPCB                State Pollution Control Board
UNDP                United National Development Program
UNEP                United Nations Environment Program
Vice President          D. Joseph Wood
Directors               Robert Drysdale
Edwin Lim
Division Chief          Luiz Emesto Derbez
Staff Member            Richard Cambridge



(i)
INDIA
Environmental Management Capacity Building
Technical Assistance Project
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Sections                                                                                                           Page Number
Creedit and  Project Summary ..................................................                                        (iii)
1. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES IN INDIA
A. Environmental Policy Planning .....................................................2
B. Environmental Administration .....................................................5
C. Decentralization of Environmental Management .....................................................                           6
D. Implementation of Environmental Law  ...................                                ..................................8
E. Monitoring and Compliance in Specific High Priority Problem  Areas .............                                     ...........9
2. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Strengthening Environmental Policy Planning ....................................................                            14
B. Strengthening Environmental Administration .....................................................     19
C.  Strengthening  the Decentralization of Environmental Management .............                                    ............ 20
D. Strengthening the Implementation of Environmental Law ......................................... 24
E. Strengthening Environmental Monitoring and Compliance in Specific High Priority
Problem Areas .....................................................                                                     26
F. Gujarat ..................................................... 34
G. Project Costs and Financing .....................................................                                          36
3. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
A. Project Implementation/Coordination Arrangements ................................................. 37
B. Procurement .....................................................                                                          41
C. Disbursements .....................................................                                                        43
D. Accounting and Auditing ..................................................... 45
E. Monitoring and Evaluation .....................................................                                            46
F. Project Training Plan ..................................................... 47
G. Project Supervision Plan .....................................................                                             49
H. Project Benefits Analysis .................................................... 52



(ii)
Attachments:
1. Legal Framework ..........................................................                                60
2. Environmental Management Institutions ..........................................................            73
Tables:
1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ..................................................... 43
2. Allocation of Credit Proceeds .......................................................... 44
3. Estimated Credit Disbursements ..........................................................                  44
4. Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements .......................................................... 45
5. Training Plan ..........................................................                                   47
6. Detailed Supervision Plan - Staff Weeks Per Mission ................................................. 51
7. Summary of Supervision Plan by Fiscal Year .......................................................... 51
8. Project Readiness and Time-Frame of Project Impacts ................................. .............. 54
Figures
1. Chart of Project Implementation Process ......................................... ................. 40
2. Organization Structure for Environmental Management in India ..............                     ................. 73
3. Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Environment and Forests .............                    ................ 75
Boxes
1. Institutions Involved in Collection of Ground/Sea-truth Data ..................................... 31
2. Institutions for Waste Load Allocation Programs ....................................................... 33
3. Institutions involved in Coastal and Marine Area Development Activities ......... ....... 34
4. India: Environmental Legislation (Acts, Rules, Notifications and Amendments) ..... 61
5. Location of Regional Offices of the Ministry of Environment and Forests ......... ....... 76
6. Ongoing Environmental Tasks of Ministries Other than MOEF .............................. ... 79
The project was prepared by Messrs/Mmes.: Richard Cambridge (TaskManager, SA2DR) Mohan Gopal
(Principal Counsel, LEG); Carter Brandon, (Environmental Economist, ASTEN); Utpal Mukhopadhyay
(Institutional Specialist, ASTEN), Panneer Selvan (Environmental Engineer, RSI) Sam Thangaraj
(NGO/Participation Specialist, RSI); K.N. Venkataraman (Procurement Specialist, RSI), Laurence Boisson
de Chazoumes (Counsel, LEGEN) Donald Foster (Training Specialist, Counsultant); Avyeris Andonyadis
(Implemenation Specialist (Counsultant) and Savitri Ramaiah (Community Health Specialist, Consultant);
and Jeanette Kestell-Cadogan and Beverles Jenkins-Kohi (Staff Assistants, SA2DR); The Peer Reviewers
were Me. Maritta Koch-Weser, (Division Chief, ASTEN); Mr. John Redwood, (Environmental Specialist,
ENVLW) and Mr. Gunnar Eskeland, (Environmental Economist PRDPE). This Report has been endorsed
by Messrs: Robert Drysdale, Edwin Lim (Directors, SA2) and Luis-Ernesto Derbez (Division Chief,
SA2CI)



(iii)
INDIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          India, acting by its President
Implementing Agencies:         Ministry of Environment and Forests;
Department of Ocean Development; and Gujarat
Department of Forests and Environment
Beneficiaries:        India, the State of Gujarat, and other States
for selected components.
Poverty Category:         Not Applicable
Program Objective Category:         Environmental Institutions
Environmental Category:          C
Amount:           SDR 34.7 million (US$50.0 million
equivalent)
Terms:          Standard, with 35 years maturity
Staff Appraisal Report:        Not applicable, Technical Annex attached
Project Identification No:       1N-PA-43728
Estimated Cost:           Local         Foreign       Total
Environmental Policy Planning:        6.66           7.25         13.91
Environmental Administration:        3.26            0.57         3.83
Decentralization of Env. Management:       4.68            0.73         5.41
Environmental Law:          2.27            1.88         4.15
Monitoring and Compliance:        15.14           11.79        26.93
Gujarat:          5.62            1.71        7.33
Total Base Costs:       37.63           23.93        61.56
Contingencies:        (2.49)           2.41        (0.08)
Total:         35.14          26.34         61.48
Financing Plan:
GOI           11.48            -           11.48
IDA           23.66          26.34         50.00
Total:          35.14          26.34        61.48
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year:      1997   1998  1999   2000    2001    2002        2003
Annual:       3.00   1.60   13.60  13.74    11.32    5.38     1.36
Cumulative:      3.00   4.60   18.20  31.94    43.26   48.64    50.00
Economic Rate of Return:         Not Applicable






1
INDIA
Environmental Management Capacity Building
Technical Assistance Project
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISSUES IN INDIA
1.   Introduction. Each of the individual Bank-IDA assisted projects noted in Schedule A
of the Memorandum of the President, includes institutional development/capacity building
components, which are designed to enhance the capabilities of various State Departments of
Environment and Forests and associated institutions, State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs),
parastatal organizations, and private institutions to better manage the environmental
dimensions of specific investment programs. The Environmental Assessment processes of
both the Bank (Operational Directive 4.01) and Govermnent of India (GOI) (Environmental
Impact Assessment of Development Projects Notification 1994) have meant that Category A
and B projects (water resources, forestry, infrastructure) have included the preparation and
implementation of Environmental Management Plans (EMP). However, despite the
impressive record of the Bank and GOI collaboration on the environment, gaps remain in the
support strategy. The Enviromnent Action Program - India (EAP) Review (paras. 13-14 of
the MOP) has also demonstrated that, while other bilateral and multilateral donors provide
assistance to GOI over the range of its seven environmental priorities, there remains an
unfinished agenda, particularly as regards strengthening the capacities of existing institutions
to plan, monitor, and strengthen compliance with the environmental laws and standards of the
country, i.e. environmental management.
2.    Environmental management is a continuous process that consists of three
interconnected steps: (a) the collection and analysis of relevant data; learning from worldwide
"best practices"; and incorporating these in the planning and formulation of policy including
the setting of standards; (b) the effectiveness and location of the administration of
environmental institutions; and (c) program implementation and monitoring to ensure active
compliance with established laws and standards.
3.    An assessment of India's environmental management system suggests that weaknesses
are evident at each of the three main steps and every administrative level i.e. center, state, and
district (municipality and panchayat). Further, despite the support provided by the Bank and
other donors under specific investment projects, more needs to be done in the areas of air
pollution, coastal zone management, urban land use including industrial siting, and mitigating



2
environmental degradation in the mining sector. Outlined below is a discussion of the major
generic issues of environmental management which are manifest at each administrative level.
A. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY PLANNING
4.    Environmental management from central government institutions, particularly the
Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) and its Regional Offices, and the Central
Pollution Control Board (CPCB), is plagued by several problems. These range from weak data
management which affects policy planning and implementation, to overlapping functions and
jurisdictions because of the wide range of environmental legislation.
5.    Environmental Research has received special attention since 1974, when the
National Committee on Environmental Planning and Coordination initiated a scheme for
developing skilled individuals to confront India's environmental challenges. A further impetus
to environmental research occurred with the establishment of a Research Division of the
MOEF in 1985. A process evolved during this period for soliciting screening, and funding
research from universities, industry, and other members of the scientific community.
Research proposals are invited in two ways, i.e. either through the member institutions of the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) or by invitations from the Ministry in
newspapers. The Environmental Research Committee (ERC) charged with screening and
recommending proposals for funding was instituted by MOEF's predecessor National
Committee on Environmental Planning and Coordination during the Fourth Five-Year Plan
(1969-74). The ERC has 20 members, 14 of whom, including the chairman, are members of
the scientific community and six represent the MOEF and other ministries. Requests for
proposals have a generic format only, and do not specify guidelines for the research design,
methodology, data treatment or applicability of the findings. Priorities have not been
established among the physical, chemical, and biological features of environmental resources
or the economic and social considerations associated with their use, conservation, protection,
and management. Environmental research is supported under three broad categories: Man
and Biosphere (MAB); the Environment Research Program (ERP); and Action-Oriented
Research for the Eastern and Western Ghats. About 200 research projects are underway in
any given year, with about 90 being newly funded. ERP principally covers the "Brown
Agenda" and has received 60% of the annual Rs. 38.5 million budget over the past two years;
1994-95 included 31 ERP projects.
6.    The MOEF Research Division is not equipped to manage a focused national
environment research program. The process for inviting proposals, screening and
recommending projects for support is non-thematic, institution driven rather than national
priority driven, and unsystematic. Since its inception, it has not changed to accommodate new
policies and priorities. The research community, or a large percentage of it, is not
professionally prepared to propose and carry out scientific research, as evidenced by the fact
that approximately 60% of the 1,000 research projects proposed for 1994-95 are inadequate in
their research methodology (no testable hypothesis or professionally acceptable data treatment
and analyses) or application to national environmental problems. The MOEF research effort
operates in isolation from other environmental research undertaken both in other sectors and
abroad. This results in the replication of non-India specific research, as well as the dilution of



3
India's available research funds by supporting proposals already underway or which have
been completed elsewhere.
7.    Environmental Information. There is a consensus that the lack of good quality
environmental data is a major problem of environmental management in India. There are two
aspects to this shortcoming: the existence of adequate data, which is essentially a problem of
resources and strategic planning in primary data collection; and the availability of, or access
to, adequate data, which is primarily related to database management, and the legal right of
access by potential users. Underlying both problems are issues related to technology and
resources, unclear institutional mandates, and unclear uses of the data which is collected.
Given India's size and complexity, information collection and database management must be
decentralized, both in terms of geographic coverage and thematic area. Although incomplete
in its implementation, this approach has generally been adopted in India. The data collection
and management system has three parts:
a) Collectors of primary data, such as State Pollution Control Boards,
universities/institutes, and NGOs. Common problems in the collection of primary
data are reliability, adequate resources and insufficient exchange between
collectors and end users results in low usage rates of existing data and widespread
dissatisfaction by potential end users at the lack of data.
b) Thematic data centers, such as the Environment Information System (ENVIS)
centers of the MOEF that collect primary data from all available sources, and
attempt to make it available to queries from both the government and the public.
To date, however, the ENVIS centers have had inadequate resources, technology,
and skills to maintain well managed and widely accessible environmental
databases. An important first step towards addressing these shortcomings is a
proposed UNDP/IDRC project entitled "Establishment of a Sustainable
Development Networking Program," which is scheduled to begin in early 1996.
c) Data end users, include government bodies such as the MOEF and CPCB, state
environment departments, and the district-level planning committees, and outside
users, such as academia, business, the media, and NGOs.  In the case of
government, current data-driven decision support systems are generally in
rudimentary form, and as a result, do not provide accurate and timely data. To
improve these systems, attention must be given to: (i) data needs for decision-
making; and (ii) the technology required to meet those needs. The resolution of
these questions must be tailored to each decision-making body. Furthermore, the
data needs of these important end users should be communicated back up the data
management system--to the primary collection and thematic data centers--in order
to make the entire system more efficient.
8.    Environmental Economics is relatively new throughout the world, but has its deepest
roots in the resource economics traditions in developed countries. Much of the current
literature in environmental economics builds on the mistakes and inefficiencies of 1960s and
1970s environmental policies adopted in the United States, Europe, and Japan. For example,



4
the magnitude of industrial investment diverted in these countries to large, rapid, end-of-pipe
pollution control equipment in the early 1970s could not be done today in the developing
countries without an unacceptable negative impact on growth. Therefore, alternative
approaches to environmental management have evolved that reduce the financial cost to
society of improved environmental management, while securing much higher economic,
environmental, and social benefits.
9.    The environmental community in India, particularly those concerned with pollution
issues, is dominated by environmental engineers. Professionals trained in environmental
economics are under-represented, and the economic dimension of policy decisions taken by
government environment agencies often neglect viable and cost-effective policy options. As a
result, the cost-effectiveness of measures being proposed and implemented is inadequately
analyzed, needlessly expensive, and inefficient policies sometimes result. Two current
examples are: (a) the heavy over-reliance on command and control approaches to industrial
pollution control, in spite of widespread findings in other countries that a more "mixed
policy" approach, utilizing industry compliance incentives through economic instruments,
public disclosure, and voluntary programs, can achieve greater pollution abatement at a far
lower cost; and (b) the recent introduction of catalytic converters on automobiles, which is one
of the least cost-effective of many steps available to address urban air pollution in New Delhi
and elsewhere.
10.   Environmental Indicators and Indices.  A former Minister of Population and
Environment of an Asian country is reported to have remarked in 1986: "In my policy making
I need an indicator in money terms for losses in environment and resources as a counterweight
to the indicator for production, namely national income. If a theoretically sound indicator is
not possible, then think up one that is rather less theoretically sound." Increasing global
concerns about the environment in the 1970s has led many governments and international
institutions such as the Bank to initiate efforts to develop standard and transparent
methodologies to assess the impact of economic development on environmental quality. The
economic liberalization in India in the 1 990s has stimulated rapid economic growth especially
in coastal states like Gujarat and Maharashtra. This fast growth requires massive investments
in energy (coal) production and in other infrastructure sectors. These investments tend to have
profound environmental implications which must be properly assessed in order to maintain
that the investments are at least environmentally neutral or, if possible, environmentally
beneficial. Because India is a very large country with a diverse ecological and socioeconomic
environment, and has not yet developed such indicators and mainstreamed them as part of
their natural economic management, it makes the assessment of the environmental impacts of
economic growth all the more necessary and complex.
11.   Environmental Standards in any country must balance the costs and benefits of firm-
level emissions standards, ambient concentration standards, and standards imposed on
municipal facilities, such as waste-water treatment plants, off-shore out-takes, or land-fills.
All of these pose difficult issues, and implicit economic, environmental, and social trade-offs.
Standards are best assessed in light of good data on the average cost of compliance and of
local ambient conditions.



5
municipalities trying to comply with such standards, it is appropriate that standards face
periodic review and updating. For example, under the recently approved Bombay Sewage
Disposal Project, the environmental assessment process concluded that GOI's bacterial
standard for effluent discharge in coastal waters was unnecessarily stringent when compared
to standards in the European Union and United States. GOI has agreed that by June 1997, it
will establish revised water quality standards, applicable to the discharge of wastewater to
marine coastal waters. This suggests that a more general review of the appropriateness of
national standards and some of the existing legislation may be necessary to bring them in line
with current acceptable standards and practice.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ADMINISTRATION
13.   Regional Offices of MOEF. The Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Bill, 1994,
states that any new project or expansion of any existing project would require an evaluation
and assessment by the MOEF (Impact Assessment Agency Cell) (Attachment A paras. 16-23).
Currently, the MOEF reviews the applications and issues relevant orders. The Regional
Offices are required to monitor the conditions under which clearances are given. It is evident
that follow-up and monitoring of projects cleared under the EIA notification has to be
undertaken jointly by the Regional Offices and the SPCBs. There are instances when the
SPCBs and the MOEF adopt different standards under the Air and Water Pollution
(Prevention) Control Acts in respect of the same projects, while giving clearances. The system
of monitoring also needs improvement, as it is not based on automatic and on-line monitoring
of critical equipment and processes, but based on periodic reports prepared by the units.
MOEF is concerned about systematic follow-up of cases cleared under the EIA and the
environmental audit processes, has made it an important function of its Regional Offices
(Attachment B para. 4), and has created posts of scientists in all Regional Offices. It is also
clear that the standard of the EIAs varies from region to region and from agency to agency.
Even though the Notification lays down that all necessary information must be furnished by
the industries and the project authorities, in many cases, the EIAs are of inferior quality and
that makes quick and effective assessment difficult. NEERI has attempted to streamline the
EIA process and has held some training programs in this regard.
14.   Presently, the Regional Offices are ill-equipped in manpower and supportive
infrastructure to carry out the mandate given to or expected of them. For example, out of
3,443 forestry projects cleared, the Regional Offices could monitor only 2,034 projects up to
March 31, 1995. Out of 1,175 environmental clearances, only 851 could be monitored in the
same period. In states like Maharashtra and Gujarat, out of 139 and 78 environmental
clearances respectively, only 67 and 35 cases could actually be monitored in the same period.
15.   The present location of the Regional Offices makes it difficult for them to discharge
their functions effectively. For example, the Regional Office at Bhopal is incapable of giving
adequate attention to the large-scale industrialization and consequent potential adverse
impacts on the environment which is underway in Maharashtra and Gujarat. Similarly, the
Regional Office at Bangalore cannot supervise ongoing activities in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil
Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Kerala and the territory of Pondicherry. While increased threats to the
environment are being matched by the enactment of an increasing amount of legislation, the
responsibilities of the various agencies, including the Regional Offices, have not been



6
Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Kerala and the territory of Pondicherry. While increased threats to the
environment are being matched by the enactment of an increasing amount of legislation, the
responsibilities of the various agencies, including the Regional Offices, have not been
properly defined. In many instances, there are overlapping rules, in terms of compliance with
environmental regulations under different agencies by the same unit. Lastly, the Regional
Offices are not equipped to deal with specific environmental problems in the regions. For
example, while the Western Regional Office should have expertise in dealing with the
environmental consequences arising out of coastal pollution and chemical industries, the
Eastern Regional Office should have expertise in coal and other mining.
C. DECENTRALIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
16.   The National Environment Awareness Campaign (NEAC) was created in 1986 to
stimulate environmental awareness at all levels of society. The strategy is to fund a wide
variety of activities within existing government and non-government organizations. During
1994-95 for example, over 2,200 organizations including NGOs, schools, colleges,
universities, research institutions, women and youth organizations, army units and other
government departments, were provided funds to undertake awareness activities. These
activities were as varied as the organizations involved, and ranged from training courses,
seminars, workshops and public meetings to rallies, exhibitions, essay competitions, debate
and poster contests, folk dances and street theater. Activities also included the production and
distribution of environmental education resource materials.
17.   NEAC activities are organized through 20 selected organizations called Regional
Resource Agencies (RRA), chosen in part by their geographic location. The RRAs identify
NGOs and other organizations in their region, screen them, and consistent with the year's
campaign theme advertise and invite proposals, i.e. the 1994-95 themes were "Joint Forest
Management, Ecodevelopment and the Montreal Protocol"; the 1995-96 theme is "Women
and the Environment". The RRAs forward their recommended proposals for funding to the
MOEF, where an Empowered Committee further selects, recommends, and submits for final
approval to higher MOEF authorities. Five MOEF Centers of Excellence support
environmental awareness activities of NEAC and other programs such as the school-based
Eco Clubs, as well as carry out research and training in environmental education. The
activities of these Centers also include formal environmental education courses, publications,
public service video spots, exhibitions, and task force reports on specific topics of
environmental concern.
18.   The NEAC has served as the primary general environmental awareness strategy and
has evolved in parallel to other environmental awareness and education initiatives. The extent
to which the Indian population has been made aware of environmental issues is unknown, but
the number of community-based activities carried out during the past ten years is persuasive
that the campaign has reached a wide segment of the population. However, ten years of
mainly the same awareness activities to the same audiences by essentially the same entities
should also indicate that the time has come for a review.



7
19.   NEACs and parallel non-formal environmental education initiatives might be more
effective if linked, if action-oriented elements were included, and if focused on specific
populations and environmental issues. NEAC might be more effective if orchestrated with
new organizations responsible for managing, monitoring, and compliance enforcement of
environmental concerns at the district, town panchayat, and village levels.
20.   The Paryavaran Vahini Program was launched in 1992-93 as an adjunct to the
National Environment Awareness Campaign. The objective is to involve community
members, not only in awareness, but also to empower them to identify and report
environmental hazards and activities detrimental to their immediate living and working areas.
One hundred eighty-three districts have been selected in 25 states and four union territories for
the establishment of Paryavaran Vahinis or environmental brigades because of the high
incidence of pollution, density of forest, and tribal populations. As of January 1996, one
hundred and thirty have been constituted, and forty more have been authorized but not yet
established.
21.   The support system for the Paryavaran Vahinis includes a training program for
District Collectors which is carried out by the Regional Offices of MOEF and instructional
materials designed and produced by MOEF's Centers of Excellence. The 130 established
Paryavaran Vahinis each have twenty members, selected from within the district by a Joint
Committee from MOEF's Regional Office and district leaders. These 2,600 Paryavaran
Vahini members receive a Rs. 200 stipend per month for honorarium and expenses. They have
a violation reporting form which they submit to the District Collector at monthly meetings.
The District Collector in turn, is expected to follow-up on the complaints and submit them for
resolution to other authorities. The District Collector submits a quarterly report to MOEF's
Regional Office which includes the number of complaints received and the action taken on
each complaint. Although it is possible to increase membership of the Vahinis up to 100
members, lack of funding has not allowed an increase even in large geographic and populous
districts with a high potential for violations. The Paryavaran Vahini scheme is a stand-alone
activity and parallels another district-based grass-roots action scheme led by Forestry officials,
the Van Mukhi. In addition, relationships have not been established between the Paryavaran
Vahini district groups and NGOs working for environmental awareness in the same
communities under the NEAC. Expansion and improvement would require review of selection
and training practices, improvement of support budgets including Vahini incentives for
member exemplary performance, and infrastructure and training support for State
Departments of Environment to assume their proper leadership role.
22.   The Paryavaran Vahini scheme has not been orchestrated with District-level planning
and Panchayat structured environmental management initiatives. Paryavaran Vahinis have
not been linked with other environmental awareness programs, despite some association by
Vahini members' with local environmental NGOs. The success of the Paryavaran Vahini
project is based on three fragile premises, that: (a) the District Collector or his appointee, has
both the time to be trained as well as the ability to train twenty or more district-wide
community members; (b) the trained (for two days) members can knowledgeably identify and
report environmental hazards and violations; and (c) the District Collector or his appointee has



8
oversee, train, and follow-up with 27 district Vahinis spread over five states and two union
territories. The process, results, strengths and shortcomings of the Paryavaran Vahini scheme
are clear.
D. IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAW
24.   Environmental Law. India has an extensive framework of environmental law. Its
legislative commitment to environmental policy objectives is highlighted by the inclusion of
provisions in its Constitution. This represents an extent of legislative commitment rare in
international experience. In addition, some decisions of Indian courts have provided
recognition of environmental rights which is more extensive than in most countries (e.g., the
recognition of the right to environment as an inherent part of the right to life under the
Constitution). Although there are issues that remain to be addressed relating to the adequacy
of the substantive coverage of laws and the coordination among existing laws and regulations,
the main legal issue to be addressed at this time is strengthening implementation of existing
laws.
25.   Industrial pollution is among the main concerns, be it due to large-scale or small-scale
industries. In this context, the main environmental laws that fail to be implemented in India
relate to water and air pollution (the Water Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and
related laws; The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1987 and related laws; and
the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Each law has an extensive body of regulations
(Attachment 1 paras. 4-27). There are four main legal factors contributing to poor
implementation:
(a)   inadequate  processes  for environmental decision-making  and  dispute
resolution: Legal literature recognizes that compliance is an integral part of the
process of bargaining by which individuals and groups gain access to
resources. Effective compliance is largely dependent on the extent to which
decision-making processes take into account and reflect the interests of affected
groups. An important function of environmental law should be the provision of
a process by which decisions relating to use of environmental resources are
taken in a manner that provides a full accounting of all interests and costs and
benefits. It should also provide a process to prevent, mitigate or intermediate
environmental conflicts in an orderly fashion. The Indian environmental law
framework does not presently provide and effective process for
bargaining/negotiations among affected groups, or resolution of conflicts.
Consequently, disputes are often either resolved through intervention of the
judiciary in constitutional litigation, or sometimes result in conflicts that could
be avoided through a more inclusive and community-oriented system of
decision-making and dispute resolution;
(b)   absence of non-litigation remedies for affected persons/communities, resulting
in excessive reliance on litigation, including constitutional, public interest
litigation. Reliance on litigation not only places a burden on the court system,
but is also often not accessible by all segments of affected or interested groups.



9
judiciary in constitutional litigation, or sometimes result in conflicts that could
be avoided through a more inclusive and community-oriented system of
decision-making and dispute resolution;
(b)   absence of non-litigation remedies for affected persons/communities, resulting
in excessive reliance on litigation, including constitutional, public interest
litigation. Reliance on litigation not only places a burden on the court system,
but is also often not accessible by all segments of affected or interested groups.
(c)   insufficient legal infrastructure in the MOEF and in the CPCB and SPCBs, for
implementation; weak dissemination of law and the decisions made thereunder;
insufficient monitoring of compliance because of lack of monitoring tools and
technical and legal capacity to review compliance; inadequate capacity for
effective inspection and for taking remedial actions including follow up in
courts; and lack of required continuing legal training; and
(d)   inadequate use of community and non-govermnental resources, and customary
law in implementation. Given the size and diversity of India and the scale of
the problems, even a large expansion of bureaucratic capacity is unlikely to
have a significant impact of results on the ground. A legal strategy has not yet
been developed for employing India's vast and ancient social institutions and
traditions, including its essentially "green" and "eco-friendly" customary law
traditions, in the task of environmental protection. Such a strategy could be
implemented within the existing legal framework, and with minimal additional
resource needs.
E. MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE IN SPECIFIC HIGH PRIORITY PROBLEM AREAS
26.   Mining Sector. Mining projects, one of the 29 sectors listed in the Schedule-I of the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification of 1994, require environmental and site
clearances from the MOEF. An exclusive Environmental Appraisal Committee of experts,
constituted by the MOEF, appraises a large number of mining projects every year. During
1994, MOEF received 510 projects for environmental and site appraisal, of which 366 (68%)
were mining projects (46 for environmental and 320 for site clearances)' As per the EIA
Notification, the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, and the Mining and Minerals Regulating
and Development Act, iron, coal, zinc, copper, and aluminum, are declared as major minerals.
Mining projects involving more than five hectares of land are required to obtain
environmental and site clearances from the MOEF. Projects involving minor minerals, such
as granite, and marble, and major mineral mining projects requiring leases of less than five
hectares of land are given environmental clearances by the concerned state Mining and
Geology Department and Department of Environment and Forests.
IAnnual Report 1994-95; Ministry of Environment and Forests



10
27.   The Regional Offices of MOEF monitor the compliance of the Environmental
Management Plans (EMP) of projects cleared by the MOEF. Similarly, the respective state
Departments of Environment are responsible for monitoring the compliance of EMPs of the
mining projects which they cleared. State Pollution Control Boards monitor the compliance
with the existing water and air pollution emission standards and issue the annual 'consent to
operate' approval to the mines cleared by both the Central and State Governments. The Zonal
Offices of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) compile the ambient air and water
quality data for the CPCB. State Pollution Control Boards, on specific request in a few cases,
provide assistance to the Regional Offices of MOEF in monitoring the compliance of EMPs.
Under the Major Mineral Conservation Rules of GOI, the Indian Bureau of Mines issues
licenses for mining major minerals other than coal (coal mines are handled by the Coal Board)
and approves five-year mining plans. State Governments have their own respective Minor
Mineral Conservation Rules and their respective Mining and Geology Departments issue
licenses for mining minor minerals and approve five-year mining plans.
28.   Recognizing the adverse environmental impacts and the need for developing remedial
measures that are specific to the mining sector, the MOEF established in 1987, a Center for
Mining Environment at Dhanbad in Bihar. The main objective of this Center is to generate
scientific data and build national capacity for sustainable mining in the country. The Center
conducts post graduate and doctoral level courses, as well as training programs for in-service
professionals. Research areas include land use management, noise and vibration problems in
2
mining areas, air pollution in fire areas and its effect on health. Coal India Ltd. produces
over 90% of India's coal requirement. As part of a separate proposed FY96 World Bank-
assisted Coal India Environrnental and Social Mitigation Project, the in-house capacity of
Coal India and its Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI) at Ranchi will be
strengthened to develop environmentally benign designs for coal mining.
29.   As described above, several agencies--Indian Bureau of Mines and MOEF at the
center, Mining and Geology Departments and Departments of Environment in the states, and
Panchayats at the local level, are involved in clearing mining projects. This situation often
results in conflicting approaches and procedures in giving site and environmental clearances.
Also, multiple agencies (state Departments of Environment, Mining and Geology
Departments, and State Pollution Control Boards for minor mineral projects, and MOEF, and
Indian Bureau of Mines for major mineral projects) are responsible for overseeing compliance
of EMPs. The result is that compliance is poor because of the ambiguous roles of the various
regulatory agencies in the mining sector, and each state government having its own
procedures for regulating mining and its environmental impacts. Each State Pollution Control
Board has its own rules and environmental standards for the mining sector. Some State
Pollution Control Boards do not monitor mining projects at all, and some have even exempted
these projects from applying for the "consent to operate". Even those State Pollution Control
Boards which issue "consent to operate" and collect "water cess fees", monitor the compliance
2Environment and Development: Traditions, Concerns and Efforts in India--National Report to UNCED, June
1992.



I1
of air and water pollution standards only. They do not monitor compliance of other
appropriate mitigation measures for environmental protection.
30.   Inadequate capacity in State Pollution Control Boards and MOEF Regional Offices is
common across the country. Lack of expertise in environmental planning and monitoring of
mining projects as well as an inadequate number of professional staff are the major problems.
In some Regional Offices each staff is assigned a large territory with several hundred mining
projects. Staff are normally trained to deal only with industrial air and water pollution
control, with the result that the major environmental concerns of mining, such as land
degradation, hydrology, and so on, do not receive adequate attention.
31.   Laxity in addressing the impacts of minor mineral mining projects is another common
issue. The state Departments of Environment and Departments of Mining and Geology do not
have in-house capacity to clear the minor minerals projects and to monitor compliance of
agreed EMPs. Also, most State Pollution Control Boards have exempted these mining projects
from applying for a "consent to operate" and do not monitor or enforce any environmental
standards. At present, there is not much networking among the various institutions responsible
for regulating mining and related environmental impacts. There is a little coordination and
exchange of information/experiences among the mining institutions and the different
Government agencies responsible for issuing clearances. Also, there is a hiatus in addressing
the environmental impacts of (old) mines operating with leases which were issued before the
1994 EIA notification. Under the Forest Act, 1980, the renewal of a mining lease is
considered the grant of a fresh lease and requires site and environmental clearances. Whereas,
the EIA notification, is silent on this issue and as a result, old mines continue to operate
without implementing appropriate environmental mitigation measures.
32.   Industrial Siting. Unplanned and haphazard siting of industries increase the risks to
the environment, the cost of degradation, and the future cost of mitigation. Also, the current
industrial clearance process places more emphasis on the stated intent of an industry to
comply with emission standards, but often does so with disregard for: (a) the cumulative
pollution in the area, which may already exceed ambient standards; (b) the local environment
carrying capacity, or its ability to absorb new pollution loads; or (c) local economies of scale
in providing infrastructure or common effluent treatment plants for municipalities and local
industry.
33.   The process of integrating the concern for pollution control into a wide cross-sectoral
environmental protection strategy has started in India. The data, skills, and techniques
required to generate thematic maps that incorporate economic, physical, and enviromnental
themes, are becoming available. Such map overlays are an essential tool to improved local
environmental planning, and require both financial and human resources.
34.   In India, the spatial dimension of environmental management requires attention.
Inappropriate siting of industry, industrial estates, and other land uses leads to unacceptably
high but avoidable environmental damages, infrastructure costs, concentrations of pollution,
and social costs, all of which can be lowered through improved planning and industrial siting.



12
Various technical approaches and tools for environmental planning exist, and most involve
mapping and zoning of permissible land uses.
35.   The CPCB has undertaken a pilot project to demonstrate the use of environmental data
for planning purposes in 17 districts in 14 states. The pilot program is expected to be
completed in 1996, and the CPCB has acquired much in terms of methodology, technique,
staffing requirements, and data sources. For each district, the project created a Zoning Atlas
which contains maps that show the spatial suitability for siting of industries which are liable to
cause adverse environmental impacts given the environmental features at the site. Now that
these pilot maps exist, the challenge is to use them as daily tools in siting new industry
(Department of Industry), the issuing of industrial "no objection certificates" (SPCBs), the
granting of environmental clearances (State Department of Environment and Forests),
physical planning (Town and Country Planning Departments), and economic development
(Metropolitan Development Authorities). The linkages between the Zoning Atlas project and
implementing agencies remain to be made and pose a challenge which must be addressed as a
central feature of environmental management.
36.   Ambient Air Monitoring. Total Suspended Particulates (TSP), S02 and N02 levels
are regularly monitored (about seven times per month) at stations operated by the National
Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) under the jurisdiction of the CPCB in
ten of India's largest cities, and by the CPCB in about 18 additional cities. NEERI operates
three stations (residential, commercial and industrial) in each of the cities it monitors. While
NEERI also analyzes the amount of lead (and other metals) in particulates, CO and ozone are
monitored only occasionally. PMIO3 is not monitored at all, although NEERI monitors
respirable particles, which are particles less than 13-14 microns in diameter. The regular
monitoring of PM1O, lead, CO, and ozone should be instituted at all CPCB stations.
Knowledge of PM10 levels is crucial to measuring human health effects. Carbon monoxide
and ozone may indeed become serious problems in Indian cities as vehicle fleets grow.
37.   In addition, in order to set priorities for controlling urban air pollution in India, it is
important that emissions inventories be established for each major city. The emissions
inventory locates on a map (in a GIS database), all major industrial, domestic and mobile
sources for the common air pollutants and estimates (usually on the basis of quantity of fuel
burned times appropriate emissions factors) the emissions from each source. When linked
with source-receptor (dispersion) models, the effect of emitting a ton of particulates (or other
pollutant) in a given location on ambient air quality can be predicted. Since it is ambient air
quality that affects human welfare, understanding this linkage is fundamental to doing cost-
effective analysis of air pollution abatement strategies. Without determining the contribution
of different sources to ambient pollution at population centers, policy-makers may wind up
trying to control sources that really do not contribute much to the air pollution-related health
problem. Previous World Bank documents have mentioned two issues concerning reporting
of air pollution data in India. One is the long lag between data collection and publication. For
3PMIO = particles less than ten microns in diameter, which more easily penetrate the lung and are therefore
more relevant for human health.



13
example, in early 1995, the CPCB had not yet released statistics for 1992. Second, the data
reported on S02 and N02 do not correspond to India's ambient standards for these pollutants,
making it difficult to assess compliance.
38.   Coastal and Marine Area Management. The Coastal Regulation Zone notification
was issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) on February 20th, 1991. By
this notification, the Government declared "the coastal stretches of seas, bays, estuaries,
creeks, rivers and backwaters, which are influenced by tidal activities (on the landward side)
up to 500 meters from the high tide line, and the land between the low tide line and the high
tide line as the coastal regulation zone" and imposed restrictions on the setting up and
expansion of industries, operations or processes, etc. on the said zone. The notification listed a
range of prohibited activities (e.g. setting up of new industries and expansion of existing
industries, except those directly related to the waterfront or directly needing foreshore
facilities). Details of the regulations for permissible activities and procedures for monitoring
and enforcement are discussed in paragraph 27 of Attachment 1.
39.   Demographic pressure and rapid industrialization generate enormous amounts of waste
materials which are discharged into the marine environment along India's 7,500 km coastline
which supports a variety of marine ecosystems, including fragile mangroves and coral reefs.
Coastal zone management has become extremely complex because of the lack of clarity of the
roles of various organizations, including the ministries of the Government of India. While the
Department of Ocean Development is responsible for monitoring marine pollution, they have
little authority in initiating corrective action to control pollution which comes from land-based
sources. Under the CRZ notification, coastal states are required to prepare Coastal Zonal
Management Plans for the approval of MOEF. The approved Coastal Zonal Management
Plans would form a part of local statutes for enforcing the norms and provisions of the CRZ
notification. To date, no such plans have been approved; meanwhile, pollution-generating
activities continue in many coastal areas.
4 India has 8-hour and 24-hour standards for TSP, N02 and S02 that are not to be violated more than five
percent of the time. To see whether these standards have been violated requires the frequency distribution
of 24-hour average and 9-hour average values. NEERI reported the distribution of 4-hour average values,
and the averaging time used by the CPCB was unclear.



14
2. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Strengthening Environmental Policy Planning (Proposed Outlay US$ 13.91 million)5.
This component of the project includes five sub-components, as follows:
40.   Environmental Research subcomponent I..
(US$2.97 million) would address environmental  Cn4as
research issues (paras. 5-6) and consist of three   a :e       . .. .. i.. ..
parts,                                           Loat10s,armx.
(a)   a review  of research  program       orseas           160 staff no  l
priorities  and  procedures  for           d
inviting, reviewing and funding
research proposals;
(b)   training in research management and methodology, and
(c)   the provision of hardware and software to facilitate interaction with
international environmental research sources.
This sub-component would focus on the Environmental Research Program (ERP). The first
activity would consist of MOEF's Research Division staff and selected members of the
environmental  research  scientific  community  participating  in  a  multi-element,
interdisciplinary, international environmental research policy and management forum. A
major outcome of this interaction would be a revised Environmental Research Program,
including an implementable action research management plan of policies, practices, and
procedures. The second activity would consist of local workshops and short courses in
environmental research methodology and on revised proposal procedures for members of the
scientific research community. Curriculum development, instructional materials design and
production, and training of trainers for the workshops would also be undertaken during this
period. The final activity would include provision of computer hardware and software to
MOEF's Research Division to facilitate internet access to international environmental
research data resources. It is expected that India's original environmental research findings
would be shared and compared with similar topical research findings from abroad and these
data would become an integral part of ERP policies and practices. The sub-component would
be implemented by the Research Division of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (para.
93).
5This and other references to proposed outlays are base cost estimates.



15
41.   Environmental Information (US$1.46
million).   This sub-component will focus  TecknialAssstance
primarily on data management, i.e., the thematic  Consultnts
data centers of the Environmental Information   Local            120 staff months
System (ENVIS), and only secondarily on data  Training
end users. The objective is to help establish an  Local          105saffmots
.. . . ~~~~Eqguipment and materiats--
on-line and geographically decentralized system   E   an  ar
of information on environmental issues in India, and to support through training, ENVIS
information users, carriers, and providers in government, academia, business, and NGOs.
Achievement of this objective will be measurable in terms of scope, access, quality, reliability,
and completeness of environmental data available to end users.  The environmental
information (ENVIS) sub-component will consist of:
(a)   expansion of the ENVIS system, from 23 ENVIS centers to approximately 32
centers;
(b)   support to ENVIS centers to upgrade on-line databases, primarily through: on-
site technical assistance in database management and identification of database
needs and structure appropriate to their ENVIS role, and support for the
digitization of data currently only available in printed media; and
(c)   training to ENVIS users, in the form of short courses offered on a low or no-
cost basis to ENVIS information users, carriers, and providers, in government,
academia, business, and NGOs.
42.   As needed (based on the progress of the proposed UNDP/IDRC  project)
"Establishment of a sustainable Development Networking Program", data standardization,
coding, and management issues related to data compatibility across ENVIS centers, would be
studied. In addition, additional activities for governmental decision makers, in the form of
strategic studies for the implementation of data-driven environmental decision support
systems would be considered. The possibilities include: better tracking of ambient
environmental conditions and trends; the creation of environmental indicators linked with
measuring the localized impact of current policies; better forecasting including scenarios
based on alternative courses of' action; and better tracking of firm-level pollution abatement
and project-level implementation of agreed-upon environmental management plans. The
Environment Information Division in the MOEF would be the focal point for this sub-
component (para. 94). It will be assisted primarily by local consultants, using locally procured
and serviced equipment. One possibility is to use the same project implementation team
(advisory group and consultants) as the UNDP/IDRC Sustainable Development Network
Project.



16
43.   Environmental Economics  (US$6.80
million).  This sub-component will provide  CoFechnc
support for curriculum development, expanded   Expatriate        96 staffmontis
teaching, faculty upgrading fellowships, and    Local            670 staff mon6ths
ongoing research in the area of environmental  Training
economics. Its objective is to increase the     Overseas         72 staffmonts
application of economic tools to the general   Local             440asnd mmontha
debate on environmental management in India
across the full range of issues such as priority-setting and policy approaches for pollution
control, resource management, and biodiversity conservation. Achievement of this objective
will be measurable in terms of the number of college and post-graduates trained in
environmental economics; the scope and quality of research in the field of environmental
economics; and the integration of the research recommendations into environmental decision-
making at the various levels of government.
44.   The environmental economics sub-component will consist of:
(a)   establishing an Environmental Economics, Indicators, and Project Planning
Cell in the Ministry of Environment and Forests;
(b)   support to develop an environmental economics curriculum, teaching materials,
case studies, and perhaps a textbook combining India-specific case studies with
examples of "best practice" from other countries for diploma and degree
programs;
(c)   a faculty-upgrading program, designed to train economics faculty members
from across India in basic environmental economics, in order to better equip
them to introduce the above curriculum in their respective colleges and
universities. This will consist primarily of short (1-2 months) courses offered
in India, but will be supplemented by a few (up to four per year) post-doctoral
fellowships for 3-12 months at prominent environmental economics faculties in
other countries.
(d)   a program to invite environmental economics faculty from other countries to
spend 1-9 months teaching and conducting research on an India-specific topic.
(e)   training programs for non-economists on applications of environmental
economics, especially on such topics as pollution control policy, environmental
costs and benefits, environrnental assessments, cost-effectiveness, and
environmental-growth tradeoffs. These programs would consist primarily of
short (one week) courses, offered to (a) government officials in the MOEF,
state-level Environment Departments, Pollution Control Board officials,
members of the Indian Economic Service, non-environment government
agencies such as Departments of Industry, Coal, Power, Petroleum, Fertilizer,
Fisheries, Bureau of Industrial Costs and Pricing, Town and Country Planning



17
Organization and Directorates, etc., and (b) representatives of industry,
banking, NGOs, the media, and other interested outside parties.
(f)   support to university and institute libraries to expand their collections in
environmental economics in the form of: (i) a one-time stocking of important
books and journals, and (ii) support for future acquisitions on a declining scale
over the life of the project; and
(g)   support to applied research, case studies, and best practices in the area of
environmental economics. In order to ensure the maximum linkage between
researchers and students, only universities or institutes offering degree courses
would compete for research funds.  In addition, in order to assist in
professional skills transfer, research collaborations between institutes in India
and in other countries would be encouraged, and limited travel will be
supported. The general themes of the research program will be developed in
consultation with the MOEF, the core institutes, and others. Against these
themes, proposals could be invited. A tentative list of themes would include:
(i) lessons from experience, especially case studies on how other countries
have addressed environmental issues; (ii) the costs and benefits of investing in
the environment; (iii) approaches to regulation enforcement; (iv) approaches to
decentralization; (v) public participation and public disclosure; and (vi) fiscal
and financing issues; and (vii) public and private sector roles.
45.   Environmental  Standards  (US$1.50   TecknieatAssi*ance
million).   In  India, standards  have  been   Consultants
challenged for being too lax, too stringent, or    Expatriate        12 staff months
simply, on  occasion, irrelevant. Given  the   Lrcail                36 staff monhsg
enormous investment capital that is affected by   Trainl             100 staff months
firms and municipalities trying to comply with  Eq caipmentandmaterials
such standards, it is appropriate that standards
face periodic review and updating. This process is ongoing in India. In this regard, the MOEF
and CPCB have sought technical assistance in selected areas of this standard-setting and
review process, in order that the standards adopted incorporate the latest understanding of
relevant technologies, costs, and options. The objective of this sub-component is to improve
the economic and environmental efficiency of air, water, and toxic emissions standards being
set by GOI. Several priority areas have been identified for the development of new standards.
These relate to: hospital wastes; ozone; pesticides, chemical industries including
petrochemicals; and man-made fibers. To achieve this, the project will finance expert
assistance to the CPCB's ongoing review and modification of standards procedures.



18
46.   Environmental Indicators and Indices       I T incaAs an - ......
(US$1.21  million).   Reliable environmental  Conutatsh&
indicators expressed  in  both  physical and    EXpatriate       48staff monts
monetary terms provide policy and decision-                         . .....Local  269amonth
makers with an effective tool with which to make  Overseas       48 stffmonths
national environmental and economic decisions.                              - Locals 2(X) st    months
Much of the environmental and economic data    Wumen  materias-d
generated in India can be effectively utilized for
decision/policy making when analyzed and aggregated to form environmental indices. This
sub-component would provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment and Forests and to
the State of Gujarat to develop the following indicators and indices based on current
information and policy needs.
47.   The first activity will be to support the design of a framework of environmental
indicators appropriate to India's needs. Several approaches exist, such as a recently concluded
Asian Development Bank-financed study in China, Indonesia, Philippines, Nepal, Pakistan,
Marshall Islands on environmental indicators that recommended use of the following
indicators and indices:
(a)   The Cost-of-Remediation Index.   This index measures environmental
deterioration directly in economic terns. It is based on the economic theory
that constraints on economic development can be related to benefits foregone
via the use of shadow prices of the constraints. If the standards for the quality
of the environment can be identified, then the costs of meeting this standard
can be estimated. Four major environmental sectors are considered for the
estimation: air quality, water quality, land quality, and ecosystem quality.
Alternatively, the cost-of-remediation approach can also be used to determine
the economic feasibility of meeting existing environmental standards.
(b)   Environmental Elasticity.   This  index  expresses the  variability  of
environmental quality in relation to economic growth. By measuring changes
in environmental quality relative to changes in the economy, it is possible to
assess the sustainability of states, regions in a country, and the country as a
whole. Environmental elasticity is defined as the ratio between change of
environmental aggregate (weighted average of selected environmental
indicators) and change of economic aggregate (weighted average of selected
economic indicators) over a certain time period. Conceptually, when a country
is achieving improvements in both economy and environmental quality, the
country is on a sustainable path.  However, when a country (state) is
experiencing environmental degradation, but economic improvement, if the
rate of environmental degradation is slower than the rate of economic
improvement, the country is classified as "weakly sustainable" and
"unsustainable". The concept of environmental elasticity is particularly useful
for monitoring environmental trends, which are essential for policy making at
the macro level.



19
(c)   Environmental Diamonds.  The diamonds are developed to show, in an
accurate and quickly absorbable way, the relationship among the four principal
dimensions of enviromnental quality: air, water, land, and ecosystem. If
environmental elasticity is developed mainly for monitoring environmental
trends, environmental diamonds are best used for characterizing the state of the
environment by the four sectors. For each sector, a normalized index is chosen
to represent the quality of the enviromnent, and the four indices chosen are
used to draw a diamond graph. The great strength of the environmental
diamonds is their flexibility in use. One can base them on conventional indices
or cost-of-remediation indices. They are very good for visual comparison
among sectors or among countries.
48.   Other approaches to the development of environmental indicators include (a) sectoral
indicators that link environmental progress to the broader objective of sustainable
development; and (b) a formal pressure-state-response framework that helps to identify critical
issues and actions required across a wide range of environmental issues. This indicator design
activity will be undertaken in close collaboration with both government and NGO users of
environmental indicators. The second activity to be supported under this subcomponent will
be to implement (and fine-tune) the proposed indicators, and to test their usefulness at both the
center and in the State of Gujarat. The environmental indicators subcomponent will be closely
associated with the environmental economics and environmental information subcomponents,
since the information and analytical aspects of all these are mutually reinforcing.
B. Strengthening Environmental Administration (Proposed Outlay US$3.83 million).
This component of the project includes four subcomponents as follows:
49.   The Regional Offices of the Ministry   Technkal Assitane
of Environment and  Forests  (US$1.46  Consultants
million) would be supported in two ways under  Expatriate      12 staffmonths
Local           I100 staff monfth
this sub-component.  The first is a detailed  TLamoing
review of the functions, staffing, workload, and  Overseas     20 staff months
location of the Regional Offices. It would also  Local          140 staff months
cover the systems and procedures employed by  Equipmnent and materials
the Regional Offices as called for under existing regulations, and examine the problems of
overlapping jurisdictions which constrain the effective collaboration of the Regional Offices
with state agencies, particularly the State Pollution Control Boards. A special focus of the
review will be the role currently being played by the Regional Offices in the monitoring and
implementation of the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) mechanism which is a major
instrument of the environmental management system (paras.13-15). The outcome of this
review is likely to be an action plan to expand the number of Regional Offices and to upgrade
their staffing to better respond to regional differences in industrial development. The second
part of this sub-component would be to implement a program of training for existing and



20
newly appointed staff of the Regional Offices. This program would include a training needs
assessment, curriculum and training materials development, and the training of staff. Training
would cover topics related to environmental impact assessment and monitoring, coastal and
marine area management (para. 82), mining (paras. 70 - 71), air pollution monitoring (Para.
76) as well as environmental law (para. 64). It is expected that at the conclusion of the
technical assistance program, the Regional Offices would be staffed, equipped, located and
trained to be able to effectively monitor industry compliance with the Environmental
Management Plans which are a requirement of the Environmental Impact Assessment
Notification.
50.   Ministry of Environment and Forests (US$ 0.76 million) would establish a Project
Cell to service the National Steering Committee of the project (para. 91). Funds would be
provided to cover the costs of the Procurement Agency which would assist the MOEF and
other implementing agencies with the procurement of equipment, goods, contractual staff, and
consultant services; and local consultants to assist with the development and implementation
of the project monitoring and evaluation system. The capacity within the MOEF would also
be strengthened with the establishment of the Environmental Economics, Indicators, and
Project Planning Cell (paras. 44(a); 95) and expert assistance from specialized institutions for
the environmental law and mining sector subcomponents (paras. 99 and 101).
51.   The Department of Ocean Development (US$0.87 million) would establish a Project
Implementation Cell to coordinate and manage the implementation of the coastal and marine
area management subcomponents of the project (Paras. 77-82; 102).
52.   The Gujarat Department of Forests and Environment (US$0.74 million) would
establish a Project Implementation Cell to coordinate all project activities in the State. It
would work closely with the Project Implementation Cell in the MOEF, the Project
Implementation Cell of the DOD; and in Gujarat, with the Gujarat Pollution Control Board
and the Gujarat Ecology Commission.
C. Strengthening the Decentralization of Environmental Management (Proposed Outlay
US$5.41 million).
This component of the project includes three subcomponents:
53.   The National Environmental Awareness
Campaign (US$2.03 million) subcomponent would                    ....s..
include support for management, procedures, and    E... xpatriate.2 sa . mos 
target audience impact studies focusing on option  Lo XXl       144 staff months
for the program's evolution to a National Train,ing
Environmental Action Campaign (paras. 16-19).                  ....a. 2.  month;-
Based on these studies, a revised program would be $quipnentand materki
designed and piloted in two states. The plan also                          ...
would include decentralization of the campaign from the Center to the State Departments of



21
Environment and include appropriate staff training and support. In addition, two existing
support Centers would be strengthened by electronic networking and training in order to
design, produce, and train for a new generation of environmental action instruction materials
designed to incorporate environmental action elements as well as awareness information.
54.   A new media campaign would enhance present MOEF efforts by linking productions
with other community-based environmental action campaigns. The subcomponent would
include training for MOEF headquarters and Regional Office Staff, State Department of
Environment and Forests staff, and NGOs, in target audience stratification and focus group
interview techniques, and fund the production of public service radio and television
announcements combined with target group impact measurement. The second part of the
subcomponent would support a series of workshops for print and visual media journalists on
environmental problems, programs, and mitigation efforts.
55.   The   Paryavaran    Vahini   (PV)  TechnialAssistance
(Environmental Brigade) (US$ 0.98 million)  Consultants
subcomponent would include a review of the    Local            85 staffmonths
existing 130 established Paryavaran Vahinis,  Training                      l
identify exemplary practices and procedures,  Local            200 staff months
train MOEF Regional Office staff responsible for l uipment admaterials
existing and projected Paryavaran Vahinis in community-based training of trainers techniques
and evaluation, train State Department of Environment and Forests staff to coordinate the
district based Paryavaran Vahinis in their state, provide recently developed water and soil
testing kits to Paryavaran Vahini members (both for community awareness activities and soil
and water monitoring), and support an accelerated five year program of Paryavaran Vahini
establishment and member training for an additional 284 districts for an end of project total of
424. Refresher training for existing Paryavaran Vahini members (6000) would be combined
with induction training for the 284 additional Paryavaran Vahinis to be established.
56.   NGO  Environmental Action  Fund  | TechnicalAswistance
(US$ 2.40 million).  NGO community-based  Conasultants
environmental action is part of the overall MOEF  Local        800 staff months
strategy for implementing the Environmental I
Action Program. Implementation of the strategy includes funding NGOs for environmental
awareness and action activities. Several international donors including the UNDP, Canada,
Norway, Sweden, the UK, and the USA provide funds for small NGO education and
awareness programs. The project will support the establishment of a NGO Environmental
Action Fund (NEAF) for discrete environmental mitigation action projects to be carried out by
larger NGOs or consortia of smaller NGOs to carry out community-based projects.
57.   The objectives of the project would be achieved through the participation of different
stakeholders, i.e "borrowing stakeholders" consisting of central, state and local governments,
"primary stakeholders" the community, their groups and organizations; and "secondary
stakeholders" such as NGOs and other organizations which have a stake in sustainable



22
development. The NEAF is designed to facilitate such a participative process for
environmental management capacity building for sustainable development in Gujarat.
58.   The use of NEAF would be piloted in Gujarat which is experiencing rapid
industrialization, infrastructure development, and urbanization. All of this leads to certain
adverse environmental impacts, particularly by chemical industries, mining, hazardous waste
disposal, and industrial air and water pollution. Gujarat also has ecologically fragile areas
such as Gulf of Kachch, including its Rann, Gulf of Khambat and some Protected Areas. In
order to anticipate, prevent and mitigate such adverse environmental impacts, the Government
of Gujarat (GOG) is also planning to prepare a State Environment Action Program (SEAP) in
line with the Environment Action Program (EAP) which the Government of India issued in
December 1993. The preparation of SEAP would be coordinated by GOG's Department of
Forests and Environment and Gujarat Ecology Commission. The NEAF would facilitate the
participatory process of the preparation of the SEAP. As part of the SEAP process, NGOs
would be involved in (a) review of Gujarat's Environmental Status Report through a series of
consultations, public hearings, workshops and seminars; (b) implementation of priority
selected studies or surveys identified by the SEAP Steering Committee; (c) review of hot spot
mitigation plans; and (d) review of long-term strategies being endorsed in the draft SEAP.
The NEAF in particular will be used by NGOs to concentrate on environmental actions that
would anticipate, prevent, and mitigate adverse environmental impacts. The NEAF will be
administered by a Committee for NGO Environmental Action Fund.
59.   The Committee for NGO Environmental Action Fund (COMNEAF) which will
administer the NEAF will have full administrative and financial authority to manage and
administer it in a transparent and participatory manner that would involve only the members
of COMNEAF. The COMNEAF will consist of the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of
Forests and Environment as Chairman; the Chairman and Member Secretary of the Gujarat
Ecology Comnmission; the Secretary of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board; one
representative of MOEF; the Secretary, Industry and Mines Department, (GOG), the Secretary
of Water Supply in the Departement of Health and Family Welfare (GOG); and
representatives from industries and NGOs as members. The Member-Secretary, Gujarat
Ecology Commission will be the Secretary of COMNEAF which will meet at least once every
three months, will maintain the Minutes of the meetings and records of the Committee.
COMNEAF will have the authority to receive, consider, and approve proposals for funding
under NEAF, and also to regularly monitor and evaluate the programs funded by it directly
and indirectly through consultants and other organizations that are approved by the
Committee. The Committee will formulate its own process of decision-making through a
participatory process after it has been constituted.
60.   NGOs which have an interest in sustainable development and are actively involved in
environmental management of different eco-system and at different levels - Gram Panchayat,
town, block, district and state would be eligible for funding from the NEAF. The following
criteria would be used to select and involve appropriate NGOs. They should have: (a) been a
Registered Society, Trust, Educational or an Industrial institution which has been registered
under a relevant act in Gujarat that authorizes it to undertake actions that could be funded



23
from NEAF; (b) completed a minimum of three years since registration and fulfilled the
mandatory requirements of the relevant Act under which it is registered such as the Annual
Audit of Account. Some relaxation of this criteria may be considered on a case-by-case basis
by COMNEAF; (c) demonstrated experience and presence in environment management,
including action-research, education, training, consumer rights, rural development; urban
development, and ecodevelopment; (d) appropriate professional skills and experience which
are necessary to successful research, planning, implementing, and monitoring a program
through a process of participation involving the community, comnmunity based organizations
(CBOs) and Gram Panchayats; and (e) have a clearer understanding of the relations between
people and their environment and also their environmental, social, economic and cultural
impacts on communities including tribals and women. In order to facilitate direct participation
of the people, elected Gram Panchyats will also be considered to be stakeholders, who are
eligible to receive funds from NEAF on the basis of Special Action Plans that are in
accordance with the criteria for funding.
61.   The Fund would support programs that would help to anticipate, avoid, and mitigate
adverse environrmental impacts centering around emergency and specific environmental
problems emanating from chemical industries, mining, waste disposal, and protection of
ecologically fragile areas. The program would be multi-level based and participatory oriented.
Priorities for funding would be for: (a) preparation of State of Gujarat's Environment; State
of District Environment (for each District); and State of Eco-system (for each eco-system and
Protected Area); (b) action plans for mitigating specific environmental problems at different
levels; (c) actions plans for participative management of village common properties,
ecologically fragile areas such as forest lands, coastal areas and desert areas; (d) ensuring
compliance of environmental acts by organizing participatory public hearings and "social
audit" by Citizens Groups, CBOs, and NGOs; (e) organizing training of staff of NGOs,
members of Gram Panchayats, community leaders, teachers, consultants and their staff to
enhance environmental capacity and protection; (f) curriculum for environmental education to
be used at primary and high schools as an integral part of study; (g) materials for
environmental education, training and campaigns; (h) formulation and demonstration of
environmentally non-degrading, technically appropriate and socially acceptable technologies
for sustainable development; and (i) environmental upgrading of private sector that is
participative and socially acceptable, through a transparent and participative process.



24
D. Strengthening the Implementation of Environmental Law (Proposed Outlay
US$ 4.15 million).
The component of the project includes one subcomponent with three parts.
62.   Environmental Law (US$4.15 million).  ! Tecli- IIa-Assiance
India  has  a  comprehensive  framework  of  co*Et-
environmental  legislation   and  regulations.       p                  Mgatiate -  70sff imonth
Although there are some areas of substantive law   Local             155 stafftmonthl
that need  to  be further clarified, there is       .Contactual Staff  .65staff.mo....
consensus in the Indian legal community that the   Trainig
priority in the area of environmental law is the    0  Vtseas        60 stafnomths.
development of legal capacity to assist effective  4Loca             400dstaff months91
implementation of existing laws. From a legal  -      We d materials
perspective, the main challenge to improve implementation of laws is to strengthen voluntary
compliance with laws as well as capacity to monitor and enforce laws. There is wide
recognition that both these objectives involve very complex issues relating not only to legal
rules and institutions, but also to the broader processes by which communities and individuals
define their relationship with the natural environment. It is a continuing process, rather than a
finite objective.
63.   With this perspective, the project will assist in strengthening voluntary compliance, as
well as capacity for enforcement. The approach of the legal component rests on the
assumption that, in the long-term communities will play a central role in this effort. Through a
bottom-up, participatory approach based on traditional approaches to compliance with law and
norms governing environmental resource use, the Project will support the development of
specific actionable strategies to reduce the gap between law and practice.
64.   The Project will support strengthening of legal infrastructure for implementation of
environmental law by:
(a)   the provision of training in environmental law (including international aspects)
to legal staff of the MOEF, CPCB, and SPCBs, as well as industrial managers
and non-governmental organizations;
(b)    ensuring that suitably qualified environmental lawyers are available as follow:
(i) at least two lawyers for each SPCB; (ii) at least four lawyers at the CPCB;
(iii) at least three lawyers at MOEF; and
(c)    establishing a computerized environmental law network which will provide
current information on environmental law and regulations at the national and
state levels.
65.   The Project will also support the development of community-based environmental
decision-making and dispute resolution. This component will seek to assist the enhancement
of decentralization and devolution of environmental law administration, while maintaining the



25
appropriate role of central and state authorities for policy setting and enforcement. In
empowering communities in this regard, traditional panchayats and other instruments of local
government established in India under its recent Panchayat Raj legislation would have a
central role. The Project will identify ways through which communities and affected groups,
as well as individuals (particularly in the local context) may be better informed about laws and
regulation, participate in key decisions under the environmental statutes, and have
responsibility for monitoring compliance. To this end, the Project will support studies that will
develop strategies such as for:
(a)   the delegation and devolution of selected responsibilities under environmental
laws to villages, panchayats and municipalities including the provision of
technical and advisory services to them from non-governmental sources;
information access and dissemination to affected communities and the public at
large, including the establishment of information centers at the state and district
levels;
(b)   instituting public hearings related to key environmental decisions such as siting
of new industries, as well as implementation of remediation measures; and
(c)   establishment of capacity in communities for monitoring compliance with laws
including for the collection and provision of data as evidence of compliance
under environmental laws; and
(d)   building legal capacity of non-governmental organizations for monitoring
compliance with environmental laws, regulations and decisions, with emphasis
on highly polluted areas.
The Project will support piloting and the initial implementation of these strategies once they
are discussed and agreed with the Government. The Project will support specific proposals on
a grant basis. The outputs of the research program supported under the Project will provide
valuable inputs for the development of these strategies.
66.   Effective non-litigatory remedies for affected persons/communities. This will involve
establishment of decentralized administrative review procedures accessible to local
communities and affected members of the public, which will not require the use of formal
legal procedures. These review procedures, which would be modeled along the successful
experience of India with "Lok Adalat" forums (community-based mediation), would provide
easily accessible and local forums for public hearings and initial resolution of environmental
grievances. In addition, the strategy will propose ways to use mediation and conciliation as
well as traditional approaches to dispute settlement. Support would be provided for the
implementation of the strategy in selected highly polluted areas through supporting
development of institutional capacity in this regard.



26
67.   Strengthening of legal research and legal education in environmental law would be
achieved by:
(a)   establishment of a Center for Law and the Environment a selected Law School
in India as a center for excellence in environmental law, consisting of the
provision of a full-time faculty position; the Center will be responsible of
establishing relationships with the Law Schools in India providing teaching in
environmental law; development of a core syllabus and curriculum to train
teachers of environmental law; development of syllabus and teaching materials
(including a case book) for teaching environmental law in Indian Law Schools;
and the provision of resources for the establishment of a library of
environmental law at the Center with a core international collection; as well as
provision of books and materials to selected law school libraries;
(b)   assessment of the scope and coverage of existing laws to effectively achieve
policy objectives, including effective coordination between various environ-
mental laws and regulations;
(c)   a program of empirical research into the role of law in environmental matters in
India that would establish a body of scholarly information on (i) traditional and
customary laws governing access to and use of natural resources and the
resolution of disputes related thereto; (ii) use of law and legal remedies by
individuals and communities in India in relation to environmental matters,
including environmental disputes in courts; and (iii) use of law to achieve
priority policy objectives. The research program will produce a report in each
of the above areas, with specific recommendations for consideration by the
Government; and
(d)   environmental law publication: the Project will support the establishment of a
high quality publication on environmental law, to be published by a selected
Law School in India.
E. Strengthening Environmental Monitoring and Compliance in Specific High-Priority
Problem Areas (Proposed Outlay US$ 26.93 million).
This component includes four sub-components as follows:
68.   Mining Sector (US$6.31 million). The  TecniclAsistanc
main objective of this sub-component is to  0ConsutAnts
strengthen the national capacity for environmental                       raExpatriate  116 staxt
the mining  Local            530 staffnmonths_.
monitoring and implementation in the mining    raining
sector (paras. 26-31). More specifically, this sub-  Overseas      50 staff months
component aims to enhance the capabilities of the  Local           400 staff months
concerned central (CPCB, Regional Offices of  Equipment and materials



27
MOEF) and State agencies (Departments of Enviromnent, Mining and Geology Departments,
and State Pollution Control boards) in developing and monitoring the compliance of local
policies, EMPs, and appropriate environmental standards for all mining projects. The existing
mining institutions such as the Center for Mining Environment, Dhanbad; Indian Bureau of
Mines, and others will be strengthened in the planning and design of environmentally benignl
mining projects, and become a resource group for MOEF, state Departments of Environment,
CPCB and State Pollution Control Boards.
69.   The following four major activities are envisaged: (a) review  of existing
policies/standards and their compliance mechanisms; (b) institutional strengthening; (c)
training; and (d) demonstration projects. All four activities are inter-related and will be
carefully phased and coordinated to achieve the objective. For example, the review will help
identify institutional needs, the demonstration projects will provide specialized training
opportunities and generate information that will strengthen the institution.
70.   Review of policies/standards and their compliance mechanisms is expected to produce
four main outcomes: (a) an inventory analysis of existing environmental and mine leasing
policies, with respect to environmental and social concerns, and the roles and responsibilities
of various agencies at central, state and local levels in implementing these policies; (b)
identification of institutional and technical barriers to compliance with existing policies and in
promoting environmentally benign mining designs and mitigation practices; (c) generation or
policy options and standards for major and minor minerals mining projects; and (d)
unambiguous definition of roles and responsibilities of multiple agencies which will be
complementary to each other. This review will also provide feedback to the other sub-
component--strengthening of Regional Offices of MOEF, in the context of monitoring the
compliance of EMPs for mining projects. While the local consultants would carry out the
review, foreign consultants would bring in international experiences in formulating policies
and standards.
71.   Institutional strengthening activity is expected to cover two sets of institutions. One
set consists of government agencies at central (Indian Bureau of Mines, the MOEF and
CPCB) and state (Department of Forests and Environment, Regional Offices of MOEF, and
State Pollution Control Boards) level who are responsible for policy making, standard setting
and enforcement. These agencies will be strengthened to: (a) enhance their capacity to
monitor the compliance of EMPs and the prescribed environmental standards by mine
operators; and (b) establish an effective data management system and a computer network
among these agencies to assist the sharing of information and decision making processes. The
other set of institutions are the Centers of Excellence and research agencies working in the
field of mining. These will be strengthened to: (a) develop their expertise in planning,
design, and implementation of environmentally benign mine designs; (b) become a resource



28
group for the government agencies described above, in discharging their responsibilities and
for the miners in implementation of environmentally benign designs; and (c) carry out specific
research/studies to equip the Indian mine sector with latest developments. Equipment and
instruments for field research and surveys required for achieving these outputs will be
provided. In order to bring in international experience and state of the art technological
developments in mining, twinning arrangements with reputed mining institutions in developed
countries, where mining is a major economic activity will be provided.
72.   Best practice demonstration projects for specific mitigation measures, such as land
reclamation, closure of old abandoned mines, regeneration of regional ecology, etc. offer
many advantages. One is to develop feasible mitigation measures and techniques for major
mineral mining projects. Another is to train mine operators in instilling the principles of
planning, design, implementation, and monitoring the mitigation measures. Also, these
projects generate information that can be used for policy and decision making. The procedures
and criteria for selection, funding, and implementation of demonstration projects/mitigation
measures have to be developed. Three major outcomes are expected from the demonstration
projects i.e.: a limited number of successful demonstrations of EMPs; an analysis of the
project outcomes and feedback for policy making and standards setting processes; and
technical and management guidelines for different minerals mining projects.
73.   Training of key staff members of the above-described institutions would be an
essential input for realizing the objective of this sub-project. Depending on the target groups
and their specific needs, specialized training programs will be organized within and outside
India. The broad areas would be: planning, design and implementation of environmentally
benign designs, development and monitoring compliance of policies, standards, EMPs, etc.,
74.   Industry   Siting   (Zoning   Atlas)
(US$8.44 million). The CPCB has proposed a  Cns ultants'
five-year program  to map all of the rapidly    Eptatemts
industrializing districts across India, using the  Lcal.          680 staff mos.
same technology and methodology used in the   Training
pilot mapping program (para. 35). In addition,  Overseas          120 Gstaf mnhs.
Local.           980 staff months.
the plan includes components for state.-WideEq,enadmaeal
mapping  of  ecologically  sensitive  areas,
proposed sites for new industrial estates, and the drafting of national guidelines for industrial
siting and land use planning. The work program would be managed by the Environmental
Planning Studio in the CPCB, with institutional linkages via the SPCBs to the state and
district level planning authorities in each state. The objective of this sub-component is to
involve district, state, and central level environmental and planning agencies in the shared task
of creating environmental thematic district-level maps, following the methodology already
developed by the CPCB. This sub-component will focus on training many of the map end-
users who are currently unfamiliar with the use of environmental maps in planning and
industrial siting.



29
75.   This sub-component will include:
(a)    updating the draft guidelines for preparing zoning atlases, to be made available
to all map users.
(b)   including of up to 65 more districts in the mapping program, which will require
the installation of environmental planning studies in each of the participating
SPCBs, with the requisite hardware, software, and training to be supervised by
the core CPCB team.
(c)   identifying, in those districts with completed maps, both unsuitable and
suitable sites for industry and industrial estates. Then, provisional guidelines
for industrial estate siting will be developed and tested, finalized and
implemented in all districts with completed maps.
(d)   drafting, starting with a case study in Gujarat, guidelines for industrial
development and land-use planning on the state level, taking into account a
broad range of industry, urban, agricultural, forest, and ecologically sensitive
(and perhaps protected) areas.
76.   Ambient Air Pollution Monitoring
(US$ 6.47 million). The objective of this
sub-component is to assist the Central         Eptt1a                      h
Pollution Control Board in upgrading India's   LoWal             240 staff months
air  pollution  monitoring  system.  The   Training
upgrading is needed to bring India's air       Local             200 staff    --onts
pollution  reporting  up  to  a  sufficient   qi    ad materials
standard to allow: (a) emissions inventories of critical air pollutants to be completed for
India's major cities, including ambient monitoring of some key pollutants that impact o n
human health that are not currently sampled (such as fine particulates); (b) cost-effectiveness
analysis of air pollution control strategies that link source reduction strategies with down-wind
ambient impacts; and (c) reliable analysis of trends over time. Although India has a base
network in place of over 200 fixed air monitoring stations nation-wide, the technology
employed has been shown to contain some inaccuracies. Also, the proposed upgrading will
increase somewhat the geographic coverage of the air monitoring system. The subcomponent
would build on the recommendations for improving air pollution monitoring from the State



30
Pollution Control Boards, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI),
and the current GTZ technical assistance project with the SPCBs. It would help finance the
purchase of more accurate air pollution monitoring equipment, provide training to staff of the
CPCB and SPCBs on equipment use, and provide training on the preliminary analysis and
reporting of results.
77.   Coastal and Marine Area Management   TechniculAssce
(US$5.71 million). To assist in the development   u4ows
of comprehensive  coastal and  marine  area       Expatiiate        6 staff monts.
management the project would support the: (a)     Local             405 staffionths..'.
development of a GIS-based information system   Tr Contat Staff     172 staff monhs
for critical habitats in the coastal marine areas of    aining
Overseas          15 staff monthfs
India; (b) preparation of model Integrated Coastal  Local          342 staff months
and  Marine  Area  Management Plans;  (c)  Equipen an         h4hmaterials
conducting waste assimilation capacity and
ecological modeling of selected coastal areas; and (d) development of Environmental Impact
Assessment guidelines for major marine and coastal area developmental activities.
78.   Development of GIS-based Critical Habitats Information System for Coastal Marine
Areas in India To develop and maintain GIS-based databases for assessing and managing
critical habitats and their resources, the project will support: (a) a review of the availability of
existing data and collecting data on relevant parameters for critical habitats; (b) preparation of
Critical Habitats Area Maps on 1:25,000 scale using IRS LISS-II satellite data; (c) integration of
satellite and field data using the ARC/INFO GIS software and development of a GIS-based
Critical Habitat Information System (CHIS); (d) interpretation and analysis of data to provide
plans for efficient monitoring and management of critical habitats; and (e) organizing end-user
training-cum-workshops for selected coastal state governments and other end-users to promote
the adoption of CHIS in the management of critical habitats. The expected outcome of the above
activities would be a CHIS for the coastal and marine areas of India including the Lakshwadeep
and Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the form of computer package with a user-interactive
menu; output maps to delineate where critical habitats have to be conserved; end-user utilization
programs; and a Final Report with plans for sustainable development of critical habitats in
coastal and marine areas. The institutions which would be responsible for collection of
ground/sea-truth data for the critical habitats are shown in Box 1.



31
Box: 1. Proposed Institutions to be Involved in Collection of Ground/Sea-Truth Data
In%fitute                                                                   Trask
Project Directorate, ENVIS Centers for MOEF, National     Development of CHIS for selected critical habitats.
Institute of Oceanography, Anna University, Zoological and
Botanical Survey of India, Central Salt & Marine Chemicals
Res. Institute, Orissa Remote Sensing Center
Institute for Ocean Management, Anna University, Madras   Collection of satellite based data and preparation of
and Space Application Center, Ahmedabad and State Remote    maps required
Sensing Application Centers in Maharashtra, Karnataka,
Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal
National Institute of Oceanography, Goa and its regional  Physical, chemical and biological aspects of critical
centers at Bombay, Cochin & Visakhapatnam                 habitats in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, parts of
Kamataka, Kerala & Andhra except on mangroves,
seaweeds and sea grasses
Botanical Survey of India                                 Mangroves & seaweeds all over India
Zoological Survey of India                                Bio-diversity of marine animnals in all critical habitats
particularly on Invertebrates
M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation
Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Cochin       Seasonal occurrence and distribution of commercially
important shell and fm fishes along coastal marine
Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore  areas
Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute,     Seasonal occurrence and distribution of commercially
Bhavnagar                                                 important seaweeds along coastal marine areas
Fisheries College, Mangalore Cochin University, Cochin    Data on Marine organisms of the critical habitats
Kerala University, Trivandrum Madurai Kamraj University,   located in the respective States (locations of the
Madurai Annamalai University, Parangipettai Bharathidasan   Institute/University) and all other infornation like
University, Trichy Andhra University, Visakhapatnam       Primary and secondary production.
Berhampur University, Berhampur University of Calcutta,
Calcutta Genetic Resource Center, Lucknow
Center for Earth Science Studies, Trivandrum; Central Water   Data on coastal erosion, accretion in all critical
& Power Research Station, Pune; Regional Engineering      habitats.
College, Suratkal; Central Beach Erosion Control Board
79.    Preparation of Model Integrated Coastal and Marine Area Management Plans.  The
major objective of this activity is to develop capabilities in the development of Integrated
Coastal and Marine Area Management Plans (ICMAMPs) in India; and establish training
programs to build capacity in the coastal states to prepare ICMAMPs. To achieve these
objectives, the project would support: overseas training of scientists on the methodologies



32
involved in the development of ICMAMPs; developing model ICMAMPs; establishing training
programs in India for planners, scientists, NGOs, environmental consultants, educators, and
university students in coastal states; and assisting coastal States (Gujarat in particular) in the
development of ICMAMPs and assisting DOD in the evaluation of these plans.
80.   Several developed countries have adopted integrated coastal area management. In order
to quickly acquire the knowledge and facilitate immediate development of ICMAMPs in India, it
is necessary to expose scientists and planners to this concept through fellowship training
overseas. After the completion of the overseas training program, trainees will become the full or
part-time trainers in the courses proposed to be organized under the project. The development of
model plans is also critical. Therefore, using the knowledge acquired through experts services
and overseas training, model ICMAMPs along with requisite GIS-based information system will
be prepared for two or three selected areas among Madras, Cochin, Goa and Mumbai. The
establishment of a training center as a part of the Project Directorate at Madras to provide
training in the preparation of ICMAMPs, will help the sectoral governments in developing
expertise in the development of ICMAMPs and facilitate quick development of the plans.
Courses to be provided include: (a) theoretical courses on coastal marine activities and their
impact on environment; (b) requirements for preparation of ICMAMPs and relevance of GIS-
based infornation system techniques as a technical aid and pre-requisite in the development of
ICMAMP; (c) adoption of use-classification and zoning concepts in the preparation of
ICMAMPs; and (d) development of ICMAMPs with examples of model plans. Institutions like
the National Institute of Oceanography will be involved in the preparation of ICMAMPs.
81.   Waste Assimilation Capacity and Ecological Modeling of Selected Coastal Areas. The
project would support Waste Load Allocation (WLAs) studies for three estuarine
environments which face water quality problems because of urban and industrial
development. These systems are the Tapi estuary, Cochin backwaters, and Ennore estuary.
The project would help develop indigenous expertise in this area and generate further WLA
programs for the remaining riverine and coastal waterways. The output of the project over five
years would be: a report on water quantity and quality uses for the three surface water bodies;
calibrated and validated models for dissolved oxygen and eco-toxicity; a management plan or
waste load allocation for the three sites; recommendations to the State Pollution Control
Boards (SPCBs) accompanied by a preliminary cost-benefit analysis, and social implications;
and guidelines to DOD/CPCB on how to conduct WLAs in remaining coastal waters. The
institutions which would be involved are shown on Box 2.



33
X  E 5pwed  Institutions for Waste Loand Allocation Programs
Institution                                         Task
Project Directorate                         Overall coordination of the program and participation in
modeling studies in Ennore estuary/Cochin backwaters
Lead Institutions
Central & State Pollution Control Boards    Determination of use classification of three areas and
determination of water quality criteria
Center for Earth Sciences Studies (CESS), RITES  Collection of data on tides, currents and
bathymetry
CESS, Central Electro-chemical Research Insti-    Collection of data on chemical and microbiological
tute, Central Marine Fisheries Research Inst.,  parameters
Regional Center NIO, Cochin, Cochin University
Central and State Pollution Control Boards  Information on existing and proposed discharges,
monitoring of discharges and participation in modeling
studies
82.    Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines for  Marine  and  Coastal Area
Developmental Activities. The objectives of the activity are to review existing literature and
similar EIA statements and develop an understanding of the impacts of developmental
projects; and develop guidelines for EIAs of key development projects. The deliverables
would be: (a) guidelines for conducting EIA for marine developmental projects. The
guidelines would be available for individual projects and also as a reference volume; (b) a
Resource Center with a compilation of data for easy implementation of marine ElAs. This
resource center will be established as an INTERNET Web Site; (c) a minimum of four
training programs for planners and government officials; NGOs; industrial and environmental
consultants; and educators and university students; (d) a Final Report including the guidelines,
case studies, summary of available data and facilities, and feedback from end-users and course
participants; (e) recommendations to the Ministry of Environment and Forests and
Department of Ocean Development for inclusion in EIA notifications and guidelines, and
implementation in regulatory activities; and (f) guidelines for accrediting environmental
consultants and institutions. The institutes involved in this task are shown in Box 3.



34
Box: 3. Proposed Institutions To Be Involved in Coastal and Marine Area Developmental
Activities
...... . .   ......           ... ..... ... .          .. ...... .  ..  ...... .  ... ........ .. ......_..... . ...... . ... ._..... _.. _..__
Institute of Ocean  Management, Anna University,  Compile digitized coastal and coastal data relevant
Madras                                             for conducting EIA studies
Space Application Center, Ahmedabad
State  Remote  Sensing  Centers  of  Maharashtra,
Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa
and West Bengal
DOD's National Ocean Information Centers (NOIS)
National Institute of Ocean Technology
Project Directorate, Madras and National Institute of  Compilation of digitized data, technical reports, EIA
Ocean Technology                                   reports, data, journal and text books. Access data
from   INTERNET   and   other  international
institutions. Formulate project outlines and organize
case studies.
Establish INTERNET Web Site, final guidelines,
final report, training program
National  Institute   of  Oceanography,  National  Collecting ground/sea truths to validate remote
Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Center for  sensing  data.  Conducting  case  studies  and
Earth Science Studies, Center for Taxonomic Studies, St.  preliminary guidelines.
Joseph's College, Annamalai University, Cochin
University, Andhra University, IIT, Madras, Bombay and
Kharagpur
State and Central Pollution Control Boards         Compilation  of current Indian  EIA  reports.
Guidelines to accredit institutions and consultants to
conduct ElAs.
F. Gujarat (Proposed Outlay US$7.33 million)
This component of the project includes 2 subcomponents.
83.    Gujarat is the fastest industrializing state in India. Investments in the state are expected
to reach about Rs. 730 billion over the next few years. Of this, Rs. 430 billion would be in
highly polluting bulk drugs, chemical and dye industries, and port development projects. Ten
sites have already been identified for port development. Therefore, in addition to the
assistance to be provided for the development of Integrated Coastal and Marine Area
Management Plans (ICMAMP) (para. 79-80); the development of State-wide environmental
indicators and indices (para. 46-48); and the NGO Environmental Action Fund (Para. 56-61),
Gujarat will also be supported in two additional specific activities.



35
84.   Institutional Strengthening (US$6.28   TeclnkalAssstnce    -
million).   Support would be provided to  Consultants
strengthen the Department of Forests and       Expatriate        36 staff monfts
Environment  and  the  Gujarat  Ecology        Local             740 staff months
Contractual Staff  320 staff mnthis
Commission. These, and the Gujarat Pollution   Training
Control Board which is being strengthened      Overseas i70 staffmonths
under  ongoing   Bank-assisted  Industrial     Local             240 staff montths
Pollution  Control and  Industrial Pollution  Equipment and materials
Prevention   projects,  are  the  principal
environmental management institutions in the State, and the assistance would be designed to
enhance data and information collection, analysis, policy formulation, implementation and
monitoring of compliance with laws and standards in high priority areas. The environmental
management institutions in the State would be further strengthened through the preparation of
environmental indicators, industrial siting, coastal and marine area management planning, and
the environmental economics, information and research components.
85.   State Environmental Action Program. (US$ 1.05 million). A major output of the
institutional strengthening program in Gujarat is the preparation of a State Environment
Action Program  (SEAP) with the active cooperation and coordination of all relevant
government departments, industry, NGOs, and others through a series of workshops,
seminars, and consultations. The SEAP would be coordinated by the Department of Forests
and Environment Given the background of rapid economic development, the agenda for
environmental action in Gujarat is enormous. The government needs to prioritize the areas for
action so that maximum benefits can be available with the available resources in the shortest
possible time. In accordance with the extensive international experience accumulated in the
preparation of National Environmental Action Plans, a three-stage process will be followed
during the preparation of the State's Environmental Action Program. The First Stage would
have a duration of about 6 months and would consist of the following activities: (a)
identification of known coordination and participatory consultative mechanisms; (b) naming a
high-level advisory committee responsible for overall supervision of the SEAP in the three
stages, obtaining official approval of the SEAP, and for the allocation of necessary resources;
(c) establishing technical working groups to deal with each priority environmental problem,
made up of representatives of the relevant agencies and the NGOs, and other experts; and (d)
identifying appropriate public participation mechanisms to stimulate a wide debate on priority
environmental problems and their respective solutions, and to obtain public consensus on
these.
86.   Preparation of a rapid environmental status report based on secondary sources of
information in order to develop a reliable database would be undertaken. This activity will
also utilize appropriate public participation mechanisms such as interviews, round tables, and
discussions with groups affected by a given environmental problem. The preparation of
specific TORs for preliminary studies in which alternative solutions to the priority problems
identified at this stage will also be determined. Three types of studies are envisaged: (a)
priority studies relating to environmental problems needing immediate resolution; (b) a study
defining the long-term strategy with regard to current environmental problems, to ensure that



36
the existing conditions do not deteriorate further; and (c) a study defining the medium- and
long-term strategies to resolve emerging environmental problems. In this case, preventive
measures, legal reform and institutional priorities would be suggested, which may lead to
further studies, for example, on new institutional arrangements or the design of economic
instruments.
87.   The Second Stage in preparing the SEAP should last about 12 months and would
consist of: (a) the execution of studies identified during the first stage. These studies will be
carried out by the appropriate technical working groups, with the support of the specialized
consultants; and (b) the review and approval of the completed studies by the government.
Political support and confirmation of respective political decisions will have to be sought to
ensure that the recommended action to resolve an environmental problem is actually taken.
88.   The Third Stage would have a duration of 3-6 months and would involve: (a) the
preparation of a report on the SEAP based on the conclusions of the studies and the
agreements obtained through the consultative process. The SEAP will serve to orient
environmental management, assign specific responsibilities to agencies, and propose
environmental projects, together with their respective budgets. It will also assist to orient the
environmental activities and responsibility of the private sector and the NGOs; and (b) the
elaboration of the priority investment projects in order to present them to possible financing
sources. This development of SEAP will be managed by the Department of Forests and
Environment and the Gujarat Ecology Commission under direct supervision of the high level
Advisory Committee. The project would support the overall institutional development effort
in Gujarat by financing about 40 staff months of expatriate consultant services; over 1800
staff months of local consultants; about 70 staff months of overseas training; and over 400
staff months of in-country training; equipment and materials.
G.   Project Costs and Financing
89.   The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes is estimated at Rs. 2,619.0
million or US$61.48 million equivalent. The breakdown of costs of the proposed project by
component and categories of expenditure is summarized in Schedule B of the Memorandum
of the President.
90.   The estimated total project cost of US$61.48 million would be financed by an IDA
Credit of SDR 34.7 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) which would cover about 82 % of
costs net of taxes. Duties and taxes are estimated to be equivalent to US$0.84 million. The
GOI would finance the remaining net costs of and all taxes. The financing plan by project
component and by categories of expenditure is outlined in Schedule B of the Memorandum of
the President.



37
3. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION/COORDINATION ARRANGEMENTS
91.   The Ministry of Environment and Forests would be responsible for ensuring overall
coordination among the various ministries and institutions involved in the implementation of
the project. A National Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary, MOEF and including
the Secretary of the Department of Ocean Development, the Chairman of the Central Pollution
Control Board; the Chief Secretary, Gujarat or his representative, and a representative from
the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, has been established to ensure the
timely flow of funds, orderly reporting on project implementation, and the resolution of
implementation issues as soon as they arise. The National Steering Committee would be
serviced by a Project Cell which has been established in the MOEF with responsibilities for
coordinating procurement, disbursements, accounting, and monitoring of project progress and
impact. During negotiations, the government provided an assurances that it would: (a) carry
out the project in accordance with an implementation plan satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) maintain the NSC and Expert Committees (paras. 95, 100, 101) each with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
92.   The organization chart of the MOEF (Attachment 2 Figure 3) shows that it is
structured around a number of specialized Divisions. The government has confirmed that
specific sub-components (Paras. 40-50; 53-55; and 62-76) will be directly managed by the
MOEF or under the coordination of MOEF.
93.   The Environmental Research Division would ensure that the technical assistance
program (para. 40) covers the local universities and research institutions involved in the
Environmnent Research Program. Institutional linkages would be established with international
environmental research institutions.
94.   The Environment Information Division would be the focal point for the environmental
information subcomponent (paras. 41-42). Only local consultants would be required to work
closely with the existing ENVIS Centers which include among others, the CPCB; the
Industrial Toxicology Research Center, Development Alternatives (an NGO); Center for
Environment studies, Anna University; Tata Energy Research Institute; Center for Ecological
Sciences; the World Wide Fund for Nature -India; Environmental Planning and Coordination
Organization; National Institute of Occupational Health; Central Arid Zone Research Institute;
Center for Advanced Studies in Marine Biology; NEERI; G. B. Pant Institute of Himalayan
Environment and Development; and the School of Planning and Architecture.
95.   Since under the project an Environmental Economics Indicators, and Project Planning
Cell is to be established in the MOEF, the environmental economics subcomponent (paras.
43-44) would be initially managed by an Expert Committee which has been established by the



38
MOEF and includes representatives from the core group of environmental economic institutes
in India. These include the Madras School of Economics which will be the coordinating
institution; the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research; the Institute of Economic
Growth; and the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. A second group of interested
universities and institutes, such as the Delhi School of Economics, the Gokale Institute of
Politics and Economics, the India Institute of Technology, Bombay; the Jawaharlal Nehru
University Center for Environmental Sciences,; the Administrative Staff College, Hyderabad;
the School for Social and Economic Change in Bangalore will also be involved. During
negotiations, the government provided an assurance that by August 31, 1997 it would
establish and thereafter maintain an Environmental Economics, Indicators, and Project
Planning Cell (EEIPPC) with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
96.   The Environmental Indicators and Indices subcomponent (paras. 46-48) would be
centered in the EEIPPC and International Cooperation Division of the MOEF, and the
Departments of Finance, and Forests and Environment in Gujarat. Expatriate and local
consultants would work with these Divisions/Departments and other Indian Universities to
develop the Indicators and Indices similar to indicators developed for China, Indonesia,
Pakistan, Nepal, Philippines, and the Marshall Islands by the Asian Development Bank and
the Government of Norway. During negotiations, the government provided assurances that it
would: (a) cause the MOEF and Gujarat to prepare environmental indicators and indices by
December 31, 1998, (b) cause MOEF and Gujarat to employ the indicators and indices in the
evaluation of investment projects by April 30, 1999; and (c) ensure that MOEF and Gujarat
would publish annual environment status reports employing the indicators and indices
developed by April 30, 1999.
97.   The MOEF's Regional Office Division at the center would manage the technical
assistance program which is targeted at strengthening the six Regional Offices in the
monitoring of EIA compliance. (para. 49). For strengthening the regional offices it is expected
that most of the technical assistance would be local consultants. During negotiations, the
government provided assurances that it would by December 31, 1997, complete the review (of
the functions, staffing, workload, and location); and commence the implementation of a plan
(including the appointment of additional staff, training of new and existing staff, and the
opening of additional Regional Offices if necessary) satisfactory to the Association to
strengthen the Regional Offices of the MOEF.
98.   The MOEF would also coordinate the implementation of the National Environmental
Awareness Campaign (paras 53-54), and Paryavaran Vahini program (para. 55). The
Environmental Education and Information Division in conjunction with the Center for
Environmental Education, Ahmedabad, C. P. Rama Aiyar Environmental Education Center,
and a wide range of NGOs would implement the NEAC and Paryavaran Vahini sub-
components.
99.   The MOEF has informed IDA of its intention to establish and maintain an
Implementation Cell headed by a full-time legal academic to be responsible for the
coordination and implementation of the environmental law subcomponent (paras. 62-67).



39
During negotiations, the government provided an assurance that it would take the necesssary
steps to strengthen the legal capacity of MOEF, CPCB, and SPCBs in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Association.
100.  The Central Pollution Control Board is another focal point for the receipt of, and
managing the implementation of technical assistance. It will be directly responsible for the
sub-components i.e. environmental standards (para. 45); industry siting/zonal atlas (paras. 74-
75); and expanding ambient air pollution monitoring (para. 76). Since the CPCB is a recipient
of technical assistance under the on-going Industrial Pollution Control and Industrial Pollution
Prevention projects, it is familiar with IDA procedures and requirements. It is expected that
the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) which has had a long-standing
relationship with the CPCB and has placed a number of long-term expatriate experts in CPCB
will be retained to assist in the implementation of the zonal atlas and ambient air monitoring
subcomponents.
101.  For the monitoring of compliance in the mining sector (paras. 68-73), the Division on
Mining in the MOEF would be responsible for the review of policies, standards and
enforcement mechanisms, and the Center for Mining and Environment would be responsible
for the design and implementation of demonstration projects. The government has established
an Expert Committee for the Mining Sector with representatives from the various institutes
involved in mining planning. These include the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute,
Central Mining Research Institute, the Indian School of Mines (Deemed University); Center
for Mining Environment; the Environmental Planning and Coordination Organization; the
Mineral Exploration Corporation; the Indian Bureau of Mines; and the Neyveli Lignite
Corporation.
102.  During negotiations, the government confirmed that the Department of Ocean
Development would implement the technical assistance program for the development of
integrated coastal and marine area management (paras. 77-82). It would establish a Project
Implementation Cell. It is expected that this program will require a significant amount of
expatriate specialist services and training. A "twining' relationship with one of the
internationally renowned oceanographic research and training institutions will be undertaken.
103.  During negotiations, the government confirmed that the Department of Forests and
Environment, Gujarat, with assistance from the Gujarat Ecology Commission; and the Gujarat
Pollution Control Board would be responsible for the implementation of the Gujarat
components of the project (paras. 83-88). Project funds would flow directly from the MOEF
to these Gujarat institutions. During negotiations, Gujarat agreed that it would establish by
August 31, 1997 and maintain a Project Implementation Cell in the Department of Forests and
Environment with responsibility to supervise the implementation of the project, with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. Institutional linkages with
Environmental Protection Agencies to implement exchange, training, and expert
assistance programs is being considered. The NGO Environmental Action Fund will be
managed by COMNEAF (para. 59) as determined by the Gujarat Department of Forests and
Environment. Criteria have been developed for the management of the Funds as well as for



40
Figure 1. Chart of Project Implementation Process
Centre                                                State                              District
(Indicators and Indices  
und ~     Cmunt
_                                i~~~~~~~~~~~~~roJect Directorate
l ICMA1IPS
_                         i   i  ~~~~~~~~~~~EIA Guidelines
-Critical Habitats GIS
_   i                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Water Assimil Uon Studies
_EnvIronmental,                                                                 CoGmmunity'
*NEAC
II   *Paryavaran
Project                                                                                               ;   Vahini
Steering                     Environmental                                                             , NGO
Committee                 _     EconormIcs                                                                  Env,t fironment
Environmental
Indicators            Regional Offices
:Reorganization Studies
_EiA Compliance In Mlning                        r
Environmental           *EiAIEMPs Compliance
__ _ ,AInformatoon                                                      4
_   _         ~~~~Environmental
_  Research
_Evronmental                       
Standards 
Advisol            _       _       ;     (C~~~~~~~PCB Zonal Ot Iess/SPCBs 
Committees   l                                          |*Ambient Air Monitoring                             ........
Economics                       _        _            |Industrial Siting/Zonal
Law          I                           _      '     tAtlasJ                             
Mining       |                                         '-'



41
NGOs access to the Fund. During negotiations, the government provided assurances that, it
would cause Gujarat to (a) establish, maintain, and operate commencing August 31, 1997, an
NGO Environmental Action Fund in accordance with arrangements and a time schedule
acceptable to the Association; (b) prepare a State Environment Action Program (SEAP) by
March 31, 1999; and (c) carry out the project in accordance with an implementation plan
satisfactory to the Association. The project implementation process is outlined in Figure 1.
B. PROCUREMENT
104. Goods and Equipment (US$10.35 million). Goods, in particular computers,
laboratory and scientific equipment would be procured using International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures. However equipment estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per
package up to an aggregate of US$2.00 million equivalent would be procured using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Standard Bidding Documents (January 1995) and
procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995) would be
used. For procurement under ICB procedures, national manufacturers would be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Small items of equipment would be
procured by the various agencies in small lots over the project period. Individual contracts are
not expected to exceed US$25,000 and as such would be procured using Shopping procedures
satisfactory to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$8.00 million equivalent. Rate contracts
of the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D), New Delhi would only be
acceptable as a substitute for procurement under Shopping, Training Materials and Books,
(periodicals, proprietary equipment/software, training materials and spare parts compatible
with existing equipment) valued at about US$2.01 million would be procured under Direct
Contracting procedures.
105.  Technical Assistance (Consultants, Contractual Staff, and Training): (US$53.95
million). Consultancies contractual and services for training would be provided by firms,
specialized training institutions and professional trainers (expatriate as well as local) and
would be hired following procedures presented in Bank Guidelines for use of Consultants
(August 1981) and use of Standard Forms of Contract for Consultants Services( June 1995)
and other models developed by the Bank from time to time.
106.  Contract Review. All goods and equipment contracts valued at US$200,000
equivalent and above and the first three contracts (proposed for competitive bidding -
regardless of value) would be subject to prior review by IDA as per procedure outlined in
Appendix 1 of Bank Guidelines. It is expected that this will result in prior review of about
40% of contracts awarded under ICB/NCB. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below
the threshold levels would be carried out by visiting review missions. Consultant contracts of
value exceeding US$100,000 equivalent per contract for consulting firms and US$50,000
equivalent for individuals, and the first contract for each Ministry/Executive Agency,



42
regardless of value, would be subject to prior review. However prior review would be required
for:
(a)   all consultant contracts above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals;
(b)   terms of reference for all contracts (regardless of value);
(c)   single source contracts, regardless of value (not applicable to contracts for
individuals);
(d)   all consultant contracts for assignments of a critical nature, regardless of value;
(e)   contract amendments valued at more than US$100,000 and US$50,000
equivalent for firms and individuals respectively or those that raise the total
contract value above these thresholds; and
(f)   any standard documents that the borrower intends to develop and use
repeatedly.
(g)   It is estimated that about 50% by value of the consultant contracts and training
services would be prior reviewed.
107. Procurement Arrangements. The Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF) has
agreed to acquire the services of a Procurement Agent for procurement of goods and
consultant services under the project. Procurement of a major share of the goods and
equipment, and hiring of consultants for training and the provision of expert services, would
be made by the Project Implementation Cell in MOEF with the assistance of the Procurement
Agent. Approval of contracts would be the responsibility of the Secretary of the respective
Ministry which is directly responsible for the implementation of the subcomponent assisted by
the technical and financial staff from the said Ministry and the Procurement Agent. The
Procurement Agent would also work closely with the Project Implementation Cells in the
Department of Ocean Development and in the Gujarat Department of Forests and
Environment to ensure that agreed bidding documents and procedures are used for the
procurement of all IDA-financed goods and services which are not procured centrally; and
that the accounts and documentation are maintained in a manner acceptable to IDA. The
government has prepared a procurement schedule for goods and equipment, showing the
packages and the timing of various procurement activities; draft bidding document along with
specifications etc. for the packages for which bids are to be invited in the first year of
implementation. The project elements, their estimated costs and the proposed methods of
procurement are summarized in Table 1. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to
be financed through the IDA Credit:



43
Table 1. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
ICB     NCB      Other      Total Costs
(US$million)
A. Goods and Equipment
Equipment                                       5.00      2.00      2.46       9.46
(2.00)    (0.80)    (1.00)     (3.80)
Training Materials and Books.                                       2.01       2.01
(0.80)     (0.80)
Consultancies and Training:
Consultants
Expatriate                                                       8.47        8.47
(8.47)     (8.47)
Local                                                           13.13       13.13
(11.16)    (11.16)
Contractual Staff Services                                          5.60        5.60
(4.76)     (4.76)
Training
Overseas                                                         10.74      10.74
(10.74)    (10.74)
Local                                                           12.08       12.08
(10.26)    (10.26)
Total                                        5.00      2.00     54.48       61.48
(2.00)    (0.80)   (47.20)    (50.00)
* other methods include shopping, direct contracting, hiring of consultants and training.
C.    DISBURSEMENTS
108. The proposed credit of SDR 34.7 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) will be
disbursed over a period of six years. This is realistic given the design of the project, and
especially because it involves the bringing to scale of several already completed pilot projects
as well as the gradual expansion of a number of on-going programs. The standard Bank-wide
disbursement profile for Technical Assistance projects is six and a half years.
109.  The Association will reimburse the Government for eligible expenditures incurred by
project agencies at a rate of 91% (100% for expatriate consultants, 85% for local consultants)
for all local and foreign expenditures on expert services, 91% (100% for overseas training,
85% for in-country training) for training, 40% for books and other training materials, and 40
percent for equipment. Disbursements in respect of contracts for goods and services estimated
to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent would be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) certified by the MOEF and retained by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, the
Department of Ocean Development, the Central Pollution Control Board, and the Department
of Forests and Environment, Gujarat, and made available for review by IDA during the course



44
of supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against fully-documented
withdrawal applications.
110.  In order to accelerate disbursements in respect of the Association's share of
expenditures pre-financed by the government, and in order to allow for direct payment of
other eligible local and foreign expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the
Reserve Bank of India with an initial deposit of US$3.0 million equivalent to cover four
months of expected requirements for IDA financed items. The full amount of the authorized
allocation may be requested when withdrawals and commitments from the credit account are
equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$ 10.0 million. The project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 2002, and closed by June 30, 2003. The allocation of credit proceeds and the
estimated credit disbursement schedule are shown in Tables 2 and 3. A forecast of
expenditures and disbursements is shown in Table 4.
Table 2: Allocation of Credit Proceeds (in US$ millions)
Categories of Expenditure      Amount of Credit    Percent of Expenditures
Allocated          to be Financed
Consultant Services                 17.00                  91
Contractual Staff Services          5.10                   91
Training                            18.90                  91
Materials and Books                 1.00                   40
Equipment                           3.50                   40
Unallocated                         4.50
Total      50.00
Table 3: Estimated Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year      FY97   FY98   FY99   FY2000   FY2001  FY2002   FY2003
US$million per year    3.00  1.60    11.60    13.74    11.32    7.74      1.00
US$ millions cumulative   3.00  4.60    16.20    29.94  41.26    49.00   50.00



45
Table 4. Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
(US$ million)
Expenditures           Disbursements /a      Cumulative    Semester
as %         from
IDA Fiscal Year      Semester  Cumulative   Semester   Cumulative /b    of Total     Appraisal
FY97
1st (Jul 96- Dec 96)          -           -           -            -             -            I
2nd (Jan 97-Jun97)           1.00        1.00       3.00          3.00          6 %           2
FY 98
1st (Jul 97-Dec 97)          1.00       2.00        1.48         3.80           7 %           3
2nd (Jan 98-Jun 98)          5.66        7.66        1.48         4.60          9 %           4
FY 99
1st (Jul 98-Dec 98)          8.66       16.32       6.80         10.40         21 %           5
2nd (Jan 99-Jun 99)          8.65       24.97       6.80         16.20         32 %           6
FY 2000
1 st (Jul 99-Dec 99)         8.65       33.62       6.87         23.07         46%            7
2nd (Jan 2000- Jun 2000)     6.58       40.20       6.87         29.94         60 %           8
FY 2001
i st (Jul 2000-Dec 2000)     6.59       46.79       5.66         35.60         71 %           9
2nd (Jan 2001-Jun 2001)      4.74       51.53       5.66         41.26         82 %           10
FY 2002
1st (Jul 2001- Dec 2001)     4.75       56.28       5.38         46.64          93%           11
2 nd (Jan 2002- Jun 2002)    3.20       59.48       2.36         49.00          98%           12
FY 2003
1st (Jul 2002- Dec 2002)     1.00       60.48       0.50         49.50          99%           13
2 nd (Jan 2003- Jun 2003)    1.00       61.48       0.50         50.00         100%           14
Closing Date:          June 30, 2003
a /:                   Figures may not appear to add due to rounding
b /:                   Disbursement projections take into account the Regional Profiles for similar type projects
D.   ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
111.   The Ministry of Environment and Forests and the other key project implementing
agencies i.e. DOD; CPCB, and Gujarat Department of Forests and Environment will establish
separate accounts to record eligible project expenditures and to allow for monitoring of
financial operations under the project. The Project Cell in Gujarat would prepare a
consolidated account for all project activities in the state. The Project Cell in MOEF will
prepare a consolidated project account. The project would be subject to normal government
accounting and auditing procedures which are considered satisfactory to the Association.
During negotiations, the government provided assurances that: (a) accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (b) statements of expenditure would be maintained in
accordance with sound accounting practices, be maintained at least one year after the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made and a
separate opinion on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) be included in the annual audit; and
(c) certified copies of audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, together



46
with the Auditor's Report would be furnished to the Association as soon as available, but not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year starting with the audit reports for the
financial year ending March 31, 1997.
E.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION
112.  The Ministry of Environment and Forests will be responsible for the monitoring and
evaluation of the project. Special annual outcomes and indicators to monitor progress in
project implementation and to assess project impact have been agreed with the government
and are outlined in Schedule D of the Memorandum of the President. The Project
Implementation Cell in the MOEF with the assistance of local consultants will prepare
quarterly progress reports and collect from the other implementing agencies, all additional
documentation required for the supervision of the project. During negotiations, the
government provided assurances that it would cause the MOEF and Gujarat to (a) review
annually with the Association, progress in the implementation of the project and credit
disbursements over the preceeding twelve months; (b) discuss with the Association by March
31 of each year, annual work plans and budgets for the next twelve months; (c) carry out with
the Association, a mid-term review of the project no later than March 31, 1999; and (d) duly
take into account, the comments offered by the Association during the mid-term review in the
course of further implementation. It was also understood that at the Mid-Term Review not
only project progress would be evaluated, but project impact indicators reviewed and updated,
and a decision taken jointly by GOI and IDA on the processing of a second phase technical
assistance project to further support the pilots which have been evaluated as being successful.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be submitted to the Association by the
MOEF no later than six months after completion of the project i.e. by June 30, 2003. During
negotiations, the government also provided assurances that it would (a) prepare on the basis of
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association no later than six
months after the Closing Date, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of project
objectives, and (b) ensure the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on this
plan.



47
F.     PROJECT TRAINING PLAN
113.   The project training plan is shown in Table 5.
Table 5. Training Plan
Componentl           Specific Areas of Training              Total No. of Persons to   Duration of
subcomponent                                                      be Trained         Training
Program
Local       Overseas
Environmental
Policy Planning
Environmental        Environmental research management           -          12      2 months
Research             Technical research specialty                -          15      9 months
Research methodology                     210           -       10 days*
Environmental        Data management and information           120           -      5 days*
Information          handling
Data access and analysis                 300           -       3 days*
Environmental        Economics faculty training                160           -      1.5 months
Economics            Environmental economics theory,                                5 days
methods, policy                           800
Overseas fellowships                       -          240      6 months
Environmental        Design, use and reporting                 400           -      5 days*
Indicators           Indicators, concepts and management        -           24      1 month
Environmental        Policy planning and management                         12      2 months
Indicators           Data-based management                     100                  I month
Environmental        Review of standards design                400           -      5 days*
Standards
Environmental
Administration
Regional Offices of    Env. management, policy, planning        -           10      2 months
the MOEF             EIA management, EMP monitoring,            28           -      5 months
regional information



48
Decentralization of
Environmental
Management
National            Media policy and management                          8      2 months
Environmental       Media strategies                       12,000        -      3 days*
Awareness
Campaigns
Paryavaran Vahini    Program management techniques          949          -      2 months
Coordination                           424          -
Guidelines and practices               1950         -
NGO Environment    Fund guidelines and procedures, action   1000                3 days*
Action Fund         project accountability, project evaluation
and impact measurement
Environmental Law
Environmental Law    Natural resource laws, Pollution control  300              3 weeks
laws, Environment impact assessment                20      3 months
Participation/information, International
environment obligations
Monitoring and
Compliance
Mining Sector       Policy, planning, management, EMP        -          50      1 month
Compliance monitoring                  1500         -      5 days*
Industrial Siting   Env. mapping and zoning techniques      1400         -      8 days*
(Zonal Atlas)       Industrial siting guidelines and case   1400         -      4 days*
studies
Environmental planning in urban areas  1000         -      8 days*
Identification of industrial estates for  80        -      5 days*
polluting industries
Ambient Air         Data management                         400          -      10 days
Pollution Monitoring
Coastal and Marine    Integrated coastal areas planning, policy,  -     60      3 - 6 months
Area Management    management
Coastal zone mapping and management    105          -      3 - 6 months



49
Gujarat
Gujarat Dept. of Env.  Environmental management                   4      1 month
and Forests       Environmental specialties             -         12     3 month
Environmental impact assessment     60         -      2 month
Gujarat Ecology   Env. data based management and        -         2      3 months
Commission        statistical analysis
Data analysis                       10         -      10 months
* Recurrent workshops and training programs.
G.    PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
114. The Approach. Project implementation will follow the "implement-review design-
implement" approach. This is appropriate for a technical assistance operation. Selected
assessments and action plans would be developed during the first one to two years in order to
better focus environmental policy actions and project implementation in the following years.
The technical assistance activities and supervision plan would be flexible enough to respond
to priority actions and changing institutional structures as they evolve over the life of the
project.
115.  Bank Supervision Inputs. Several aspects of the supervision plan are worth noting.
The "implement-review-design-implement" approach will require the supervision team to
address on-going design issues, and will require more time than required for the supervision of
physical investment projects. As a result, supervision costs for this project will be higher than
current coefficients for investment projects in India because: (a) activities will be front-end
loaded over the first two years; (b) the importance of a comprehensive Project Launch; (c) the
wide range of skills required during supervision ; and (d) the establishment of a Core
Advisory Group of Bank staff specialists from the Economic Development Institute (EDI),
Environment Department (ENV), Policy Research Department (PRD), Environment Division
Legal Department (LEGEN) and the Environment Division, Asia Technical Department
(ASTEN).
116.  The supervision plan has been divided between inputs from headquarters and from the
New Delhi Office of the World Bank (NDO). NDO has an important supervisory role for this
project. Their involvement, especially during the first two years, will be ongoing, rather than
driven by discrete supervision missions from Washington. The continuous engagement of
NDO staff with the GOI is essential to making this project a successful long-term partnership.
NDO staff will work closely with the Project Cell in the MOEF in the areas of: (a) monitoring
of project progress against agreed Key Indicators; (b) preparation and review of quarterly
progress reports; (c) the 'twinning' arrangements between local and foreign institutions; (d)
linkages between the project and NGOs and other elements of civil society; and (e)
assessments of the quality of training programs and workshops.



50
117. Borrower Contribution to Project Supervision. Quarterly Progress Reports will be
prepared and submitted to the Bank by the Project Cell in MOEF. Overall responsibilities for
project monitoring, reporting and evaluation will reside with the Project Cell. However, the
implementing agencies more directly responsible for each project subcomponent will be
responsible for reporting on progress against input and output indicators, financial targets, and
performance indicators. The contents and form of these supervision reports will be determined
by the Project Cell. Also, the Project Cell will be responsible for coordinating arrangements
for Bank supervision missions and for providing information required.
118.  Mid-Term  Review.  This project is conceived of as Phase I of a longer-term
relationship between the GOI and the World Bank in the area of environmental management.
The mid-term review for this project will suggest not only changes the implementation of this
project, but will recommend whether the Bank should proceed with the design of a second
Environmental Management Capacity Building Technical Assistance project. Both the Key
Indicators and the Supervision Plan have been drafted to allow for the Mid-Term Review to
fulfill this function.
119.  Estimated staffing levels and costs.  The attached tables provide details on the
Supervision Plan. Since it is unrealistic to plan separate supervision missions for each
component, the plan reflects that (a) the NDO will take a strong role, and (b) the mission
schedule is only tentative after the first project year. Also, to explicitly recognize the
importance of the Core Advisory Committee in Headquarters, a line for 'non-mission
supervision' is included in the Plan. It is estimated that project supervision by Bank staff will
require about 330 staff-weeks over the life of project, of which about 150 will be by
headquarters staff and 180 by NDO staff. The average supervision cost over the life of the
project is estimated to be $134,000 per year. Estimated staff-weeks per fiscal year and a
summary supervision plan staff weeks are shown in Table 6 and 7.



51
Table 6: Detailed Supervision Plan -- Staff Weeks per Mission
HEADQUARTERS"                      NEW DELHI OFFICE "r
#    Timing    Lapsed          Description        Tot.   TM      Law   Econ.   Mgt/  Co.    Min.  Pro.   Mon./  NGO   Trg.
Months                              SW                            Pl.    Ma.                  Eva. 
_____________________I                                                                       Part.
FY97    I   Jan-97        4      Project Launch Workshop    14      2                                          2       4       3      3
2   May-97       4      Mission                    20      2              2       2      2             2      4       3       3
--I              --     Non-mission time           25      8       1      I       I      2      1      2       3       3      3
FY98    3   Sept-97       4      Mission                    13      2      1                                    1      4       2      3
4   Mar-98       6      Mission                    18      2              2      2       2             1      4       2       3
Non-mission time           28      6      I      4       2       1            2       6       3      3
FY99    5   Oct-98        7      Mission                    12      2                                           1      4       2      3
6   Apr-99       6      Mid-term Review            21      2      2       2      2       2      2             4       2      3
Non-mission time           28      6      1       4      2       1      1     2       6       2      3
FY     7   Oct-99        6      Mission                    12      2                                           I      4       2      3
2000    8   Apr-00        6     Mission                     16     2              2       2      2                     4       1      3
--I    Non-mission time           21      4      1       2      2       I             1      6       2      3
FY     9   Oct-00        6      Mission                    9       2                                           1      3       1      2
2001    10  Apr-0 1       6      Mission                    14     2              2       2      2                     3       1      2
Non-mission time           19      4      1       2      2       1             1      4       2      2
2002   11   Oct-o1        6     Proj. Completion Mission    22      3      1      2       2      2      2      2       4       2      2
Total       61     (5-years)                  303    51       8      28     24      20     6      19     70      33     44
Table 7: Summary of Supervision Plan Staff Weeks (by Fiscal Year)
HEADQUARTERS"                                    NEW DELHI OFFICE2
Tot.    TM        Law      Eco    Mgt/ Pi.    Co/Ma.    Min.    Pro.    Mon./    NGO/    Trg.
SW     _                                      _           ____Eva.                       Part.
FY97               86       15        3        5         5           6          3        10        15        12        12
FY98               59       10        2        6         4           3          0        4         14         7         9
FY99               61       1 0       3        6         4           3          3        3         14         6         9
FY2000              49       8         0     1  4         4           3          0        2         14         5         9
FY2001              42       8         1        4         4           3          0        2         10         4         6
FY2002              22       3         1        2         2           2          2        2         4          2         2
Total, life of project   319       54        10      30        26          22          8        23        74        36        47
Of which, not on        132      28        4        16        12           8          2        8        28         12        14
mission
Tot. SW       =     Total Staff Weeks
T. M.         =     Total Managers
Law           =     Environmental Law Specialist
Eco.          =     Environmental Economist
Mgt./PI.      =     Env. Management/Planning Specialist
Co./Ma.       =     Coastal/Marine Specialist
Min.          =     Mining Specialist
Pro.          =     Procurement Specialist
Mon/Eva.   =        Monitoring/Evaluation Specialist
NGO/Part.  =        NGO/Participation Specialist
Trg.     =         Training Specialist
I/       Headquarters include TM  from SA2, and staff from ENV, PRD, EDI, ASTEN, LEG and consultants.
2/       New Delhi staff drawn from Social Development Unit and Procurement, Disbursement, and Audit
Team (PDAT).



52
H.   PROJECT BENEFIT ANALYSIS
120.  Framework.  The proposed project is designed to assist GOI in meeting its
environmental priorities. It is linked to the India Country Assistance Strategy and completed
economic and sector work prepared by the India, Nepal, Bhutan, Country Department, South
Asia Regional Office (SA2), which has been discussed and agreed with GOI. In December
1993, The Environmental Action Program - India (EAP) was issued by the MOEF. One of
the major objectives in preparing the EAP was to "identify projects for organizational
strengthening for better environmental management" (para. 1.02(e) of the EAP). The Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India, dated May 19, 1995, specifically noted that the Bank
would discuss possible environmental projects to strengthen the capabilities of institutions and
agencies in charge of formulating and implementing environmental policies and monitoring
and strengthening compliance (para. 70 of CAS). The January 1996 SA2 study which
assessed the EAP concluded that institutional capacity building to strengthen monitoring and
compliance with existing laws and standards has a high payoff and in addition, that
decentralization of environmental management to communities and non-governmental
organizations is critically important to the overall environmental management process. (para.
14 of MOP).
121.  Macro/Sector Environment.   Macroeconomic and sectoral preconditions are
satisfactory for this project. While the project is not linked to specific policy reforms, it is
designed to address the key information, policy, and compliance issues that hinder broad-
based improvements in environmental management in India. This point can be illustrated by
noting that there are four underlying causes of environmental degradation in India:6 (a)
market and policy failures; (b) population growth; (c) rapid urbanization and industrialization;
and (d) the common perception, caused in part by the lack of information to both government
and civil society, that there is a direct tradeoff between environmental protection and
economic growth. The project is designed to address some of these underlying causes
directly, while leaving others such as population growth as "givens" within the project time-
frame. In particular, the subcomponents on environmental law, economics, research, and
community and NGO action, all are designed to address key areas of economy-wide policy
failure. The subcomponents on mining, ambient air monitoring, industrial siting, coastal and
marine area management, and strengthening environmental impact assessment (EIA)
compliance, are intended to enhance programs to reduce the adverse impacts of rapid
urbanization and industrialization. Finally, the emphasis on environmental information,
indicators and indices, and community awareness, highlights the importance of public
involvement in designing and implementing solutions to environmental issues.
122.  Several important policy issues that hinder improved environmental management in
India are considered beyond the scope of this project. The most important of these are: (a)
energy pricing, including the price of fossil fuels and electricity; (b) water pricing; and (c)
community resource tenure on degraded lands. These issues are all being addressed through
other Bank/IDA-assisted projects (Schedule A of Memorandum of the President). More
6  Towards an Environmental Strateyfor Asia. World Bank Discussion Paper 224, 1993, pg. 27



53
specifically, under the Industrial Pollution Prevention project (FY95), MOEF begun the
review of the fiscal and regulatory incentives for pollution control in industry. As part of this
effort, the National Institute for Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) completed a study:
"Incentives and Regulations for Pollution Abatement with an Application to Waste Water
Treatment". The study was a first step towards exploring introduction of market-based
instruments for industrial pollution abatement. The study recommended four approaches:
(a) abatement charges with government clean-up; (b) abatement charges with third-party
clean-up; (c) tax/subsidy schemes; and (d) tradable private permits system. MOEF foresaw
the need for an additional review of these issues and organized a task force to explore wider
use of economic instruments. Further analysis of these approaches is required before concrete
Governmental action can be taken. Task force is now carrying out further analysis of market-
based instruments for pollution abatement under terms of reference agreed with the Bank. An
implementation program for the use of such instruments will be a part of this analysis.
123. Public/Private Sector Issues. In India, there is general agreement on the broad
principle that public sector involvement should be strengthened only in areas which cannot be
adequately covered by the private sector, representative and capable local community
organizations, and NGOs. However, the manner in which this principle is applied in specific
sectors, and within the various tasks of environmental management--i.e. policy formulation,
investment, monitoring, compliance--can benefit from additional analytical work and more
informed public debate. This project will address this gap at several levels through the
environmental  law,  environmental  economics,  environmental  research,  National
Environmental Awareness Campaign, Paryavaran Vahinis, and NGO Environmental Action
Fund. The combined benefits of these subcomponents will be the broadening of support for
improved environmental management from a small core of bureaucrats within government, to
a much broader base in society at large, that will also incorporate a system of checks and
balances in policy planning, monitoring, and compliance.
124. Project Choice. The Bank Group has two choices to increase its cooperation with
India on the environment. These are either sectoral investment projects in priority sectors
such as water management, energy development, urban management, industrial pollution
prevention, forestry, and biodiversity conservation; and/or 'umbrella' technical assistance
projects which addresses the institutional weaknesses that underlie the broad range of priority
environmental issues identified by the GOI in its EAP. Many Bank Group borrowers
including China, Russia, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico, and Chile, have recognized the need for
umbrella technical assistance projects.
125. As outlined in Schedule A of the Memorandum of the President, the GOI has an active
portfolio of Bank Group-assisted investment projects with positive environmental impacts. It
does not have an umbrella project that addresses the institutional and policy weaknesses which
are common to priority-setting and resource management issues across sectors. This project
fills that gap. The project will benefit ongoing sectoral projects that have environmental
components such as the Industrial Pollution Control and Industrial Pollution Prevention
projects, by improving the efficiency of the policy, monitoring, and compliance regime that
affects the investment decisions under those projects. In addition, it will assist in improving
the pre-conditions for future environmental projects, such as the proposed Urban (Delhi and
Surat) Environmental Management (FY99) and the Hazardous Waste Management (FY97)



54
projects. Therefore, the benefits derived from the various project components will accrue to
the policy planning and administration, monitoring and compliance, and decentralized
environmental management needs of future Bank Group operations in India.
126. Impact. Current economic analysis practice does not allow for the quantification of
the long-term benefits of Technical Assistance projects. Instead, in order to ensure a high rate
of return on the technical assistance resources devoted to this type of project, the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) recommendations, based on audit reports of Technical
Assistance projects have been followed.7  For environmental technical assistance projects,
OED's recommendations place importance on three preconditions: (a) adequate institutional
and technical capabilities are needed at the national and sub-national levels; (b)
implementation of environmental projects require adequate technical information, a
supportive policy environment, and adequate institutional capacity; and (c) environmental
regulations have to be accompanied by greater reliance on economic incentives. The proposed
project gives importance to lessening India's shortcomings in these areas. In particular, the
process of institutional capacity-building will be underpinned by improved data collection and
analysis capabilities, economy-environment policy linkages, increased involvement of the
community and NGOs, the academic sector, and the expansion of resources available in
Gujarat for environmental management. Beyond these general observations, several of the
projects subcomponents have positive economic and environmental benefits in the short,
medium, and long term which can be analyzed separately. They are shown in Table 8.
Table 8: Project Readiness and Time Frame of Project Impacts
Components and           Expansion of                         Timeframe of "on-the-groun ,,
Subcomponents            Ongoing Programs    New Programs     impact8
Environmental Policy Planning
Enviromnental Research   Review the ongoing                   M
process to establish
research priorities and
procedures
Environmental Information    Data management at               M
the thematic data
centers of ENVIS
7   World Bank Approaches to the Environment in Brazil: A Review of Selected Projects. OED,
April 30, 1992.
8S = Short (within 5 years); M = Medium (5-10 years); L = Long (Beyond 10 years)



55
Environmental Standards     Strengthen the       Develop new        S
ongoing review       standards for ozone,
process              hospital wastes,
chemical industries,
etc.
Environmental Economics     Expand teaching,     Increase the       M
research, and policy    application of
applications of      economic tools to
enviromnental       the debate on
economics            environmental
management
Environmental Indicators                         To Develop         M
indicators by
analyzing and
aggregating
environmental and
economic data
Environmental Administration
Regional Offices of the MOEF  Strengthen the EIA                    S
process and
training to improve                     S
capability of dealing
with region-specific
environmental impacts
Decentralization of
Environmental Management
NEAC                        Strengthen the existing                 S
program by
decentralizing the
campaign from the
center to the states and
piloting the program
in selected states
Paryavaran Vahinis          Review, revise and                      S
expand the existing
program
NGO Environmental Action                         Provide support to    S
Fund                                             environmental
awareness,
monitoring, and
mitigation
initiatives.



56
Environmental Law
Environmental Law            Strengthen           Training in         L
implementation of    environmental law
existing laws        to staff of MOEF,
CPCB, SPCB,
industry and NGOs
Community-based    L
environmental
decision-making
and dispute
resolution
Strengthen legal   L
research and
education
Monitoring and Compliance
In High Priority Areas
Mining Sector               Best practice                             M
mitigation measures
for specific
environmental
problems
Strengthen institutions                  M
including Bureau of
Mines, Regional
Offices of MOEF,
CPCB and SPCBs
Industrial Siting/Zonal Atlas    Creating "zonal                      M
atlases" in 60 districts
to indicate suitability
for industrial siting.
Ambient Air Pollution       Improve the           Emission inventory   M
Monitoring                  monitoring in 28 cities  of critical elements;
by including PM 10,
Lead, CO, and ozone    Cost-effectiveness
analysis of control
strategies
Expand monitoring to                     M
other areas



57
Coastal and Marine Area                   Preparing        M
Management                                ICMAMPs
GIS Based Critical    Developing EIA  M
Habitats Information   guidelines for
System            coastal and marine
areas
Waste Assimilation                 M
Studies in selected
areas
Gujarat                                   Preparation of   M
Gujarat Departnent of Forests              SEAP
and Environment
Piloting the major
national initiatives
for actual
implementation at
state level
127. Mining Sector. India is a large producer of coal and the bulk of India's energy needs
in the future will be met by coal-based thermal power. Coal-based thermal generation
capacity is expected to rise from 63,000 MW by the end of the Eighth Five-Year Plan period
(1996) to about 144,000 MW by 2010--an increase of 81,000 MW over a period of 14 years.
Higher and consistent coal quality will increase generation efficiency and plant availability.
For example, washed coal reduces carbon dioxide emissions from 0.983 to 0.866 kilograms
per kilowatt hour. Even a one percent improvement in plant capacity as a result of coal
washeries will improve generation capacity by 600 MW by the end of the Eighth Five-Year
Plan for a saving of US$720 million. The carbon dioxide savings potential is estimated as 5
percent of 63,000 MW of coal-based generation capacity at the existing average plant load
factors. It could have been 15 million tons (assuming 55 percent plant load factor and 0.983
kilograms of carbon dioxide emissions per kilowatt hour). The potential savings would have
been US$3.8 billion. This is one example of the benefits from undertaking Mitigation
measures in the mining and energy sectors.
128. Because of GOI's concerns about the adverse environmental impacts of mining, the
MOEF established in 1987. A Center for Mining Environment in Dhanbad, Bihar, which is at
the heart of India's coal belt. The objective of the Center is generate scientific data and build
national capacity for sustainable mining in the country. Although this Center has developed
expertise in managing environmental issues in the mining sector, its competence has not been
matched by development of management capacities in the numerous agencies involved in the
supervision and monitoring of mining projects. These include the state Departments of
Geology and Mining, Environment and Forests, State Pollution Control Boards, and at the
Center, the CPCB, MOEF, and the Indian Bureau of Mines. The project would enhance the
capacities of these institutions. This should be environmentally beneficial to coal mining
specifically and mining in general.



58
129.  The environmental costs associated with current mining practices include air pollution,
water pollution, and the opportunity cost of degraded lands which are left in previously mined
areas. Since none of the economic values of these impacts have been quantified, it is not
possible to quantify the benefits accruing to improved practices attributable to this project.
However, as compliance to mining sector Environmental Mitigation Plans (EMPs) improve as
a result of this project i.e. strengthening the Regional Offices of the MOEF and SPCBs and
other parallel activities such as the recently approved Coal India Environmental and Social
Mitigation Project, the cost to society of the negative environrmental and economic impacts
will decline. Best practice in other countries, including Indonesia and Australia, has shown
the cost-effectiveness of the combined mining sector mitigation strategies included in the Coal
India Environmental and Social Mitigation project and the proposed project.
130.  Industrial Siting. There are two costs associated with current practice in India of
largely uncontrolled industrial siting with few land-use controls.  The first cost is the
environmental cost. This is an economic externality of excess pollution in areas where there
is insufficient carrying capacity. The second cost is the higher economic cost which is due to
the loss of possible economies of scale associated with providing adequate pollution
abatement equipment to industry that is widely dispersed. The industrial siting/zonal atlas
subcomponent will expand ongoing GOI efforts to improve industrial siting and should lead to
a reduction of the environmental and economic costs already prevalent in the economy
because of inadequate and inappropriate industrial siting.
131.  Coastal and Marine Area Management. India has extensive coastlines (0.13 million
sq. km of territorial waters). In keeping with its own laws and obligations under international
environmental conventions, India monitors coastal and marine area pollution. The major
coastal and marine area problems are growing microbial pollution indicating wide-scale
sewage and industrial pollution, exploitation of mangroves leading to erosion of coastal land,
the destruction of ideal habitats for marine life and breeding grounds for fish, intrusion of
saline water into coastal acquifers rendering coastal lands more prone to flooding, and the
pollution of the sea by oil spills and ship wastes. Studies by the Department of Ocean
Development and the CPCB have shown large scale pollution in the coastal areas, especially
the creek waters on the western coasts, particularly in Gujarat and Maharashtra. CPCB has
estimated that about 135 billion metric tons of sediment and 32 billion metric tons of soluble
matter enter into the ocean through the various rivers of India. While the Indian rivers carry
five percent of all the water that flows into the world's seas, they also carry thirty-five percent
of all sediments. Given the polluting nature of Indian's rivers, the overall impact of such
pollution is enormous on India's coastal and marine areas as well as the seas. The proposed
coastal and marine area management subcomponent will directly address many aspects of
coastal pollution and degradation in India. If successful, not only will monitoring of pollution
be improved, but the management plans which the states will prepare, should lead to
reductions in marine pollution, and the protection of coastal wetlands, mangroves, coral reefs,
and marine habitats.
132.  Environmental Policy Planning. This project subcomponent has as its objective the
strengthening of environmental policy planning through better economic analysis, research
and information, new and upgraded environmental standards, and the development of
environmental indicators and indices. India is currently hindered by both environmental



59
policy failures due to the distortionary effects of pricing policies, and inefficiencies due to
policy regimes that while well-intentioned, could be reformed for greater efficiency. The
proposed will concentrate on improving the efficiency of sub-optimal environmental policies
and practices. The benefits of this project component will be to: (a) reduce the marginal cost
of compliance, relative to current practices, through increased use of cost-effectiveness criteria
in policy planning. This includes the cost of all environmental investments required to meet
standards; (b) reduce the cost of effective government oversight over the environment, relative
to current trends, because of the greater role to be played by civil society in environmental
monitoring and compliance; and (c) reduce the long-term cost of improved environmental
management, relative to current trends, by increasing the adoption of precautionary measures
as opposed to clean-up operations.
133.  Decentralization of Environmental Management. The project would support a
concerted effort to improve and expand the role of civil society i.e. beneficiaries, elected local
bodies, non-governmental organizations, and other grassroots organizations in the
environmental management system  in India.  The project would integrate splintered
environmental initiatives such as the Nation Environmental Awareness Campaign, Paryavaran
Vahini, and others into a focused and thematic program of behavior change that would evolve
from "raising awareness" to action.
134. Environmental Administration. The benefits from improved administration would
be both visible and demonstrable in the short-term. Strengthened Regional Offices of the
MOEF and SPCBs will be more effective in ensuring that the Environmental Management
Plans approved by Center and State as part of the EIA clearance process would be morc
vigorously implemented.  The benefits accruing from  the establishment of Project
Management Cells in MOEF, DOD, and the Gujarat Department of Environment and Forest
essentially relate to the effectiveness of project implementation.






60
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 1 OF 13
INDIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1.    The Constitution of India provides for the protection and improvement of the
environment. Article 51(g) of the Constitution states:
"It shall be the duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve the national environment, including forests,
lakes, rivers and wildlife and to have compassionfor living creatures. "
The language of the Directive Principles of State Policy (Article 47) also contains a specific
provision which commits the State to protect the environment.
2.    In addition to constitutional provisions, India has established a comprehensive set of
laws for the management and protection of the environment. These comprise a series of Acts,
Notifications, Rules and Amendments as shown in Box 4.
3.    While all of these laws are important to the legal framework of environmental
management in India, in recent years several of these Acts have become very important.
These are: the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974 and Cess Act of 1977;
the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1981; the Environment (Protection) Act
of 1986; the Hazardous Wastes Rules of 1989; the Forest (Conservation) Act, as amended in
1988; the Wildlife Act of 1972; the Policy Statement on Abatement of Pollution of 1992; and
the Environmental Audit, Clearance (Environment Impact Assessment), and Coastal
Regulation Zone Notifications of 1991, 1992, and 1994. The salient features of these Acts are
outlined below.
4.    The Environment (Protection) Act of 1986 was enacted in the wake of the Bhopal gas
tragedy under Article 253 of the Indian Constitution. The purpose of this Act is to implement
the decisions of the 1972 UN Conference on the Human Environment. This act is umbrella
legislation that provides a framework for central and state authorities established under
previous laws such as the Water Act (Paras. 5-7) and the Air Act (para. 8). It provides a single
focus for the protection of the environment and seeks to plug the loopholes of earlier
legislation relating to the environment. Several sets of rules relating to various aspects of the
management of hazardous chemicals, wastes, micro-organisms, and so on, have been written
under this act. Salient features of this act are:



61
Ito:)x 4: INDIA: En.avireiumnintal 1.cgisl:ftiofn, Aits, ltitles, Notirlltioin Xi1i AincuiilinciiiN
..................................................................................  .  .... ........... ...  .
* The Environment (Protection) Act and Rules, 1986
* The Environmental Audit Notification, 1992
* The Environmental Standards Notification, 1993
* The Environmental Clearance Notification, 1994
* The Public Liability Insurance Act, Rules, and Amendment, 1991, 1992
* The National Environment Tribunal Bill, 1992
* The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958
er   Y. W E .    *.  L;            .. vr
* The Indian Forest Act and Amendment, 1927, 1984
* The Forest (Conservation) Act and rules, 1980, 1981
*  The Wildlife (Protection) Act, Rules, and Amendment, 1972, 1973, 1991
*  The Insecticide Act, 1968
~~~~~~ A~~~~~~~~i 
* The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976
* The Model Regional and Town Planning and Development Law, 1985
* Provision in State Acts on Town and Country Planning
* The Industries (Development and Regulation) Act and Amendment, 1951, 1987
* The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act and Amendment, 1957, 1984
* The Coal Mines (Conservation and Development) Amendment Act, 1985
...:.!;.    t . ... X   .
* The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Rules and Amendment, 1977, 1978, 1992
* The Coastal Regulation Zone Notification, 1991
* The Oil Fields (Regulation and Development) Act, 1984
* The Merchant Shipping Act, 1970
* The River Boards Act, 1956
* The Indian Fisheries Act, 1897
* The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Rules and Amendment, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1987
* The Factories Act and Amendment, 1948, 1987
* The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 1986
* The Atomic Energy Act, 1982
* The Indian Boiler Act, 1923



62
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 3 OF 13
(a)   the central government may restrict an industry, operation or process, or class
of industries or operations from a particular area;
(b)   emissions and effluent standards with respect to sixty-one categories of
industries have been developed;
(c)   the standards with respect to pollutants are to be achieved within a period of
one year from the date of their notification;
(d)   if a particular State Pollution Control Board desires, it may reduce the time
limit and also specify more stringent standards with respect to a specified
category of industries within their jurisdiction. The board cannot relax either
the time limit or the standards; and
(e)   industries that require consent under the Water Act, Air Act or both, or
authorization under the Hazardous Waste (Management and Handling) Rules,
1989, are required to submit an environmental audit report to the concerned
State Pollution Control Board on or before September 30 every year.
5.    The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. This Act provides for
the prevention and control of water pollution and maintaining or restoring good water quality
for any establishment. The act assigns functions and powers to the Central and State Pollution
Control Boards for prevention and control of water pollution and all related matters. On a
case-by-case basis, or where there may be a union territory involved, the act allows for the
constitution of a joint Board i.e., by two or more governments of contiguous states by the
central government. Subject to the provisions of the act, functions and powers of Central as
well as the State Boards have been delineated individually and with respect to each other. For
the prevention and control of water pollution, the state government has the power to restrict
the application of the act to certain areas, obtain information, take samples of effluents and
follow appropriate procedures thereafter, enter and inspect an establishment, prohibit use of
streams or wells for disposal of polluting material, restrict new outlets and discharges, restrict
existing discharge of sewage or trade effluent, and refuse or withdraw any consent by the state
board.
6.    The Central Pollution Control Board, as well as the State Pollution Control Boards are
eligible for contributions from the central government and state governments, respectively, to
enable them to perform the functions appropriately. The Act also prescribes stringent
penalties for those who operate their industry without valid consent or in violation of consent
conditions. The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Amendment Act, 1988 was
passed to overcome administrative and practical difficulties in implementing the provisions of
the original act.



63
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 4 OF 13
7.    The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Cess Act of 1977. This Act
provides for the levy and collection of a cess on water consumed by persons carrying on
certain industries and by local authorities, with a view to augmenting the resources of the
Central Pollution Control Board and the State Pollution Control Boards for the prevention and
control of water pollution constituted under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Act, 1974.  It also covers specifications on affixing of meters, furnishing of returns,
assessment of cess, interest payable for delay in payment of cess, and penalty for nonpayment
of cess within the specified time. Salient features of this act are:
a)   the assessing authority under the act levies and collects a cess based on the
amount of water consumed and the purpose for which the water is used;
b)   the concerned industries are required to install standard water meters for
measuring and recording the quantity of water consumed;
c)    based on cess returns to be furnished by the industry every month, the amount
of cess is determined by the assessing authorities;
d)    aggrieved persons may appeal the assessment to the Appellate Authority; and
e)   the act also provides for a twenty-five percent rebate on the cess, payable to
those industries that consume water within the quantity prescribed for that
category of industries and also comply with prescribed effluent standards.
8.    The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1981 was enacted to prevent,
control and reduce air pollution, including noise pollution, and to establish boards at the
States/Union Territories to achieve this. This act prohibits the construction or operation of
any industrial plant without the consent of the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB). The act
assigns powers and functions to the CPCB and SPCBs for prevention and control of air
pollution and all other related matters. The Act states that state boards for the prevention and
control of water pollution are to be the state boards for the prevention and control of air
pollution. In addition, the CPCB can exercise the power and perform the functions of a state
board in the Union Territories. For the prevention and control of air pollution, the state
government in consultation with SPCB has the power to set standards for emissions from
automobiles, impose restrictions on use of certain industrial plants, and prohibit emissions of
air pollutants in excess of the standards laid down by the SPCB. It can also make an
application to court for restraining persons from causing air pollution. In addition, it also has
the power of entry and inspection, power to obtain information and power to take samples of
air emissions and conduct the appropriate follow-up. The CPCB, as well as the SPCBs are
eligible for contributions from the central government and state government, respectively, to
perform their functions appropriately. The act also allows for appropriate penalties and



64
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 5 OF 13
procedures for noncompliance. The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Amendment
Act of 1987 includes amendments to facilitate implementation of the 1981 act.
9.    The Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules of 1989
were developed under authority conferred by the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The
principal objectives of the rules are the prevention of major accidents arising from industrial
activities, the mitigation of effects of such accidents on people and on the environment, and
the harmonization of various control measures and agencies to prevent and limit major
accidents. The rules specify three levels of requirements.
a)    general or low-level requirements apply to 434 chemicals and require the
industrial unit to take necessary precautions to prevent major accidents, to
report those that do arise and take steps to limit consequences, prepare a
Material Safety Data Sheet, report imports, and properly label the hazardous
chemicals handled;
b)   the medium-level control applies to 179 chemicals and requires that the unit in
control of the relevant activity provide workers on-site with infonnation,
training and necessary equipment to ensure their safety as well as an off-site
emergency plan;
c)   the high-level controls apply to 17 chemicals in quantities that are unsafe.
Users of these chemicals must prepare a Safety Report. New industries are
required to prepare the Safety Report within five years of beginning operation.
An on-site emergency plan for dealing with major accidents is also required;
and
d)    both medium and high-level controls require public disclosure. Information
regarding a potential off-site spill or an on-site accident must be provided to
the District Collector for the preparation of an off-site emergency plan before
commencement of the activity. Also, the public in the vicinity of the plant
needs to be informed of the nature of a major accident that might occur on-site
and what to do in case of such an occurrence.
10.   The Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules of 1989 require
industries to classify wastes into categories. Other provisions include:
(a)   the occupier generating hazardous wastes must take all practical steps to ensure
that such wastes are properly handled and disposed of;
(b)   hazardous wastes must be collected, treated, stored and disposed of only in
facilities authorized for this purpose by the State Pollution Control Boards;



65
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 6 OF 13
(c)   before hazardous wastes are delivered, the facility occupier or operator must
ensure that the hazardous wastes are packaged in a manner suitable for storage
and transport;
(d)   the state govermnent, or a person authorized by it, must undertake an ongoing
program to identify disposal sites and compile and publish periodically an
inventory of disposal sites within the state;
(e)   the occupier generating hazardous waste and the operator of a facility for
collection, reception, treatment, transport, storage and disposal of hazardous
waste must maintain records of such operations;
(f)   when an accident occurs during transport of hazardous wastes, the facility
occupier or operator must report the incident immediately to the State Pollution
Control Board; and
(g)   import of hazardous wastes from any country to India for dumping and
disposal is prohibited. However, import of such wastes may be allowed for
processing or reuse as raw material.
11.   The Manufacture, Use, Import, Export and Storage of Hazardous Micro-
Organisms and Genetically Engineered Organisms of Cells Rules, 1989. The central
government established these rules with a view to protecting the environment, nature and
health, in connection with the application of gene technology and micro-organisms. These
rules are applicable to the manufacture, import and storage of micro-organisms and
genetically engineered organisms. However, such licenses are issued only after the proposal
is cleared from the environmental angle by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. For
according such clearances, the Ministry has notified the "Rules for the Manufacture, Use,
Import, Export and Storage of Hazardous Micro-organisms and Genetically Engineered
Organisms or Cells" in 1989 under the EPA of 1986. The investor is required to submit an
application to the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The Genetic Engineering Approval
Committee (GEAC) constituted by the Ministry of Environment and Forests examines the
application form and makes recommendations. All industries involving hazardous micro-
organisms or genetically engineered organisms are required to constitute an Institutional Bio-
Safety Committee (IBSC) to oversee the planning of an on-site emergency plan to deal with
any accident which may occur due to hazardous micro-organisms.
12.   The Policy Statement for Abatement of Pollution of February 1992 affirms the
government's intention to integrate environmental and economic aspects in development
planning, with stress on the preventive aspects of pollution abatement, and promotion of
technological inputs to reduce industrial pollutants. the overall policy objective is to integrate



66
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 7 OF 13
environmental considerations into decision making at all levels. Specific steps identified to
meet this objective are: (a) prevent pollution at source; (b) encourage, develop and apply the
best available practicable solutions; (c) ensure that the polluter pays for the pollution control
arrangement; (d) focus protection on heavily polluted areas; (e) involve the public in decision
making; and (f) increase the safety of industrial operations. To achieve the objectives,
maximum use will be made of a mix of instruments in the form of legislation and regulation,
fiscal incentives, voluntary agreements, educational programs and information campaigns.
The emphasis will be on increased use of regulations and an increase in the development and
application of financial incentives.
13.   Fiscal Incentives to Encourage Control and Prevention of Pollution.  The
Government of India offers several incentives to ensure that industries are motivated to
comply with the various environmental standards prescribed under different acts and rules to
control and prevent pollution. Some major fiscal incentives are as follows:
(a)   exemption from income tax. In order to ensure enthusiastic public involvement,
particularly of the corporate sector and private individuals, donations given by
a taxpayer to any association or institution for programs on conservation of
nature and natural resources are exempt from income tax. The Secretary of the
Ministry of Environment and Forests approves such institutions and
associations.
(b)   depreciation allowance. A depreciation allowance of 30 percent is allowed on
devices and systems installed by industrial units for minimizing pollution or for
conservation of natural resources.
(c)   investment allowance. An investment allowance at the rate of 35 percent of the
actual costs of new machinery or plant to assist in the control of pollution and
protection of the environment is granted. The central government has notified
a list of machinery and plant on which investment allowance is granted.
(d)   exemption from tax on capital gains. The purpose of this incentive is to
encourage industries to shift from congested urban areas. Capital gains arising
from transfer of buildings or lands used for business purposes are exempt from
tax if these are used for acquiring or for constructing buildings for the purpose
of business at a new place.
(e)   excise and duty exemption on utilization of fly-ash, phosphogypsum, and so on.
excise duty is exempted on the production of low-cost building materials and
components;



67
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 8 OF 13
(i)   excise duty is exempted on the production of building materials using
fly-ash or phosphogypsum as raw material in 25 percent or greater
quantities;
(ii)   custom duty is exempted on the import of equipment, machinery and
capital goods required for the production of building material such as
bricks, lightweight aggregates, lightweight concrete elements, and so
on, using fly-ash or phosphogypsum; and
(iii) reduction in excise duty up to 15 percent is allowed on prefab
components required for housing.
14.   The Public Liability Insurance Act of 1991 provides immediate relief to persons
affected by accidents while handling hazardous substances. The act requires that:
(a)   where death or injury to any person (other than a workman) or damage to any
property has resulted from an accident, the owner is liable to give relief on a
"no fault basis";
(b)   every owner must take out, before he starts handling hazardous substances, one
or more liability insurance policies equal to its paid up capital or
Rs. 500 million, whichever is less. The policy has to be renewed every year.
New undertakings must apply for liability insurance before starting their
activity;
(c)   accidents are verified by the District Collector, who may hold an inquiry into
the claim(s) and may make an award determining the amount of relief;
(d)   the central government will set up an Environmental Relief Fund to be utilized
for paying, in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The owner also has to
pay an amount equal to its annual premium to the central government's
Environment Relief Fund. The reimbursement of relief to the extent of
Rs. 25,000 per person is allowed in case of fatal accidents in addition to the
reimbursement of medical expenses up to Rs. 12,500. The liability of the
insurer is limited to Rs. 50 million per accident up to Rs. 150 million per year
or up to the tenure of the policy. Any excess claims will be paid from the
environment relief fund or by the owner;
(e)   Owners must provide the final compensation, if any, arising out of legal
proceedings. The Public Liability Insurance Amendment Act specifies the
responsibilities of different participants under the liability law.



68
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT I
PAGE 9 OF 13
15.   The Environmental Audit Notification of 1992 applies to every person carrying on
an industry, operation or process requiring consent to operate under the Water Act, Air Act, or
both, or authorization under the Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling Rules), 1989,
issued under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The notification requires that an
environmental statement for the financial year ending March 31st be submitted to the
concerned State Pollution Control Board on or before September 30 every year, beginning in
1993. The realization that industry and environment should go hand in hand so as to achieve
sustainable development was brought in realization to consider environmental protection a
bare necessity. "Environmental Audit" is a technique being introduced for integrating the
interests of industry and environment, so that these could be mutually supportive. The Policy
Statement for Abatement of Pollution by the Goverrunent of India, provides for submission of
environmental statement by all concerned industries, which would subsequently evolve into
an environmental audit. [Environmental Auditing is a management tool comprising a
systematic, documented, periodic and objective evaluation of how well the management
systems are performing with the aim of:  waste prevention and reduction, assessing
compliance with regulatory requirements, facilitating control of environmental practices by a
company's management and placing environmental information in the public domain].
16.   The Environmental Impact Assessment of Development Projects Notification of
1994.  Until January 1994, obtaining environmental clearance from the Ministry of
Environment and forests was only an administrative requirement intended for mega projects
undertaken by the government or public sector undertakings. The EIA Notification issued in
January 1994 and amended in May, 1994, makes Environment Impact Assessment (EIA)
statutory for 29 different identified activities (Schedule - 1) which can be broadly categorized
under the following sectors:  industries; mining; thermal power plants; river valley
development; ports; harbors and airports; communication; atomic energy; transport (rail, road,
highway); and tourism ( including hotels and beach resorts in the Coastal Regulation Zone).
17.   All projects listed under Schedule - 1 are required to obtain environmental clearance
from the central government i.e. the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF). Projects
which fall under the delicensed category of the New Industrial Policy are also required to
obtain environmental clearance from the MOEF.
18.   All development projects whether under Schedule - I or not, if they are to be in certain
notified ecologically sensitive or fragile areas such as the Doon Valley; Dahanu Taluka;
Aravalli ranges in Gurgaon district of Haryana; Alwar district in Rajasthan etc., will also have
to obtain environmental clearance from the MOEF.



69
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT I
PAGE 10 OF 13
19.  Industrial projects where the investment is Rs. 500 million or above must receive
MOEF clearance. Industrial activities where the investment is Rs. 10 million and above in
pesticides; bulk drugs and pharmaceuticals, asbestos and asbestos products; paints; distilleries;
raw skins and hides; dyes; foundries and electroplating will also require the clearance of the
Ministry of Environment and Forests. Industrial projects are further required to obtain a
Letter of Intent (LOI) from the Ministry of Industry, and a No Objection Certificate (NOC)
from the State Pollution Control Board and state Forest Department if the location involves
forest land. Once the NOC is obtained, the LOI is converted to an Industrial License by the
state authorities. However, if the project falls under Schedule - 1 of the EIA Notification, it
must obtain an environmental clearance from the MOEF. Obtaining the necessary approvals
from the MOEF is facilitated by following a set of "Siting Guidelines" which are issued by the
MOEF.
20.   Only mining projects involving more than 5 hectares of land are required to obtain"
Site Clearance" from the MOEF. Other projects involving leases of less than 5 hectares of
land are cleared by state governments.
21.   The EIA Notification requires each project to submit a number of documents to the
MOEF in order to obtain enviromnental clearance as follows:
(a)   Feasibility/Project Report;
(b)   site clearance ( only for site-specific projects mentioned in the Notification);
(c)   No Objection Certificate from the SPCB and other state authorities;
(d)   Completed Environment Appraisal questionnaire:
(e)   Environment Impact Assessment Report and Environment Management Plan;
(f)    Risk Analysis, Emergency Preparedness Plan ( only in the case of projects
involving hazardous substances); and
(g)   rehabilitation plans where large scale displacement of people is anticipated.
22.   The EIA Notification also outlined an environmental appraisal procedure as follows:
(a)   the documents listed above are reviewed first by the multi-disciplinary staff in
the MOEF. They may also visit the project site, and consult with experts as
necessary;



70
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 11 OF 13
(b)   after the initial review, the proposals are placed before specially constituted
committees of experts known as Environmental Appraisal Committees for each
sector. Besides the review of documents, the Committee may also undertake
site visits, and directly interact with affected people and environment groups;
(c)   in the case of very special or controversial projects which arouse considerable
public interest, the Committee will arrange public hearings to ensure public
participation. announcements for public hearings are made at least 30 days
before through newspapers.
(d)   after the above steps are completed, the Appraisal Committee makes a
recommendation for approval or rejection to the MOEF. The Minister of
Environment and Forests makes the final decision to approve or reject based on
recommendation placed before him by the staff of MOEF.
23.   Whenever a project is given environmental clearance, a set of recommendations and
conditions are stipulated by the Appraisal Committee which have to be complied with by the
investor once the project is commissioned.  Project authorities are required to submit
semiannual compliance reports to the MOEF to enable the Ministry to monitor the
implementation of the recommendations and conditions of environmental clearance. The six
Regional Offices of the MOEF (Shillong, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Bangalore, Lucknow
and Bhopal) assist the MOEF in monitoring environmnental cleared projects. Cases of non-
compliance of recommendations and conditions of environmental clearance are brought to the
notice of the concerned State Pollution Control Board for action.
24.   Forest (Conservation) Act of 1980 and 1988 Amendments provide for the
conservation of forests and matters related to the same. It calls for restrictions on the
dereservation of forests or use of forest land for non-forest purposes, i.e. the clearing of any
forest land for the cultivation of tea, coffee, spices, rubber, palms, oil-bearing plants,
horticultural crops or medicinal plants, or any purpose other than reforestation. It also
provides for the constitution of advisory committees and outlines the jurisdictions of
government departments and provides the central government with power to make rules for
carrying out the provisions of the act.
25.   National Forest Policy of 1988 focused on a new strategy of forest conservation
which included preservation, maintenance, sustainable utilization, restoration and
enhancement of the natural environment. The following are the objectives governing the forest
policy:



71
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 12 OF 13
(a)    maintenance of environmental stability through preservation and, where
necessary, restoration of the ecological balance that has been adversely
distributed by serious depletion of the forests of the country.
(b)    conserving the natural heritage of the country by preserving the remaining
natural forests with the vast variety of flora and fauna, which represent the
remarkable biological diversity and genetic resources of the country;
(c)    checking soil erosion and denudation in the catchment areas of rivers, lakes,
and reservoirs in the interest of soil and water conservation, for mitigating
floods and droughts, and for the retardation of siltation of reservoirs;
(d)   checking the extension of sand dunes in the desert areas of Rajasthan and along
the coastal tracts;
(e)   increasing substantially the forest tree cover in the country through massive
afforestation and social forestry programs, especially on all denuded, degraded
and unproductive lands;
(f)    meeting the requirements of fuelwood, fodder and minor forest produce and
small timber of the rural and tribal populations;
(g)   increasing the productivity of forests to meet essential national needs;
(h)   encouraging efficient utilization of forest produce by maximizing substitution
of wood; and
(i)    creating a massive people's movement with the involvement of women, for
achieving these objectives and to minimize pressure on existing forests.
In addition, the policy outlines the essentials of forest management, strategies of afforestation,
social forestry and farm forestry, wildlife conservation, forest-based industries, and forest
education and research.
26.   Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972 is a unified national act superseding previous
specific state laws and the Indian Forest Act, 1927, which enables the constitution and
management of areas as national parks, sanctuaries, game reserves, and closed areas. It also
specifies the procedures for establishing protected areas, the management parameters for
them, and the procedures for allowing or disallowing diverse uses within them. Under this
act, national parks are given a higher level of importance than sanctuaries, since no grazing or
private land holding or right is permitted within them. The act also provides for identification
of sanctuaries for certain human uses. It specifies for hunting of wild animals with respect to



72
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 1
PAGE 13 OF 13
license needed, maintenance of records of wild animals killed, restrictions of hunting, etc. It
provides for the declaration of any area to be a sanctuary, national park or game reserve by the
state government, if it is considered that the area is of adequate ecological, fauna, floral,
geomorphological, natural or zoological significance for the purpose of protecting,
propagating wildlife or its environment. In addition, the act also prohibits the trade of wild
animals or animal articles and trophies derived from certain animals.
27.   Coastal Regulation Zone Notification of 1991 was issued by the Ministry of
Environment and Forests under Section 3(1) and Section 3(2)(v) of the Environment
(Protection) Act of 1986. Under this notification, the central government declared the coastal
stretches of seas, bays, estuaries, creeks, rivers and backwaters which are influenced by tidal
action (on the landward side) up to 500 meters of the High Tide Line (HTL) and the land
between the Low Tide Line (LTL) and the HTL as Coastal Regulation Zone, and imposed
restrictions on the setting up and expansion of industries, operations and processes, etc. in the
Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ). The notification also prohibited within the CRZ the disposal
of hazardous substances, waste and effluent, untreated wastes and effluent from industries,
cities, towns and other human settlements, dumping of ash or other wastes from thermal plants
and construction activities in ecologically sensitive areas.
(a)   the CRZ notification listed activities which were permissible in the CRZ, but
which require environmental clearance from the Ministry of Environment
Forests. There are: construction of defense facilities with foreshore facilities;
ports and harbors, jetties and wharves; thermal power plants, and other
activities with investment exceeding Rs. 50 million. Each state with a
coastline is also required to prepare a Coastal Zone Management Plan
identifying and classifying the CRZ areas in accordance with guidelines
included in the notification.
(b)   the notification classified coastal stretches into four categories depending on
the sensitivity of the location. Development activities are to be regulated
accordingly.
The notification also includes guidelines for the development of beach resorts/hotels in
CRZ III and restricts construction within 20 meters from the HTL and within the area between
the HTL and LTL.



73
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 2
PAGE 1 OF 7
INDIA
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT INSTITUTIONS
1.     The effective implementation of the wide range of environmental laws require
processes, procedures, and institutions at the center, state and district levels with the capacity
to plan, implement, monitor and enforce compliance. Although the current management
system is primarily a government-centered command and control regime, it does employ
incentives and other techniques to encourage voluntary compliance with pollution control,
forest protection, and the environment protection thrusts in the law. The environmental
management system also provides for the active participation of large numbers of community-
based, non-governmental, and private voluntary organizations which are active in
implementing small-scale environmental improvement and mitigation programs and give
voice to the "public interest" which is embodied in environmental legislation. Figure 2 shows
the organizational structure of India's environmental management system.
Figure2. Organizational Structure for Environmental Management in India
Center_State                                    District
Metropolitan Area    Village
Ministry of   Rogional  | Department on
rini b  Environme nt =   OFF o     Einment 
Cenitral Pollution  Zonal    Sb  Polto
(CPCB)   =     CmPCBif4CnoiBac 
---------f- -----------:: ---------: ---: -------------------------------  ---------------------------------------::::-:------------ :--- ::::-J---------



74
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 2
PAGE 2 OF 7
2.    The Environment is a central subject in India and follows from  the central
government's obligations agreed at the 1972 U.N. Conference on the Human Environment
(Attachment 1. Para. 4). The entire environment management system evolved with the
Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) in the Government of India in 1985. Many
states already had State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) located in Departments of Public
Health to perform functions outlined in the Water and Air Acts. In most states, the
Departments of Environment were also established only after 1985. The State Pollution
Control Boards are larger institutions by virtue of their traditional roles. Departments of
Environment in the states mostly function as small entities, generally devoid of the skills
which are required for policy planning and implementation. While the MOEF at the Center
has expanded and changed its skill-mix, the State Departments of Environment continue to
perform routine budgetary functions for the State Pollution Control Boards. Only the West
Bengal Department of the Environment has prepared an Environmental Action Program. The
plethora of environmental legislation at the national level needs to be matched by institutional
abilities at the state level where most of the monitoring and compliance activities are initiated.
3.    The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) is the nodal agency for
environmental management at the Center. It has a number of attached agencies and
institutions including the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) which is located in New
Delhi and six Regional Offices in various States. At the State level, the Departments of
Environment, Forests, and the State Pollution Control Boards are the key institutions. The
organization chart of the MOEF is shown in Figure 3. The major functions of the key
environmental management institutions are outlined in the following paragraphs.
4.    The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) The major functions of the
MOEF are to: (a) develop and implement conservation and protection strategies, including the
establishment of biosphere reserves, pollution monitoring, environmental appraisal of
development projects, and the protection of historical monuments of national importance;
(b) coordinate environmental management programs with other ministries and agencies,
volunteer organizations, professional bodies, and other groups; (c) develop national
environmental policy planning strategies; (d) work with global agencies on environmental
issues; (e) support research on environmental problems; (f) develop environmental education
programs to increase national awareness of environmental protection issues and the
importance of natural resource preservation and citizen participation; (g) review legislation
and formulate additional legal measures when needed



75
Figure 3:  Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Environment and Forests
Divisions                     Specialized Agencies
Andaman and Nirobar Island Forest and Plantation  N
Forest Survey and          JDevelopment Corporation Limited
Utilization Div.          _L--,. - Forest Survey of India
Forest Conservation                                 
- Directorate of Forest Education, Dehradun
Indian Instnute of Forest Management. Bhopal
cation  and  Training Div.       -Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy. Dehradun
cation and Training Div.  -  -          --~ - -7
Indian Council of Forestry Research & Education, Dehradun"
Forest Policy Div.                Indian Plywood Research Institute, Bangalore
.  .  .  .   ..   .  .   .     .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
_- Central Zoo Authonty
+  Forest Fire Control Div.   _ -- Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoologic-al Park, Darjeeling
W i o v  - National Zoological Park, New Delhi
FW-ild-life Conservation R::R= : : ::
J-Dv.     _  Wildlife Insititute of India. Dehradun
_"* vWildlife Regional Office, Westem Regional Office, Bombay
Ganga ProJect                                          '9E Wildlife Regional Office, Southem Regional Office, Madras
Directoratb                                         _     Wildlife Regional Office, Norther Region, New Delhi
Wildlife Regional Oftee, Eastem Region, Calcutta
.. G.B. Pant Himalayan Paryavaran Evam Vikas Sangathan.'
+ _   !1!   m i_           p AImora ----       __________,.___
Ministerroortn
State   f I  Secraery                                      e D v
(EnvironmenM  I_
and Forests)                                             Gri
Nat-ional
Ecodevelopment           I      i      @      r                      
Board
_| Hazardous Substance|
Management Div.|
_|PGA and Grievances|
Div.                 |
Personnel and Scientific
Recruitment Div.               National Musuem of Natural History, New Delhi
_1    Conservation and        *- Salim Ali Centre for Omithology & Natural History, Bombay
Survey Div.       l          Botanical Survey of India, Calcutta
_I Civil Engineering Wing         Zoological Survey of India, Calcutta
- A.%-,  Ae. Asko" by av
iU.d    Ud. u     Ad-,-la.a__          IFS and Cadre
f 11'. m.ey                           Management Div.
Animal Welfare Div.       *- Animal Weffare Board
Note: Shaded Divisions/Specialized
Agencies are diecUy involved in
the Project



76
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 2
PAGE 4 OF 7
for environmental protection; (h) maintain a national environmental information system and
database on environmental problems; and (i) review policies and programs on human
settlement. The MOEF has a number of attached agencies and institutions which implement
the above functions.
5.     Regional Offices of MOEF have been established as shown in Box 5.
Bfoix 5: Loaicion or itegiuuna ()ficeq tif ihe M EF  -
Negion                        Regriufl/ Ofik e                 .furb.-dkiion.STahte.
Ifcadquaterrix
.     . .. ... ...... ............  ...     .  ..  .. ..  _._ ...   . . ....     .    ..  ..  ......     .
South                         Bangalore                        Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Kamataka,
Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Union
Territories (UTs) of
Lakshadweep and Pondicherry
West                          Bhopal                           Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya
Pradesh and UTs of Dadra &
Nagar Haveli and Daman &
Diu
East                          Bhubaneshwar                     Bihar, Orissa, Sikkim, West Bengal
and UT of Chandigarh
Central                       Lucknow                          Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh
North-East                    Shillong                         Arunachal Pradesh, Assamn,
Manipur, Meghalaya,
Mizoram, Nagaland, and
Tripura
North                         Chandigarh                       Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab and
UT of Chandigarh
The major functions of the Regional Offices are to: (a) monitor and evaluate all ongoing
forestry development projects and schemes with specific emphasis on conservation of forests;
(b) assist the States and union Territories in the preparation of proposals involving diversion
of forest land for non-forestry purposes under the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act,
1980; (c) undertake physical inspection of sites in cases of diversion of forest involving an
area of more than 40 ha.; (d) monitor the implementation of conditions and safeguards



77
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 2
PAGE 5 OF 7
stipulated by the Central Government in regard to diversions approved under the Forest
(Conservation) Act, 1980; (e) assist the States and Union Territories in the preparation of
management plans for forests under their control; and (f) assist the States and Union
Territories in streamlining collection, collation, storage and retrieval of data covering all the
facets of forests and forestry activities and to transmit such data to the Central
Government/Central Data Processing Center.
6.    The Regional Offices are also responsible to: (a) dispose of proposals for diversion of
forest land up to 5 ha. except for mining and making regular encroachments, and to examine
cases between 5 ha. and 20 ha. in consultation with the State Advisory Committees; (b) assist
in the preparation of the National Forestry Action Plan (NFAP); (c) assist Paryavaran Vahinis
as observers and technical advisors; (d) provide regional-level technical and scientific
consultation on biological diversity; (e) follow the implementation of conditions and
safeguards laid down for projects/activities when environmental clearance is given; (f) follow
up pollution control measures taken by industries, local bodies, Government (Center/State)
undertakings, etc.; (g) collect and furnish information relating to environmental impact
assessment of projects, pollution control measures, methodology and status, legal and
enforcement measures, environmental protection special conservation areas like wetlands,
mangroves and biosphere reserves; and (h) maintain liaison and provide linkages with the
concerned State governments, with central government agencies, with project authorities, with
the Regional Offices of the Central Pollution Control Board, with State Pollution Control
Boards and with non-government organizations involved in implementation of programs
relating to the environment.
7.    Other Ministries at the center also perform environmental management functions.
These are shown in Box 6.
8.    The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) is a statutory authority attached to the
Ministry of Environment and Forests. It was constituted in 1974, and its major functions are
to: (a) advise the central government on any matter concerning water and air pollution and the
improvement of air quality; (b) plan and implement a national program for the prevention or
abatement of water and air pollution; (c) coordinate the activities of the state pollution control
boards and resolving disputes among them; provide technical assistance and guidance to the
state boards; carry out and sponsor investigation and research relating to problems of water
and air pollution; (d) organize training for people working on the prevention or abatement of
water and air pollution; (e) organize a comprehensive public awareness program on the
prevention and abatement of water and air pollution; (f) compile data relating to water and air
pollution and the measures needed for prevention and abatement; prepare guidelines on the
treatment and disposal of sewage, effluents, and stack gas cleaning devices; (g) set standards
for stream and well water and for air quality in consultation with the state governments;



78
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ATTACHMENT 2
PAGE6OF7
(h) perform such other functions as may be prescribed by the government; and (i) ensure
compliance with the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act.
9.    State Department of Environment and Forests performs similar executive functions
at the state level as the MOEF at the center.
10.   State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) play a major role in environmental
management at the state level. Their major functions are to: (a) plan and execute state-wide
programs for the prevention and control or abatement of water and air pollution; (b) advise
state governments on prevention, control and abatement of water and air pollution and siting
of industries; (c) lay down or modify emission standards for local industries based on the
Minimum National Standards and the carrying capacity of sites; (d) issue consent orders
allowing discharge of industrial pollutants to air and water; (e) monitor compliance with
discharge consents and ensure compliance with provisions of relevant Acts; (f) issue No
Objection Certificates allowing industries to develop a site. (Depending on the industry, an
environmental assessment may still be required from the MOEF); (g) publish statistics on
pollution control for the state and disseminate information through lectures, seminars, training
and awareness; and (h) ensure legal action against defaulters.
11.   Municipalities and Panchayats are expected to play an increasing role in
environmental management at the district level. Under the Constitution (Seventy-Third
Amendment and Seventy-Fourth Amendment) Act of 1992, State governments can delegate
certain functions to municipalities and Panchayats. Under the Eleventh Schedule of the
Seventy-Third Amendment, Panchayats would be responsible for, among other activities, land
improvement, land consolidation, soil conservation, water management and watershed
development, social and farm forestry, and non-conventional energy sources. Under the
Twelfth Schedule of the Seventy-Fourth Amendment, municipalities would be responsible for
urban and town planning, water supply for domestic, industrial and commercial use, solid
waste management and sanitation, urban forestry, protection of the environment and
promotion of ecological aspects of urban development.



79
___                                                 ..............  ,  _   ____   ................... _ _ .__ .............................. : _._........ . ........
IBoi 61: Onlgning I.lilionulicn:I Tan I^ki of M1inli%rir^ I}le 'ilu  [ialiii tI1 >U1(1:
Ministry of Agriculture                           Conservation of wildlife
Conservation of biodiversity
Prevention and control of desertification
Conservation and regeneration of watersheds
Conservation and management of land and soil
Prevention and control of floods
Protection of irrigation command areas
Conservation and regeneration of forests
Prevention and control of pollution
Recycling of resources
Conservation and management of energy
Ministry of Water Resources                       Prevention and control of floods
Conservation and regeneration of wetlands
Conservation and regeneration of coral reefs and
Protection of irrigation command areas
Monitoring water quality
Ministry of Rural Development                     Conservation and management of land and soil
Prevention and control of drought
Conservation and regeneration of forests
Prevention and control of pollution
Ministry of Power                                 Prevention and control of pollution
Recycling of resources
Conservation and management of energy
Use of alternative sources of power
Ministry of Petroleum                             Protection of mining and oil extraction areas
Recycling of resources
Prevention and control of pollution
Conservation and management of energy
Department of Ocean Development                   Conservation and regeneration of coral reefs and
coastal regions
Conservation and regeneration of island resources
Ministry of Urban Development                     Prevention and control of pollution
Department of Non-conventional energy Sources     Prevention and control of pollution
Recycling of resources
Conservation and management of energy
Use of alternative sources of power
Ministry of Human Resource Development            Education and awareness
Ministry of Labor                                 Protection from occupational health hazards






IMAGING
T
Report No: ,-   6910 IN
Type:  M4?TAW



