Report No. PIC3529
Project Name                   India-Environmental Management Capacity...
Building Technical Assistance Project
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Environment
Project ID                     INPA43728
Borrower                       INDIA, acting by its President
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Environment and Forests,
Paryvaran Bhawan C.G.O. Complex
70 Lodi Road
New Delhi 11003, INDIA
Telephone Number:    91-11-436-0721
Fax Number:          91-11-436-0678
Date This PID Was Prepared     May 23, 1996
Appraisal Dates                April 23 - May 10, 1996
Projected Board Date           July 30, 1996
1.   Country and Sector Background. India is one of the ten most
industrialized countries in the world. It has the eighth largest
economy which has grown by an average of 5t per year during the
Eighth-Five Year Plan period (1992 -1997). The past four years of
economic liberalization have seen the country move towards a market
economy and greater global integration.    The industrial licensing
system has been largely dismantled, foreign companies can now invest
freely, import tariffs on capital goods have been substantially
lowered, and macroeconomic indicators have improved.
2.   However, India's rapid economic, population and industrial growth
are causing severe environmental degradation and pollution problems
with local, regional and global impacts. Urbanization with its
concomitant expansion of vehicular transportation, industrialization,
high-intensity agriculture, and the growing demand for consumer goods,
increase pressure for the extraction, procurement, and conversion of
natural resources for energy. With the success of economic growth,
India has simultaneously witnessed a significant deterioration in the
quality of its air, water, and soil.
3.   Air Pollution.  Air quality in India's major cities indicate that
ambient levels of NOx, S02, lead and suspended particulate matter are
often higher than World Health Organization and Indian standards.
Sulfur dioxide levels in nine of the country's major cities exceed
national standards. Other harmful substances such as ozone are not
monitored. Major contributors to air pollution problems in India
include thermal power stations, industrial factories, vehicles, and
the use of non-commercial fuels such as coal briquettes, animal dung
and trash by large sections of the population. The negative
environmental effects from increased fossil fuel use will likely
increase as India seeks to meet the energy demands of its expanding
economy. Coal will play a predominant role in this expansion. The



major pollutants from coal exploitation include the principal green
house gases (GHGs), particulate air emissions, coal mining runoff and
wastes, and coal ash solid wastes which pose a large-scale disposal
problem.
4.   Water Pollution.   Most of the rivers, streams, and large
stretches of the coastal marine environment in India are highly
polluted with municipal waste, waste generated from industry, chemical
agents from fertilizers, pesticides from crop protection, and silt
from degraded catchments. Untreated sewage and other non-industrial
wastes account for four times as much pollution as industrial
effluent.  In the major cities, less than 509 of the total wastewater
generated is collected and less than one-fourth is treated. The
consequence of such pollution is high levels of waterborne diseases
which account for two-thirds of all illnesses in India with a
significant loss in productivity. Although there is a Coastal
Regulation Zone Notification designed to protect the coastal marine
ecosystems, implementation is weak and marine pollution continues
largely unabated.
5.   Soil and Solid Waste Pollution.   Soils covering about 20t of the
country are partially degraded from animal overgrazing, deforestation,
improper irrigation practices, and poor land use patterns. In
addition, intensive agriculture and over-cultivation has resulted in
nutrient-depleted soils. The amount of garbage generated in most
India cities in increasing. Per-capita solid waste generation is
estimated to be about 350 to 500 gms.    Only about 60t of this waste
is collected and even then it is irregular (not daily) and disposed of
in ways which result in ground water and air pollution. Apart from
household wastes, other waste materials derived from the maintenance
of streets and drains, animals, commercial establishments particularly
stores and markets, construction sites and hospitals, adds to the
volume and seriously affect their composition and represent a major
public health problem.
6.   The Legal, Regulatory and Institutional Framework. The regulatory
and institutional decision-making framework for environmental
protection in India is embodied in eight major acts of the Indian
Parliament. These are; the Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act of 1974 which established the Central Pollution Control
Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs); the Air
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1977 which added the
monitoring of air emissions to the responsibilities of the various
Boards; the Environment (Protection) Act of 1986; the Forest
(Conservation) Act of 1980, amended in 1988; the Motor Vehicle Act of
1938, amended in 1988; the Public Liability Insurance Act of 1991; and
Notifications on the Coastal Regulation Zone, 1991; and Environmental
Impact Assessment of Development Projects, in 1994.
7.   Issues in Environmental Management.   Most of the above Acts and
Notifications are aimed at strengthening the command-and-control
regime. New initiatives, especially in the form of a mix of
regulations and legislation, fiscal incentives for technology
acquisition, voluntary agreements, educational programs and
information campaigns are required. Although the Government of India
- 2-



(GOI) has introduced some of these measures, more is required because
the regulatory structure of a central authority i.e. the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (and other Ministries) and the Central
Pollution Control Board linked to state level implementation agencies;
the Departments of Environment, Forests, and the State Pollution
Control Boards (and other agencies), have proved to be largely
unsuccessful in effectively managing the protection of the
environment.
8.   Environmental management is a continuous process that consists of
three interconnected steps: (a) the collection and analysis of
relevant data; learning from worldwide best practices' and
incorporating these in the planning, formulation, and implementation
of policy including the setting of standards; (b) program
implementation, monitoring results and active compliance enforcement;
and (c) periodic verification through independent auditing. An
assessment of India's environmental management system suggests that
weaknesses are evident at each of these three main steps and at every
administrative level i.e. center, state and district (municipality
and panchayat). Further, despite the support provided by the Bank and
other donors under specific investment projects, more needs to be done
in the area of industrial pollution, particularly air emissions,
coastal zone management, urban land use including the citing of
industries, and mitigating environmental degradation in the mining
sector.
9.   In brief, environmental management capacity has to be enhanced.
This will require more effective professional and technical
integration of environmental concerns into policy planning,
formulation and implementation; changes to, and or enhancing
institutional structures to strengthen monitoring, compliance and
enforcement of environmental laws and standards; decentralizing center
level command-and-control of environmental initiatives to the state,
district and community both for local ownership and local relevance;
introducing more non-traditional approaches to environmental
management including an increased role for community-based non-
governmental organizations; and a recognition that training and
upgrading of staff and officials who operate the environmental
management institutions and agencies is a sound investment.
10. GOI's Sectoral Strategy. In December 1993, the GOI through the
MOEF issued the Environment Action Program - India (EAP). This plan
was developed after consultations with other Ministries, States and
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). The EAP was submitted to the
Bank by GOI in conformity with the requirements of Operational
Directive 4.02: Environment Action Plans. The EAP identified seven
environmental priorities for GOI as follows: (a) conservation and
sustainable utilization of biodiversity in selected ecosystems
including forests, mangroves, wetland, coral reefs, mountain
ecosystems; (b) afforestation, wastelands development and conservation
of soil and moisture and ensuring that water sources are not polluted;
(c) control of industrial and related pollution with an accent on the
reduction and or management of wastes, particularly hazardous wastes;
(d) improving access to clean technologies; (e) tackling urban
environmental issues; (f) an alternative energy plan; and
- 3-



(g) strengthening scientific understanding of environmental issues, as
well as strengthening structures for training at different levels,
orientation and creating environmental awareness.
11. Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement.
The proposed project is an integral part of IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for India (May 19, 1995). Specifically, the project
directly responds to the statement in the CAS (para. 70) that The
Bank is also discussing with the Government possible environmental
projects which would strengthen the capabilities of the institutions
and agencies in charge of formulating and implementing environmental
policies; monitoring and enforcing environmental legislation; and also
financing public investments where required to address area-wide
environmental issues such as air pollution; solid waste management,
including hazardous wastes, sewage disposal and sanitation.'
12. Another specific strategic thrust of the 1995 CAS was the
increased role of economic and sector work (ESW) in the policy
dialogue with GOI.    In January 1996, the India, Nepal, Bhutan Country
Department (SA2), South Asia Regional Office, completed a study which
began in January 1995: 'India's Environment: Taking Stock of Plans,
Programs, and Priorities. An Assessment of the Environment Action
Program - India. The analytic framework for the study consisted of
assessing each of the seven GOI-identified priority areas to determine
whether issues additional to those identified by the Government
required attention; understand better the major programs developed by
the government; assess the range, type, and impact of the support
provided by the World Bank and other donors; and outline policy
(legal, regulatory, economic) and institutional (administrative,
organizational), technical and scientific, and financial areas for
further concerted action. Estimates were also made of the magnitude
of the economic costs associated with environmental degradation as
measured by the impacts on health and productivity.
13. Among the numerous findings of the study, two in particular
provide additional rationale for IDA involvement. These findings were
that: (a) despite a strong legal framework and various Ministries at
the center, Departments and Boards at the state level; and local
agencies involved in environmental management, implementation remains
weak. Institutional capacity building to strengthen monitoring,
enforcement, and compliance with existing laws can have a high payoff;
and (b) recognizing that the government alone cannot be responsible
for environmental management, stronger efforts have to be made to
involve the large non-governmental organization community in programs
ranging from biodiversity conservation to alternative energy programs.
This cooperation will require transparent policies and practices such
as early involvement in the environmental impact assessment process,
access to information, and actions to increase involvement through
public participatory processes.
14. Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Operations. There are no previous
technical assistance credits to India for the environment or other
sectors. However, the Bank/IDA has an active program of support for
GOI's environmental priorities. Several of these Bank Group assisted-
projects include components to strengthen environmental management
capacity. Experience in India and elsewhere in the world suggests
- 4 -



that implementation (and disbursements) for these small components in
larger investment projects are slower-than-projected largely because
of inadequate preparation, overly ambitious and complex expectations;
and a lack of support and ownership by key Ministries and implementing
agencies. Technical assistance to cover training, expert services,
particularly expatriate consultants for software and other
developments, have been considered as a residual in many investment
projects.
15. Coordination with Other Donors. IDA works closely with other
multilateral and bilateral donors to provide support for India's
environmental protection programs. For example, the UNDP financed the
preparation of the EAP. Japan PHRD grants are being used to prepare
several environment projects including the proposed Hazardous Waste
Management and Urban (Delhi and Surat) Environmental Management
projects. The Bank also worked closely with Japan's Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) in the design of its Industrial Pollution
Prevention project in West Bengal. The United Kingdom Overseas
Development Agency is supporting the Bank/GOI study of Environmental
Issues in the Power Sector. Extensive consultations were held with
the UNDP, Asian Development Bank, USAID, UK-ODA, NORAD, DANIDA,
Australia, OECF, Canada, GTZ, and the Netherlands during the
environmental stocktaking exercise and the preparation of the proposed
project.
16. Project Objectives. The goal of the proposed project is to
assist the GOI to implement its environmental priorities as outlined
in the EAP of December 1993. (Para. 10) The specific objective of the
project is to enhance environmental management capacity to ensure
effective implementation of EAP priorities. This objective would be
achieved by:
(a) strengthening environmental policy planning;
(b) strengthening environmental monitoring and compliance at center,
state and local government levels; and
(c) supporting community and non-governmental organization
environmental mitigation initiatives.
17. Project Description. The project has four components. The
summary description of each component is presented below.
(a) Strengthening Environmental Policy Planning. This component has
six sub-components. The project would support (i) the MOEF's
Environmental Research Program (ERP) including a review of program
priorities and procedures, and training in research management; (ii)
upgrading and expanding MOEF's Environmental Information Service
(ENVIS); (iii) establishing an Environmental Economics, Indicators,
and Project Planning Cell in the MOEF and developing and implementing
a program of environmental economics in several major universities and
policy research institutes; (iv) developing and implementing a program
of training in environmental law as well as undertaking a
comprehensive review of current environmental legislation; (v) the
acceleration of the CPCB's review and updating of existing
- 5 -



environmental standards; and (vi) developing environmental indicators
and indices to provide policy makers with appropriate tools to make
rational environmental and economic decisions.
(b) Strengthening Environmental Monitoring and Compliance. This
component has four sub-components. The project would support programs
to: (i) review the functions, staffing, workload and location of the
Regional Offices of the MOEF to ensure the effective monitoring and
compliance with clearance conditions for MOEF-approved Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs) of development projects; (ii) train and
undertake demonstration projects to ensure that mining sector projects
comply with environmental regulations; (iii) expand the CPCB's zonal
atlas/industrial siting and ambient air quality monitoring programs;
and (iv) assist the Department of Ocean Development to implement a
program of studies and the development of Integrated Coastal and
Marine Area Management Plans (ICMAMPs) in selected states.
(c) Community and Non-Governmental Organization Initiatives. This
component has three subcomponents. The project would provide support
for: (i) a review and expansion of the National Environmental
Awareness Campaign (NEAC); (ii) the expansion of the Paryavaran Vahini
(Environmental Brigade) community-based environmental monitoring
program; and (iii) the establishment of a NGO Environmental Action
Fund in Gujarat to assist consortia of NGOs to undertake larger scale
mitigation programs.
(d) Gujarat. This component is designed to bring together all of the
elements of an effective environmental management system in one state.
Gujarat is the fastest industrializing state in India. Investments
estimated around Rs. 730 billion is expected in the next five years.
About Rs. 430 billion would be in highly polluting bulk drugs,
chemicals and dyestuff industries and port development. Managing the
tradeoffs between rapid industrial development and protection of the
environment is a key issue in the state. In addition to assistance to
be provided for the development of an ICMAMP, the development of state
environmental indicators and indices; and the NGO Environmental Action
Fund, the project would support the strengthening of the Department of
Environment and the Gujarat Ecology Commission; and the preparation of
a State Environment Action Program (SEAP);
18. Project Financing. Project costs are estimated at Rs 2,733.0
million (US $65.29 million equivalent). An IDA credit of US$50.0
million is being proposed. A second IDA credit may be considered at
the mid-term review in 1999, to cover the other high priority
technical assistance activities which have been identified.
19. Project Implementation. The MOEF would be responsible for
ensuring overall coordination among the various ministries and
institutions involved in the implementation of the project. A Project
Steering Committee (PSC), chaired by the Secretary, MOEF and including
the Secretaries of the Department of Ocean Development, the Chairman
of the Central Pollution Control Board; the Additional Chief
Secretary, Gujarat, and a representative from the Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance would be established. The PSC
would be serviced by a Project Cell in the MOEF. The PSC would ensure
the timely flow of funds, orderly reporting on project implementation,
- 6 -



and resolve implementation issues as soon as they arise. Specific
sub-components would be managed by the various project agencies,
inter-agency, and Advisory Committees established for the
environmental economics, environmental law, and mining sector
subcomponents.
20. Poverty Category. This project will not be included in the
Program of Targeted Interventions. However, indirectly better
environmental management will contribute over time to an improvement
in environmental conditions in rural and urban areas. This would have
a high benefit for the poor.
21. Environmental Aspects. There should be no direct adverse impacts
on the environment as a result of this technical assistance project.
Its outcome should contribute over time to an improvement in
environmental conditions in India. Therefore, the project has been
rated as Category 'C' for environmental review purposes.
22. Project Objective Category. The project falls under the main
program category of 'Environmental Institutions'.
23. Participatory Approach. The IDA Team, the Ministry of
Environment and Forests and the other implementing agencies interacted
closely throughout project preparation and appraisal. It should be
noted that one of the major justifications for the proposed project
was the review of the EAP which IDA undertook throughout 1995. This
process involved extensive consultations with Ministries at the
center, States, local authorities, and a wide range of non-
governmental organizations.
24. Project Benefits. The primary benefit of the proposed project is
that it would strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of
Environment and Forests, its Regional Offices, other ministries and
agencies particularly the Central Pollution Control Board at the
center to effectively implement, monitor and ensure compliance with
the environmental laws, policies, priorities, and programs of the
Government at center, state, district and local levels. Project
activities which will encourage ministries other than the MOEF to lead
in managing specific environmental problems will foster inter-agency
cooperation, build more capacity for environmental management, and
lead to a more integrated approach to environmental protection and
economic development. The project would also complement other
environmental institutional development efforts which are on-going
under other Bank/IDA assisted projects.
25.    Another benefit of the project is that a concerted effort would
be made to improve and expand the role of non-governmental
organizations and other grassroots organizations in the environmental
management system of India. The project would integrate splintered
environmental initiatives such as the National Environmental Awareness
Campaign, Paryavaran Vahini, media campaign and others into a focused
and thematic program of behavior change that would evolve from
raising awareness' to action. Several project activities will also
assist the Government to start the movement away from a pure command-
and-control regime to a more 'mixed-policy' approach of environmental
- 7-



management. Financial and other incentives will invite industry and
other development actors to be partners in the protection and
preservation of the environment.
26. Project Risks. There are two major risks. First, implementation
of a project with multiple sub-components involving several different
ministries and agencies at the center, state and local levels will be
difficult. Second, although the MOEF, CPCB and MOUAE have been the
recipients of previous Bank/IDA-assisted projects, they are still
relatively inexperienced in implementation given existing procedures
and practices. The solution to these risks lie in the fact that many
of the sub-components will be implemented on a pilot basis, have been
piloted already, or are on-going programs which will be revised and
gradually expanded. This level of preparation coupled with the
design-implement-design approach should ease some of the limitations
to speedy and effective implementation. Early contracting for
technical assistance services including 'twinning' will also help in
overcoming implementation constraints. The problem of coordination
and institutional capacities to implement will be addressed by the
arrangements for project management. The key is the establishment of
the Project Steering Committee and Advisory Committees with specific
tasks, responsibilities and authority.
27.  Status of Project Development.    The appraisal has been
completed.
28. Project Processing Timetable. Negotiations are tentatively
scheduled for June 17-21, 1996 and Board Presentation on July 30,
1996.
Contact Points:
Public Information Center           Richard Cambridge
The World Bank                      Principal Operations Officer
1818 H Street N.W.                  Environment (SA2DR)-The World Bank
Washington D.C. 20433               Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454        Telephone No.: (202)458-0302
Fax No.: (202)522-1500              Fax No.:   (202) 477-4510
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily      be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 5, 1996.
- 8 -



