Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2930 IN
                         Development Credit Agreement
                 (Environmental Management Capacity Building
                        Technical Assistance Project)
                                    between
                                     INDIA
                                      and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              Dated March 14, 1997
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2930 IN
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1997, between  INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and the
State of Gujarat (the Project State) with the assistance of the
Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Project State a part of the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Association and Gujarat;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
          a member of the Association or for goods produced in, or
          services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
          purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
          import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge
          of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
          United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
          the Charter of the United Nations."; and (c) Section 6.03
          is modified to read: "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the
          Association.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make
          withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
          suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a
          continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the
          Association determines, after consultation with the
          Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be required
          to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the
          proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association
          determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out
          of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent
          practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower
          or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or
          the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having
          taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the
          Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the
          amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which
          would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
          the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the
          Association determines that the procurement of any contract
          to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is incon-
          sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the
          Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of
          expenditures in respect of such contract which would other-
          wise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
          of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of
          the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account,
          the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
          the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect
          to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such
          amount of the Credit shall be cancelled."
     Section 1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "CPCB" means the Borrower's Central Pollution Control Board;
     (b)  "DOD" means the Borrower's Department of Ocean Development;
     (c)  "EMP" means any environment management plan developed for a
project as required by the Borrower's environmental laws and
regulations;
     (d)  "Environment Action Program" or "EAP" means the Environment
Action Program-India, dated December, 1993, issued by MOEF;
     (e)  "GDFE"  means Gujarat's  Department of Forests and
Environment;
     (f)  "Gujarat" means the Borrower's State of Gujarat, including
Page  3
any successor thereto;
     (g)  "MOEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and
Forests;
     (h)  "NGO" means non-governmental organization;
     (i)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Association and Gujarat, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (j)  "Project State" means Gujarat;
     (k)  "SPCB" means a Pollution Control Board of a State;
     (l)  "State" means a state of the Borrower; and
     (m)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 34,700,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of
India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2007 and ending  November 1, 2031.  Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2016 shall be one
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
for three consecutive years  the level established annually by the
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by: (A)  requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the
first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b)
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period
of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
     (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate environmental, management, administra-
tive, financial and economic practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause
the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the Implementation
Page  5
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall pass on proceeds of the Credit to Gujarat
for carrying out Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project in
accordance with standard arrangements for provision of development
funds to the States of India.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnished to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the
Project's objectives; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section including those for the
               Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after
               the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
Page  6
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and that the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
               cedures and internal controls involved in their
               preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Project State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which  have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Project State will perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and the Project State.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Project State respectively and is legally binding
upon it in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                   Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Director,
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
Page  7
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:           Telex:
               ECOFAIRS            953-3166175
               New Delhi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                    82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
                                             Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
                                               Regional Vice President
                                                            South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated        % of
                            (Expressed in      Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Consultants' Services    11,800,000      91%
(2)  Contractual Staff         3,600,000      91%
     Services
(3)  Training and fellow-     13,100,000      91%
     ships
(4)  Materials and books         700,000      40%
Page  8
(5)  Equipment                 2,400,000      40%
(6)  Unallocated               3,100,000
                              __________
          TOTAL               34,700,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, "contractual staff services"
means staff engaged on a full time basis by the Borrower or Gujarat,
or their agencies, under the Project to serve in any Project
Implementation Cell.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 350,000 may be
made in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1996.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for:
     (a)  goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent;
     (b)  services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent
for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employ-
ment of individual consultants respectively; and
     (c)  training and fellowships.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
implementing its Environment Action Program by strengthening
environmental management capacity in selected areas at the
national, state and local levels, as well as at the community
level.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening Environmental Policy Planning:
     Strengthening the capacity of  MOEF to undertake environmental
policy and planning by:
(1)  Environmental Research: Strengthening MOEF's Environmental
Research Program (ERP) by:
     (a)  reviewing ERP's current priorities and procedures and
formulating a revised ERP;
     (b)  provision of training to selected members of the scientific
research community in environmental research methodology under the
revised ERP; and
     (c)  provision of required equipment to MOEF to facilitate
internet access to environmental research data.
(2)  Environmental Information: Strengthening the Environmental
Information System (ENVIS) established by MOEF so as to establish
ENVIS as an on-line and geographically decentralized information
system by:
     (a)  expanding the ENVIS data system by establishing about nine
additional centers;
Page  9
     (b)  upgrading existing ENVIS centers to collect and analyze
environment-related data and provide to governmental and other public
users on-line access to such data;
     (c)  provision of training to ENVIS users as well as providers
of information in government, academia, business and community-based
non-governmental organizations; and
     (d)  carrying out analyses of data standardization, coding and
management to enhance compatibility of technology and data across
ENVIS centers; and undertaking studies to prepare proposals for
data-driven environmental support systems.
(3)  Environmental Economics: Strengthening teaching and research in
the area of environmental economics by:
     (a)  establishing an Environmental Economics, Indicators and
Project Planning Cell in MOEF;
     (b)  development of a model environmental economics curriculum,
along with related teaching materials and case studies, for diploma
and degree programs in environmental economics;
     (c)  development and implementation of a training program in
environmental economics for selected faculty of selected Indian
universities, including fellowships to attend limited duration
(about a year or less) environmental economics courses in selected
international centers;
     (d)  development and implementation of a training program in
environmental economics for non-economists intended for government
staff, including at the national, state and local levels, as well
as state pollution control board employees, personnel of business,
industry, the media, banking, non-governmental organizations and
other community-based organizations;
     (e)  establishment of  a minimum collection of environment-
related books and journals, based on appropriate professional
standards, at selected universities and other centers of research
and learning; and
     (f)  carrying out a program of applied research in environmental
economics through universities offering diploma and degree courses in
environmental economics and areas related thereto;
(4)  Environmental Indicators and Indices: Development by MOEF and
Gujarat of model indicators and indices, expressed in physical and
monetary terms and appropriate for use with respect to the objectives
of the EAP and environmental problems in India, that would provide a
continuing measure of environmental quality, enable the assessment
of the cost of mitigation measures and the monitoring of environmental
trends.
(5)  Environmental Standards: Review by MOEF and CPCB of the adequacy
of existing regulatory standards of the Borrowers and States, and the
need for new standards, with respect to air quality, water quality,
hazardous wastes and materials, hospital wastes, production of ozone
depleting substances, use of pesticides and industrial emissions.
Part B:   Strengthening Environmental Administration:
     Strengthening the administration of existing environmental
regulations at the national, state and local level, including
monitoring of and compliance with such regulations.
(1)  Strengthening Regional MOEF offices:
     Strengthening Regional MOEF offices including with respect to
their role relative to SPCBs and their role in monitoring imple-
mentation of environmental impact assessments and EMPs.
(2)  Strengthening Project Management and Implementation
Page  10
     (a)  Establishment and maintenance of Project Implementation
Cells in MOEF, DOD and GDFE to assist in the coordination of Project
implementation; and
     (b)  Provision to MOEF in Project implementation of expert
assistance by specialized institutions within India, particularly
with respect to Parts A(3), D and E(1) of the Project.
Part C:   Strengthening Decentralization of Environmental Management:
     Provision of assistance to local communities and non-governmental
organizations to support decentralization of environmental management
by:
(1)  Strengthening the National Environmental Awareness Campaign
     Strengthening the Borrower's National Environmental Awareness
Campaign (NEAC) by carrying out studies on the effectiveness of
NEAC; developing a plan for improved implementation of the NEAC
and for the development of NEAC into a national campaign; and
preparation of proposals for decentralization of NEAC to the State
level including piloting alternative strategies in two States; and
strengthening the production of material for training and public
outreach and awareness related to environmental regulation and
management;
(2)  Strengthening the Paryavaran Vahini
     Strengthening the Borrower's Paryavaran Vahini (PV) (environ-
mental brigade) including by a review of the existing PV program
the training of PV members and staff, and the expansion of the PV
to an additional 300 districts.
(3)  Establishment of a Non-Governmental Organization Environmental
     Action Fund
     Establishment of an NGO Environmental Action Fund (NEAF) to
support programs in Gujarat, carried out by selected NGOs and
community-based organizations, to anticipate, avoid or mitigate
adverse environmental impacts centering around specific environ-
mental problems, including of an emergency nature, emanating from
chemical industries, mining, waste disposal and protection of
ecologically fragile areas; as well as to support the participatory
process in the development and implementation of Gujarat's State
Environment Action Plan (SEAP).
Part D:   Strengthening Implementation of Environmental Law:
(1)  Strengthening Legal Infrastructure for Environmental Law:
     (a)  Provision of training in environmental law (including
international aspects) for legal staff of MOEF, CPCBs, SPCBs,
selected industrial managers and staff of selected non-govern-
mental organizations;
     (b)  strengthening legal capacity of MOEF, CPCBs and SPCBs by
skills acquisition and upgradation in priority areas based on
continuing needs assessment;
     (c)  establishment of a computerized environmental law network
to provide current information on environmental law at the national,
state and district levels; and
     (d)  strengthening environmental law research and legal education
in environmental law by: (i) the establishment of a center of
excellence in environmental law at a law school in India; (ii)
development of teaching materials; (iii) training of environmental
faculty of selected Indian law schools; (iv) assessment of the scope
and coverage of environmental laws; (v) carrying out selective
empirical research into traditional/customary environmental law; and
(vi) establishing an environmental law journal to be published by a
Page  11
selected law school in India.
(2)  Strengthening Community-Based Implementation of Environmental Law
     (a)  Development of specific strategies (including through
piloting) for: (i) decentralization and devolution of environmental
law administration; (ii) public hearings related to key environmental
decisions; (iii) community-based monitoring of compliance with
environmental laws; and (iv) establishing pre-litigatory remedies
for persons/ communities adversely affected by environmental impacts;
and
     (b)  development of the capacity of selected NGOs in environ-
mental law, including the piloting of the above strategies.
Part E:   Strengthening Monitoring and Compliance in Specific High-
          Priority Environmental Problem Areas
(1)  Strengthening Administration and Development, of Environmental
Regulations Governing the Mining Sector:
     (a)  (i) Review of existing environmental and leasing policies,
regulations and standards governing the mining sector; (ii) review
of the roles and responsibilities of national, State and local level
agencies with responsibilities for the implementation of such
policies; regulations and standards; and (iii) the development and
implementation of proposals for strengthening the implementation of
such policies, regulations and standards;
     (b)  Strengthening of (i) national and State level governmental
institutions (Regional offices of MOEF, CPCB, SPCBs and Indian Bureau
of Mines) responsible for establishing policies, regulations and
standards governing the mining sector to enhance their capacity to
monitor compliance with EMPs in the mining sectors; and (ii) selected
centers engaged in mining policy analysis as well as research agencies
and units within mining companies working on environmental issues in
the mining sector, to develop their expertise in planning, design
and implementation of environmentally benign mining designs, function
as resource groups to support the Borrower and States; and to carry
out selected specific research and studies regarding environmental
issues relevant to the mining sector;
     (c)  Implementation of best practice demonstration projects for
specific environmental mitigation measures for the mining sector;
and
     (d)  Provision of training in environmental protection in the
mining sector to key staff of MOEF, CPCB, SPCBs, Indian Bureau of
Mines and other entities in the mining sector.
(2)  Strengthening Capacity for Industry Siting
     Assisting the CPCB to implement a five year program to map
rapidly industrializing districts across India, State-wide mapping
of ecologically sensitive areas and proposed sites for new
industrial estates in coordination with States and SPCBs, the
development of national and selected State-level guidelines for
industrial siting and land use planning.
(3)  Strengthening Ambient Air Pollution Monitoring:
     Provision of assistance to upgrade India's air pollution
monitoring system by:
     (a)  Upgrading the scope and capacity of the current air
pollution monitoring system to: (i) expand its geographic coverage;
and (ii) increase the number of criteria pollutants being monitored;
and
     (b)  Provision of training to CPCB and SPCB staff in monitoring
techniques, data management, analysis, and reporting of results.
Page  12
(4) Strengthening Coastal and Marine Area Management:
     Development of an appropriate coastal zone and marine area
environmental management regime including by:
     (a)  Development of a Geographical Information System (GIS)-
based Critical Habitats Information System (CHIS) for selected
coastal marine areas of India including Lakshadweep and Andaman
and Nicobar islands;
     (b)  (i) development of capacity for the development of
Integrated Coastal Marine Area Management Plans (ICMAMPs) by
provision of required training as well as necessary expert
assistance to coastal States and coastal Union Territories;
(ii) development of model ICMAMPs for selected areas; and (iii)
establishment of required training facilities for strengthening
coastal and marine area management;
     (c)  conducting waste assimilation capacity and waste load
allocation studies  including ecological modeling for selected
estuaries facing water quality problems due to urban and
industrial development, including the development of appropriate
recommendations as well as guidelines regarding wastewater load
allocation studies; and
     (d)  (i) development of environmental impact assessment
guidelines, where such guidelines are not in place, for marine
and coastal area development activities under projects requiring
MOEF clearance pursuant to MOEF's Notification dated January 27,
1994 entitled 'Environmental Impact Assessment of Development
Projects'; (ii) establishment of a resource center as an Internet
Web Site with a compilation of data to facilitate implementation
of marine environmental impact assessment; (iii) carrying out of
required training programs pertaining to marine and coastal area
development activities; (iv) development of appropriate recom-
mendations to MOEF for strengthening environmental impact assess-
ment of marine and coastal area development; and (v) development
of guidelines for accrediting environmental consultants and
institutions with respect to environmental aspects of marine and
coastal area development.
Part F:   Strengthening Environmental Capacity in Gujarat:
(1)  Institutional Strengthening: Strengthening of Gujarat's
Department of Environment and Forests and the Gujarat Ecology
Commission to enhance their capacity for data collection,
analysis, policy formulation and implementation and monitoring
compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
(2)  Development of a State Environment Action Program for Gujarat:
Development of a State Environment Action Program (SEAP) for Gujarat
through a participatory process which would establish a prioritized
and time bound program for implementation.
                                *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January 1996 and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Page  13
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 1 of this Part B:
     (a)  Grouping of Contracts
     To the extent practicable, contract for goods shall be grouped
in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or less but more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping; and Direct Contracting
     (a)  Contracts estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less each
for equipment, books and materials, up to an aggregate amount of
$8,000,000 equivalent, may be awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Books and computer software which are only available on a
proprietary basis from a single source may be purchased up to an
aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent through direct contracts
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:    Employment of Consultants
Page  14
1.   Consultants' services (which also include contractual staff
services under Category (2) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the pro-
visions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Association, other standard forms
acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Asso-
ciation review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection pro-
cedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of con-
sulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
Project Management
1.   The Borrower shall maintain (a) a national steering committee;
and (b) expert committees with respect to Part A(3) (Environmental
Economics); Part E(1) (Mining Sector) and  Part D (Environmental
Law), each with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   The Borrower shall carry out Part E(4) of the Project through
DOD; Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project through Gujarat;
and all remaining Parts of the Project through MOEF.
3.   The Borrower shall establish by August 31, 1997, and thereafter
maintain, an Environmental Economics, Indicators and Project Planning
Cell in MOEF with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
Project Implementation Plan
4.   The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an
implementation plan satisfactory to the Association.
Strengthening MOEF
5.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1997, complete the review
and commence implementation of a plan, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion for strengthening the regional offices of MOEF.
Strengthening Legal Capacity of MOEF, CPCB and SPCBs
6.   The Borrower shall take necessary steps to strengthen the legal
capacity of MOEF, CPCB and SPCBs under Part D(1) (b) of the Project
in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association.
Environmental Indicators
7.   The Borrower shall (i) prepare, or cause to be prepared by
Gujarat, by December 31, 1998, environmental indicators under Part
A(4) of the Project; and (ii) apply, or cause to be applied, such
Page  15
indicators in the evaluation of investment projects by MOEF and
Gujarat commencing April 30, 1999.
8.   The Borrower shall take necessary action to ensure that,
commencing April 30, 1999, annual environment status reports are
published by MOEF based on indicators and indices developed under
Part A(4) of the Project.
Annual Work Plans and Budget; Mid-Term Review
9.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  review annually with the Association progress in Projectimplementation and 
Credit disbursements over the preceding twelve
months;
     (b)  discuss with the Association by March 31 of each year,
annual work plans and budgets for the next twelve months;
     (c)  carry out with the Association mid-term review of the
Project no later than March 31, 1999; and
     (d)  duly take into account the comments offered by the
Association during such mid-term review in the course of further
implementation of the Project.
Performance Monitoring Indicators
10.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
following indicators the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof (indicators for Parts A(4),
B(2), C(3) and F are set out in paragraph 8 of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement).
Part A:  Strengthening Environmental Policy Planning
     (a)  Review of research guidelines and procedures completed.
     (b)  All ENVIS Centers upgraded with information technology.
     (c)  Specialized expertise used in the review and revision of
five industrial standards.
Part B:  Strengthening Environmental Administration
     Study on the reorganization  of Regional MOEF offices completed.
Part C:  Strengthening Decentralization of Environmental Management
     About one hundred and  thirty persons trained under the National
Environment Awareness Campaign.
Part D:  Strengthening Implementation of Environmental Law
     (a)  For Project implementation:
          (i)  Training needs (for MOEF, CPCB and SPCBs; as well as
               for environmental law teachers and community-based
               organizations) assessed and training programs prepared.
         (ii)  Assessment of adequacy of environment legal framework
               completed, particularly to enhance community-based
               implementation of environmental law.
     (b)  For Project Impact/Outcome:
          (i)  Strengthened legal capacity:  Trained legal staff in
               place in MOEF, CPCB and SPCBs in accordance with
               Project parameters; trained environment law teachers
Page  16
               and courses in place in at least 25 law schools;
               trained legal staff in place in selected community-
               level institutions.
         (ii)  Improved legal environmental law framework:
               recommendations of adequacy of assessment of
               environmental law considered and implementation
               commenced as appropriate.
Part E:  Strengthening Monitoring and Compliance in Specific High-
         Priority Environmental Problem Areas
     (a)  For Project implementation:
          (i)  Environmental Regulations in the Mining Sector:
               Review of existing policies and compliance monitoring
               mechanisms completed.
         (ii)  Industrial Siting (Zonal Atlas): Zonal Atlases for
               20 districts completed.
        (iii)  Ambient Air Pollution Monitoring: Procurement and
               installation of air quality monitoring equipment
               completed.
         (iv)  Coastal and Marine Area Management: Overseas training
               for ten staff completed.
     (b)  For Project impact/outcome:
          (i)  Environmental Regulations in the Mining Sector:
               Increase in use of environmentally benign mining
               technologies.
         (ii)  Industrial Siting (Zonal Atlas): Improved planning
               for industrial growth through local-level mapping
               of suitable and unsuitable sites for industrial
               estates.
        (iii)  Ambient Air Pollution Monitoring: More reliable and
               timely air pollution data covering additional key
               pollutants.
         (iv)  Coastal and Marine Area Management: Model ICMAMPs,
               GIS-based CHIS, WLA and Environmental Impact Assess-
               ment Guidelines completed.
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, at the mid-term review
referred to in paragraph 9(c) above, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pur-
suant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achieve-
ment of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, during the mid-term review
referred to in paragraph 9(c) above or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommen-
dations of the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  17
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $3,000,000 withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this
Schedule.
2.   (a)  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
     (b)  Each payment (including a payment under a letter of credit)
for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or less than the
equivalent of $750,000 shall be made exclusively out of the Special
Account. The Association may from time to time, by notice to the
Borrower, revise the threshold amount specified in the preceding
sentence.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Association shall,
               on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
Page  18
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the Project, minus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Asso-
ciation pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
