Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2930 IN
                              Project Agreement
                 (Environmental Management Capacity Building
                        Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                                  GUJARAT
                             Dated March 14, 1997
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2930 IN
                               PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GUJARAT acting by its Governor,
(hereinafter referred to as "Project State");
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty four million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,700,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that the Project State agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Project State, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                                 Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to
Page  2
this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                                 ARTICLE II
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) The Project State declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, or
cause to be carried out, Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
environmental, management, administrative, financial and economic
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Project State shall carry out Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) The Project State shall carry out the obli-
gations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A(4),
B(2), C(3) and F of the Project.
     (b)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnished to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Association and the Project
State, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the
objectives of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project; and
     (c)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on the plan referred to in
Section 2.03(b) above.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Project State shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project, the
performance by it of its obligations under this Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  The Project State shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Project State shall maintain records and
accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices, its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
activities related to Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project,
of the departments or agencies responsible for carrying out Parts
A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project.
     (b)  The Project State shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
Page  3
               (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
               able to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, certified copies of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE IV
                         Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project State thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Project State of
this event.
     Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE V
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INDEVAS               197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.      248423 (RCA),
                                      64145 (WUI) or
Page  4
                                      82987 (FTCC)
     For  Gujarat:
          Chief Secretary to the Government
            of Gujarat
          Gandhinagar, India
     Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of the Project State may be taken or executed by its Chief
Secretary or such other person or persons as the Chief Secretary shall
designate in writing and the Project State shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                              South Asia
               GUJARAT
               By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
                                               Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                           Implementation Program
Project Management
1.   The Project State shall establish by August 31, 1997 and maintain
a Project Implementation Cell in GDFE with responsibility to supervise
the implementation of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project,
with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
NGO Environmental Action Fund
2.   The Project State shall establish and operate commencing August 31,
1997, an NGO environmental action fund under Part C(3) of the Project
in accordance with arrangements and a time schedule satisfactory to the
Association.
SEAP
3.   The Project State shall, by March 31, 1999, prepare a State
Environment Action Program (SEAP) satisfactory to the Association.
Environmental Indicators
Page  5
4.   The Project State shall, in collaboration with the Borrower, by
December 31, 1998: (i) prepare environmental indicators; and (ii)
apply, or cause to be applied, such indicators in the evaluation of
investment projects commencing April 30, 1999.
5.   The Project State shall take necessary action to ensure that,
commencing April 30, 1999, annual environment status reports are
published by GDFE based on indicators and indices developed under
Part A(4) of the Project.
Project Implementation Plan
6.   The Project State shall carry out Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F
of the Project in accordance with an implementation plan satisfactory
to the Association.
Annual Work Plans and Budget; Mid-Term Review
7.   The Project State shall:
     (a)  review annually with the Association progress in the
implementation of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project and
Credit disbursements over the preceding twelve months;
     (b)  discuss with the Association by March 31 of each year,
annual work plans and budgets for the next twelve months;
     (c)  carry out with the Association mid-term review of Parts
A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project no later than March 31,
1999; and
     (d)  duly take into account the comments offered by the
Association during such mid-term review in the course of further
implementation of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project.
Performance Monitoring Indicators
8.   The Project State shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the
following indicators the carrying out of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and
F of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof:
For Project Implementation:
1.   GDFE training completed;
2.   Draft database for environmental indicators and indices in Gujarat
completed;
3.   Draft ICMAMP prepared;
4.   State of Environment in Gujarat Report completed; and
5.   First two Phases of SEAP completed.
For Project Impact/Outcome:
1.   Increased effectiveness of GDFE in maintaining environmental
concerns in state plans, programs and projects.
2.   (a)  Improved information and outreach of State Government to NGOs
on environmental issues.
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, at the mid-term review
referred to in paragraph 7 (c) above, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pur-
suant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting
Page  6
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and
     (c)  review with the Association, during the mid-term review
referred to in paragraph 7(c) above or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of Parts A(4), B(2), C(3) and F of
the  Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Association's views on the matter.
