                                      Documentof
                                   The World Bank




                                                        ReportNo.: 44250




                   PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                        INDIA

                ENVIRONMENTALMANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING
                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                    (CREDIT 2930-IN)



                                      June 23,2008




Sector EvaluationDivision
IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit =Indian Rupees (h.)

1996          US$1.oo           Rs.35.43                2002         US$l.oo          Rs.48.61
1997                            Rs.36.31                2003         US$l.oo
                                                                     US$1.oo          Rs.46.59
              US$l.oo
              US$1.oo
1998                            Rs.41.25                2004                          Rs.45.08
1999          US$l.oo           Rs.43.05                2005         US$1.oo          Rs.43.61
2000          US$l.oo           Rs.44.94                2006 (July)  US$1.OO          Rs.45.11
2001          US$l.oo           Rs.47.19
Source: WorldBank and UNDPdatabases

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AQM          Air Quality Monitoring
CETP         Common Effluent Treatment Plant
CNG          CompressedNaturalGas
CP           Clean ProductionTechniques
CPCB         Central Pollution ControlBoard
CZM          CoastalZone Management
DOD          Departmento f Ocean Development
EAP          EnvironmentalAction Plan
EIA          EnvironmentalImpactAssessment
EMCB         EnvironmentalManagementCapacity BuildingTechnical AssistanceProject
ENVIS        EnvironmentalInformationSystem
GEC          Gujarat EcologyCommission
GOG          Government of Gujarat
GO1          Government of India
GTZ          Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical CooperationAgency)
IAS          IndianAdministrativeService
ICMAM        IntegratedCoastal and MarineArea Management, DOD
ICR          ImplementationCompletionReport
ICZM         IntegratedCoastalZone Management
IEG          IndependentEvaluationGroup (formerlyOED)
IPCP         IndustrialPollution ControlProject
MOEF         Ministry of Environmentand Forests
MTR          Mid-termReview
PPAR         ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
SDR          SpecialDrawingRights
SEAP         State EnvironmentalAction Plan
SEF          State Environmentand Forestry Ministry
SME          Smalland MediumEnterprise
SMOEF        State Ministry o fEnvironmentand Forestry
SPCB         State PollutionControlBoard


Fiscal Year

Government:               April 1-March31



Director-General,Evaluation                               : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)         : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, SectorEvaluationDivision                         : Ms.Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                              : Mr.John Redwood

                                                              i



 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent EvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Banks work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Banks Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loankredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe government and implementing agency
or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements,
toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government performance and
implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly Satisfactory,
Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         iii


Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS               ....................................................................................................................     V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................    V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................       vi1


SUMMARY      .....................................................................................................................................       IX


1.      BACKGROUND                 .................................................................................................................      1


2.      PROJECT DESIGNAND IMPLEMENTATION                                              ..................................................................  2


3.      PLANNEDVS              .ACTUAL            COSTS AND FINANCING                            ......................................................  16


4.      MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                    .................................................................................    18


5.      OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES BY OBJECTIVE                                               ..............................................................   19


6.      RATINGS         ..........................................................................................................................       21


7.      CONCLUSIONS                 ...............................................................................................................      24


8.      LESSONSLEARNED                       ......................................................................................................      26


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
           .                                       .................................................................................................     29


ANNEX B    .ILLUSTRATIONOF                      ENVIRONMENTALSTANDARDS                                      ............................................ 33




This report was preparedby John Redwoodand Daniel R Gross. whose field missiontook place in April
                                                                                 .
2006.Researchsupport was providedby Debora Brakarz. Soon-WonPak providedadministrativesupport                                                             .


                                                      V



PrincipalRatings


                                          ICR*                  ICR Review*                     PPAR

Outcome                          Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately
                                                                                       Unsatisfactory
Institutional                      Modest                     Modest                         NR
Development
Impact**
Risk to                               NR                         NR                      Significant
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***                   Likely                Non-Evaluable                      NR
Bank                           Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory****
Performance
Borrower                         Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
**AS of July 1, 2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***AS of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.
**** Based primarily on Quality at Entry.
NR = not rated




Project               Task ManagedLeader               Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                       Sector Director
Appraisal                Richard Cambridge            Luiz Ernest0 Derbez               Edwin Lim
Corndetion               David C. Hanrahan              Jeffrey S. Racki              Michael F. Carter


                                              vii


Preface

        The EnvironmentalManagement Capacity BuildingTechnical Assistance Project
(hereafter EMCB) was approved on December 23, 1996 and closed on June 30,2004,
after a one-year extension o f the closing date. The Credit amount was US$49.1 million,
about 80 percent o fthe estimated total cost o fUS$61.6 million. Disbursements reached
US$22.1 million, or about 45 percent o fthe original Credit. OnMarch 30, 2001 US$
19.54 million o f the undisbursed balance was reallocated for earthquake reliefinGujarat
State as part o f a larger disaster response package drawing on several active projects. On
the closing date, the actual cost o fthe EMBC project was about 45 percent o f that
estimated at appraisal, and a total o fUS$5.31million o fthe original Credit had been
cancelled, mainly at the time o f closing. The Credit Agreement hadbeen amended four
times.

        This PPARwas carried out inparallelto abroader evaluation o fBank Group
effectiveness insupporting environmental sustainability for which Indiawas one o fnine
country case studies. Particular attention was given to projects that aimed at
strengthening environmental management capacity at the national level. The EMBC
Project was selected as an example o f the Bank's efforts inthis regard inthe 1990sand
early 2000s and represents one o fthe relatively few stand-alone projects that have
focused exclusively on strengtheningenvironmentalmanagement capacity.

        A largebodyo fdocumentationwas reviewed, including relevantBank ESW and
correspondence, appraisal and supervision reports, Government o f India (GOI)
documents, reports issuedby scholars and various institutions on environmental
management concerns inIndia, and other sources. Discussions were heldwith Bank staff
memberswho hadbeeninvolvedinproject preparation, appraisal, and/or
implementation. Valuable insights were obtained from Bank staff both inWashington
and New Delhi.A field mission was undertaken inApril 2006 and there were several
follow-up discussions over the subsequent period which afforded an opportunity to meet
and discuss the project with government officials and others who had been directly
involved inproject implementation. Visits were made to New Delhi and to Ahmedabad
andBaroda inGujarat, for which the project had a specific component. Meetingswere
held with officials inthe Ministry o f Environment andForests (MOEF), the Institute o f
Economic Growth (IEG) o fDelhiUniversity,the Gujarat State Ministry o f Environment,
the Gujarat Ecology Commission (GEC), and several private consultants who had
participatedinthe project, among others.

        IEGwould like to express its appreciation to all those who kindlysharetheir
knowledge and assisted the evaluationteam inthe preparationo f this report.

        FollowingstandardIEGprocedures,copies ofthe draft PPAR were sent to the Borrower
for comments, butnone were received.


                                               ix


Summary

        The Environment Management Capacity Building(EMCB) Project was intended
to strengthenenvironmental management capacity inselected areas at the national, state,
and local -- including  (on a pilot basis) community  -- levels.More specifically, it sought
to help the Government o f India (GOI) implement its environmental priorities as outlined
inits EnvironmentAction ProgramofDecember 1993.Thisobjective was to be achieved
by strengthening environmental policy planningand administration, decentralizing
selected environmental activities to local communities and non-governmental
organizations, implementingenvironmental law, and monitoring compliance with
environmental laws and standards inhighpriority problem areas. The project was timely
andresponsive to the stated needs ofthe Borrower giventhat India's rapid economic,
demographic, and industrial growth was, at the time, causing pollution and environmental
degradation at a rising rate. Inparallel, civil society was becoming stronger and
beginningto demandbetter public controls on pollution, deforestation, and biodiversity
loss.

        The project was complex and involved a broad range o ftopics andinstitutions.
Some components were dropped early during implementation and others were not fully
implemented as designed. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was conducted inMay 1999,
changes were adopted, and several amendments to the Credit Agreement were processed.
Nearly half o f the original Credit was reallocated to an emergency reconstruction project
following a major earthquake inGujarat in2001. While the Ministry o f Environment and
Forests (MOEF) was nominally the coordinating agency, central coordination appears to
have been minimal and actual implementationdecisions seem to have been largely
entrusted to individual participating agencies.

        Dueto its modest design relevance, efficacy, and efficiency the overall outcome
rating for this project i s moderately unsatisfactory,even though its objectives were
relevant.This rating also reflectsthe project's lack o f a coherent strategy to strengthen
environmental management, fragmented and incremental approach to institutional
capacity building, and failure to engage with organizations and sectors that were
champions o f environmental protection. Despite these shortcomings, the project did have
some positive outcomes, perhaps the most important beingexpansion o f the national
Environmental Information System (ENVIS) and many studies generated under the
Environmental Economics component, which also fostered the growth o f indigenous
research that could potentially help guide future policymaking.

        These accomplishments notwithstanding, the risk to development outcomes i s
considered significant inpart because there was no immediate follow-on operation in
support o fproject objectives, while government commitment remains unclear, especially
at the subnational level. Bank Performance i s rated unsatisfactoryprimarily because o f
poor quality at entry. Borrower Performance i s also rated unsatisfactorybecause o f the
low level o f achievement, long delays, and apparent lack o f commitment to the goals o f
the project.

                                               X



        The principal conclusions o f this assessment are that: (i) project's central
                                                                  the
weakness was that it was conceived mainly interms o f inputs to building institutional
capacity and there was little concrete action to improve the environmentper se; (ii)   those
components that could have had a direct impact on environmental quality were relatively
neglected; (iii)the project gave too much attentionto developing tools for environmental
regulation and did not question the existing (command-and-control) approach to such
regulation; (iv) the project was too complex for a single agency to manage and lackedthe
full support o fthe Government of India; (v) the project provided few incentivesfor
decision makers at various levels to adopt or support major reforms; and (vi) GO1missed
an opportunity to take advantage o f growing civil society concern with environmental
quality to help gamer greater support for project objectives and activities.

        Among the main lessons leamed were:

        0   Strengthening management capacity does not necessarily or automatically
           lead to improvements inenvironmental quality; improving management
           capacity focused on a well-defined and socially demanded set o f
           environmental goals would probably yield better results.

        0  Environmental monitoring i s a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for
           improving environmental quality; monitoring programs should be designed
           around the demand for data by decision makers rather than the simple demand
           for data.

        0  To enhance the effectiveness o f operations like this one, a priority-setting
           process which involves various stakeholders should precede project design
           and appraisal.

        Associated lessons are that a sharper focus on environmental results and a better
ex ante analysis o f the political economy o f environmental regulation could have made
this amore successful project with more sustainable outcomes. The project also
demonstrates the risks of designing an operationaround the interests o f individual
institutional champions, as occurred both at the central government level and inGujarat
state, because, once those champions leave, the impetus may soon be lost.




                                                                     Vinod Thomas
                                                                   Director-General
                                                                      Evaluation

                                                    1


1. Background

1.      The EMCB project was designedinpart to supportthe objective inthe 1995 CAS
to strengthenenvironmental management capacity at the Federal and State levels.' Itwas
prepared over a very brieffour-month period to take advantage of unallocated IDA funds.
The principal source of guidance for the project was the Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) issued by the Government of IndiainDecember 1993, which identified seven
priority areas:

        (a) conservation and sustainableutilizationof biodiversity inselected ecosystems
             includingforests, mangroves, wetlands, coral reefs, mountain ecosystems;
        (b) afforestation, wastelanddevelopmentand conservation of soil andmoisture
             and ensuring that water sources are not polluted;
        (c) control of industrial andrelatedpollution with an accent on the reduction and
             or management of wastes, particularly hazardouswastes;
        (d) improving access to clean technologies;
        (e) tackling urban environmental issues;
        (f)an alternative energy plan; and
        (8) strengthening scientific understandingof environmental issues, as well as
             structures for training at different levels, orientation and creating
             environmental awareness.

2.      Theproject also drew on a Bank sector study entitled "India's Environment:
Taking Stock of Plans, Programs, and Priorities An Assessment of the Environment
                                                        -
Action Program -India," completed inearly 1996. This study reviewed each ofthe focal
areas identifiedby the EAP and estimatedthe magnitude of the economic costs imposed
by environmental degradationineach area. Two conclusions of this study stand out,
namely that: (i)  eventhough a strong legal framework for environmental protection
existed inIndia, enforcementwas weak across the various boards and agencies
responsiblefor implementing the law; and (ii)         government alone could not reverse
environmental degradation      -- industry,  communities, andthe public at large hadto be
enlisted to attack problems at their base.

3 ,     The Environmental ManagementCapacity Building (EMCB) Project was
preparedjust as an Industrial PollutionControl Project was closing (IPCP) and, during
EMCB's early implementation, preparation ofthe follow-on Industrial Pollution
Prevention Project (IPPP) hadjust commenced. These two projects have recently also
been assessedby IEG.'




1. Memorandumofthe Presidentfor a Country AssistanceStrategy for India, May 19, 1995. See especially
paragraphs 68 and 70 and attachment 2, Sections (c)and (0.
2. IEG, ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report-India-Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 3334-
INandCredit22.52-IN) andIndustrialPollutionPreventionProject (Loans3779and 3780-IN andCredit
2645-IN), Report 38472, January 25,2007.

                                                  2


2. ProjectDesign and Implementation

4.       The Environmental Management Capacity BuildingTechnical Assistance Project
(hereafter EMCB) was approved on December 23, 1996, and closed on June 30,2004,
after a one-year extension o f the closing date. The Credit amount was US$49.1 milli~n,~
about 80 percent o f the estimated total cost o f US$61.6 million. Disbursements reached
US$22.1 million or 45 percent o f the value o fthe Credit. On March30,2001, about
US$19.54 million4 inproject funds were reallocated for earthquake relief inGujarat
State as part o f a larger disaster response package drawing on several active projects. On
the closing date, the total actual cost o fthe EMBC project was about 45 percent of the
cost estimated at appraisal. The project was managed by four different Task Managers
over its life. The Credit Agreement was amended four times.


5.       The EMCB project aimed at supporting the development o f tools to strengthen the
capacity o f Indianfederal, state and local agencies to manage the environment. Although
initially linkedto the EAP, the EMCB didnot directly tackle most o fthe priority areas
identified by it and the project was delinkedfrom the Plan during implementation at the
Bank's insistence becausenone ofthe priority issues identified inthe EAP was directly
addressed by the project's activities.

6.       Objectives. The project's general objective, as stated inthe President's
Memorandum to the Board o f Directors, was "to assist the GO1to implement its
environmental priorities as outlined inthe EnvironmentAction Program India (EAP) o f
                                                                               -
December 1993. The reference to the EAPwas deleted inan Amendment to the Credit
Agreementdated December 1,2000 which read as follows: "The objective o fthe project
is to assist the Borrower instrengthening environmental management capacity inselected
areas at the national, state and local levels, as well as at the community level." According
to the appraisal document, the project's "subobjectives" were: (i)      strengthening
environmental policy planning and administration; (ii)       decentralization of selected
environmental activities to local communities and non-governmental organizations; (iii)
implementation o f environmental law; and(iv) monitoring o f compliance with
environmental laws and standards inspecific highpriority environmental problem areas.

7.       To achieve these objectives, the project was divided into six partshavingthe
following components (and associated costs as estimated at the time o f appraisal, with all
monetary values expressed inUS$ millions). The basic objective o f each component and
institutionresponsible for its implementationare also indicated below. Four components
-specificallyforenvironmentalindicatorsandindices, establishingnewregionalMOEF
offices, launching a National Environmental Awareness campaign, and expansion of
local environmental brigades -- were dropped and two - for environmental impact



3. The original Credit Agreement (denominated in SpecialDrawing Rights SDR) was for SDR 34.7
                                                                      -
million.
4. The reallocation was denominatedin SDRs and totaled SDR15.5 million.

                                           3

assessment and environmental education, respectively -- were addedafter the Mid-Term
Review (MTR).

      PartA: EnvironmentalPolicyPlanning(US$13.91M)

      Environmental Research(US$2.94M)- Ministry of Environment and Forests
      JMOEF)   - to improve the quality of environmental researchthrough the
      strengtheningof the systemof grant making for environmental research.

      Environmental InformationSystem(US$1.46M) -MOEF            - toexpand and
      upgradethe Environmental Information System (ENVIS)network of centers
      locatedinvarious institutions across the country.

      Environmental Economics (US$6.8M)      - Madras  School of Economics --to support
      curriculumand faculty developmentinenvironmental economics.

      Environmental Indicators and Indices (US$1.21M) - MOEF -to develop
      environmental indicators (later dropped).

      Environmental Standards(US$l SM)-Central Pollution Control Board CCPCB)        -
      to support development of technical standards for industrial sectors.

      Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) -MOEF        -- toimprove the
      environmental clearance (licensing) process, the quality of EIA reporting, and
      compliance with Environmental Management Plans (added after MTR).

      PartB: StrengtheningEnvironmentalAdministration(US$3.83M)

      EstablishNew MOEF Regional Offices (US$1.46M) -MOEF - to open
      additional MOEF offices, further deconcentratingits administration (later
      dropped).

      Proiect ManagementUnits(US$2.37M)

                  (a) Ministry of Environment and Forests-MOEF (US$0.76M)
                  (b) Departmentof OceanDevelopment (US$0,87M)
                  (c) Gujarat Departmentof Forestsand Environment (US$0.74M)

      Part C: Decentralizationof EnvironmentalManagement(US$5.41M)

      National Environmental Awareness Campaign (US$2.03M) -MOEF to develop -
      environmental education materials for aNational Environmental Awareness
      Campaignto be disseminatedthrough the schools andthe media (later dropped).

      -Strengthening existing program of local environmental brigades, which were
                     ParvavaranVahini (Environmental Brigades) (US$0.98M)- MOEF
       to expandan

                                                     4


        intendedto monitor environmental conditions locally and report themto the
        MOEF and state environmental agencies (later dropped).'

        Establishment ofNGO Environmental Action Fund(US$2.4M)- Guiarat Ecology
         Commission (GEC) -- originally intendedto be implementednationwide, but was
         implemented only inGujarat as apilot; GEC made small grants to a number of
        environmental NGOs to helpthem design and implement specific programs.

        Environmental Education-MOEF -- to introduce environmental issues to school
        curricula at state level through teacher preparation and the development of
        educational materials (addedafter the MTR inpart to compensatefor dropping
        the awareness campaign and environmental brigade components).

         Part D:Implementationof EnvironmentalLaw (US$4.15M)

        Environmental Law (US$4,15M)- National Law School of India - to establisha
        national environmental law center and network through syllabus and curriculum
        development, teaching, andtraining. The component sought to advance
        environmental law as part of the curriculum of India's law schools and to help
        develop syllabi for environmental law courses. It also provided resources for
        training andparticipation inworkshops inIndia and abroad.

         Part E: Monitoringand Compliancein Specific High-PriorityEnvironmental
         ProblemAreas (US$26.93M)

        MiningSector (US$6.31M) - MOEF andsectoral agencies to review polices,    -
         standards, and compliance and support pilot projects inthe mining sector.

        Zoning Atlas (Industry Siting) (US$8.44M) -CPCB                   - to upgrade industrial siting
         (i.e,, locational) guidelines, the expansionof an existing mapping program, and
        pilot cases of industrial planning.

         Ambient Air PollutionMonitoring (US$6.47M) -CPCB - to support the design of
         networks andacquisition of air-quality-monitoring (AQM) equipment for sixteen
        major urbanareas.

         Coastal and Marine Area Management (US$5.71M)- Department of Ocean
        Development -to develop GIS systems for coastal and marine area management
         (CMAM) andto model integratedCMAM plans. Itwas also intendedto produce
        EIA guidelines for coastalzone development.




5. The official descriptionof the Paryavaran Vahini is "to create environmentalawareness and involvement
of people throughactive participation and reporting of illegal acts pertaining to forests, wildlife, pollution
and environmental degradation, a new scheme namely Paryavaran Vahini has been launchedduring 1992-
93. There is one ParyavaranVahini for each district and each Vahini has 20 members. 184 districts in the
countryhave beenselected and norms will be covered."

                                                5


         Part F: StrengthenEnvironmental Management Capacity in Gujarat
         (US$7.33M)

         Guiarat State Environmental Action Plan (SEAP) (US$6.28M)           - GEC - to develop
         a comprehensive diagnosis o f Gujarat's environmental problems and elaborate a
         planto address them.

         NGO Environmental Action Fund(US$1.05M) GEC to support activist NGOs
                                                           -       -
         inGujarat and strengthentheir role as environmental watchdogs.

8.       Ingeneral terms, the projectwas not adequately preparedandthere were
significant quality-at-entry shortcomings. It was prepared very quickly to take advantage
o f available IDA funds which otherwise could have been lost. At first, it was linkedto a
highly ambitious butunrealistic EnvironmentalAction Plan. At the outset, the project had
an important champion inthe Minister o f Environment and Forests. However, he left his
post shortly after implementation began, leaving several components without strong
support. Inaddition, several implementing agencies do not appear to have beenfully
committed to the project's objectives and methods. The primary evidence for this
conclusion i s that: (i) components were dropped shortly after implementation
                       several
began; (ii) important implementation details were not agreed upon during preparation,
particularly regarding procurement; (iii)   there was little or no political support for many
o f the measures taken under the project; and (iv) many o f the project's components were
designed by the Central Government with little participation from states and districts.

9.       A major designissue confrontedby the project was the broadrange o ftopical
areas it attempted to address without a clear unifying theme other than "environmental
management" broadly understood. Inshort, the structure o f the project was blurredby the
aggregation o f components which had no clear linkage to one another. The environmental
education and media training components, for example, were added at the MTR under the
rubric o f "Decentralization o f Environmental Management," but the logic behind this i s
unclear. Once the first Minister left, moreover, there appears to have been no strong
advocate within the central managing institution (MOEF) who could have imposed
greater coherence on the project.

10.      The result was a collection o f relatively disconnected initiatives relating to a wide
spectrum o f environmental issues and institutions. Most o f these, moreover, were neither
new nor path-breaking. The level o f commitment to different parts o fthe project appears
to have varied widely, as reflected inthe fact that several components were dropped
shortly after implementation beganwhile others lagged. Finally, the project was not
structured to identify or stimulate demand by the public ingeneral or by specific
constituencies to improve environmental management. These features all seem to reflect
the haste inits preparation and a lack of goal-setting prior to appraisal. While the 1993
EAPreportedly provided a framework for the project, it was posed interms o fvery broad
environmental outcomes that are difficult to attain and cannot be easily measured. The
Bank at first accepted the priorities attributed to the diverse project components
seemingly without question. It also appears bothto have overestimated the client's
capacity to implementthe project and its own ability to supervise such a complex
operation ina strategic fashion.

                                               6


11.     Among the mainimplementationissues mentionedby various officials
interviewedby IEG, inturn, were the Bank's emphasis on meeting strict timetables and
rigidobservation o fprocurement rules which, inthe opinion of some participants, caused
difficulties. There were numerous complaints about Bank procurement guidelines and its
insistence on use o f foreign consultants for various studies. The intentionwas evidently
to assure that international expertise be brought to bear on certain problems. However,
according to several Borrower representatives, this caused long delays and unnecessarily
increased the cost of consultant services since, inmany cases, highly qualified specialists
could have been engaged inside the country at much lower cost. Some administrators also
indicatedthat the quality o f the consulting services obtained was not consistent. It i s
difficult to assess whether rigid adherence to procurement rules and Bank insistence on
opening competitionto international consultants were fully justified as Borrower
complaints may have been largely motivated by the perceived complexity o f international
tenders, nationalistic feelings, andresentment that Bank rules limit direct contracting.

12.      Bank staffapparently intendedthe requirement to source consulting services
outside the country to ensure that new ideas would be introduced. This issue was such a
significant source o f friction anddelay, however, that several interviewees suggested that
it was the singlemost importantfactor inunderperformance ofthe project. Itappears that
Bankbecame more flexible inthis regardas the projectprogressed, andone supervision
report contains the frank statement that the Bank "greatly overestimated" the demand for
and costs o f foreign consultants. Hadthis beenrecognized earlier, some o fthe associated
difficulties might have been avoided without necessarily sacrificing quality. The Bank
madeuse o f expert consultants to review plans and designs, but this led to additional
delays while consultants reviewed documents and prepared reports. Procurement
guidelines should have been discussed indetail with the actual implementing agencies
duringproject preparation, which does not appear to have been the case.

13.     Inadditionto these general considerations regardingprojectdesignand
implementation, the following paragraphs provide a brief assessment o f each project
component.

Part A: EnvironmentalPolicyPlanning

14.     Environmental Research. Under this component new procedures were designed to
set priorities and invite and evaluate researchproposals. The component was managed by
MOEF, one o fthe major grantingagencies for environmentalresearch inIndia. Even
though the impact o f this component has not been formally or systematically evaluated,
those interviewed by IEGindicated that it contributed to better management o f
environmental research sponsored by MOEF.

15.     Environmental Information System. ENVIS nodes are typically research
institutions specializing ina particular field, such as forest ecology. Duringthe project
period, steady progress was made inbuildingthis system. Some 25 existing ENVIS
nodes were strengthened through acquisition o f hardware and software, as was collection
and storage o f environmental data, including data on environmental clearances (licenses)
issued.The project also supported creation of 85 newnodes and developed a state level
information database with a GIS interface. Training programs andworkshops were held

                                              7


with project support. This system represents a source ofkey information bothwith
respect to environmental quality and, through time series data, to determine whether it i s
improving or deterioratingover time. However, ENVIS data centers were reported to
have been underutilized because some o f the data itself was considered unreliable. After
the project closed, a scoping exercise was undertaken to ensure that the datasets would be
more useful to stakeholders. Stricter criteria for data inclusionwere developed and
responsibility for data provision has been delegated to the states. Both background data
and data from post-clearance monitoring have beenadded.

16.     Environmental Economics. This component ultimately involved not only the
Madras School o f Economics (as initially intended) but also Delhi University's Institute
o f Economic Growth, the Indira Gandhi Institute o f Development Research inMurnbai,
andthe Indian Statistical Institute.Among other benefits,this expansion o fthe
participating agencies allowed for sharing o f ideas and information across institutional
lines. Under this component, significant progress was made inconsolidating and
developing economic research on environmental issues inIndia. A large number o f
masters and doctoral theses and studies were financed on a broad range o f topics in
different partso f the country, many o fwhich were subsequently published. These studies
explored many policy-relevant aspects o f environment and provide valuable guidance to
policy formation. Duringthe project period and afterward, environmental economics
became a standard discipline inmany Indian Universities and research institutes and
many Indian scholars have begunto specialize inthis field. This may be one o f the
project's most enduring and positive contributions, although its impact will be primarily
felt over the long-term.

17.     Environmental Indicators, This component was designed to develop consistent
indicators that could be directly measured. It was dropped under the 2000 Amendment to
the Credit Agreement at the Government's request. The explanation given informally to
IEGduringthe field mission was that implementation ofthis component mighthave lead
to adverse publicity about MOEF's efforts to reduce pollution. At that time, problems
such as air pollution inIndia's major cities appeared to be intractable. The Bank
apparently acquiesced inthe decision to drop the component even though it could
arguably have made an important contribution had it been implemented and the resulting
informationproperly disseminated.

18.     Environmental Standards. While some results were achieved under this
component, the consensus among those interviewed by IEGwas that it didnot move the
issue forward significantly. Various studies to develop appropriate standards were
undertaken. New standards were developed for the pesticide and organic chemical
industries, for example, andtechnical work was carried out to establish standards for oil
refineries and petrochemical plant emissions, The component also supportedtraining,
both in India and abroad, for MOEF, CPCB, and State Pollution Control Board (SPCB)
officials. Some equipment and infrastructurewas also financed. However, the proposed
new standards were not adopted by CPCB or the SPCBs duringthe project period. The
standards inplace inIndia at the time o fthe IEG mission are mainly end-of-pipe type
effluent or emissions standards (see Annex C for an example). There still seems to be
relatively little emphasis on ambient standards or regulations that would lend themselves

                                                      8


to a different type o f enforcement. However, this component reportedly moved ahead
after the project closed and new standards may be adopted inthree sectors.

19.      Environmental Impact Assessment. The work on environmental clearances
(licensing) was begunafter the MTR and continued after the project closed. A full
proposal for clearance reform procedures was prepared duringthe second half o f 2004.
This generated a gooddeal o f controversy and was still under discussion at the time of
the IEGmission. There i s a strong demand to reform EIA guidelines both from industry
andNGOs. However, the preliminary versions o fthe streamlined guidelines produced
underthe project encountered resistance amongenvironmental NGOs, industry,andthe
sectoral ministries o f government. Industrywantedgreater flexibility and faster response,
while environmentalNGOs and some politicians wanted stricter regulationsand better
post-clearance compliance monitoring and enforcement. Some states demanded that
environmental clearances be handed over to state governments, but this was resisted by
some NGOs.

20.       The basic dilemma posed by stricter environmental regulationunder a command-
and-control model could possibly be resolvedby new approaches to regulation, butthere
i s resistance to such approaches, primarily from within the environmental community.
After considerable discussion, draft regulations for public comment were posted in
September 2006.6 The proposed regulations would require federal government clearance
only for Category A type projects inthe Bank's terminology (ie., those with significant
potential environmental impact) while the states would be responsible for clearing
Category B type projects (those with lower potential impact). Critics contend, however,
that many states still lack the capacity to review even low-impact projects and that the
proposed regulations reduce the scope for post-clearance monitoring andpublic
consultation. Untilnew regulations are adopted, the 1994 provisions concerning
environmental clearances remain ineffect.' Discussion o f the proposed revisionto the
environmental clearance law has been vigorous. According to Bank management, the
EIA rules have now been notified by the MOEF andthe concept of EIA decentralization
i s under implementation although rather slowly. The Bank cannot be held responsible for
the lack o fagreement, butit appears that the Bankteam could have beenmore proactive
infacilitating public participationinthe debate to help reachinga consensus.

Part B: StrengtheningEnvironmentalAdministration

21.       EstablishMOEF Regional offices. The purpose o f this component was to open
additional MOEF offices invarious states inorder to deconcentrate its administration.
This was expected to provide a stronger central government presence inthe states and a
source o f technical assistanceto state environmental agencies. It was strongly supported
by the Secretary o f Environment who was inoffice when the project was prepared.



6. Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part-11, and Section3, Sub-section(ii)
                                                                         Ministry of Environment and
Forests. New Delhi, Sept. 14,2006.
7. For a good summary of the differences betweenthe 1994 Environmental ClearancesNotification and the
2006 notification see http://www,cseindia.org/programme/industry/eia/existing_notification.htmproduced
by the Centre for Science and Environment.

                                               9


However, he left office soon after the project became effective and, as a result, the
component was dropped in2000. The Bank acquiesced inthis decision when it became
apparent that it would not be implemented, even though strengthening decentralizationo f
environmental management was one o f the stated objectives o f the project.

22.      Proiect Management Units.The portion o f the Credit allocated to project
management was about $2.37 million, about four percent o f the total costs, which i s a
relatively modest amount for this activity. These resources supported the project cells or
management units for various components. But they also illustrate the extent to which the
project was compartmentalized among a number o f agencies, each with its own policies
and procedures.

Part C: Decentralizationof EnvironmentalManagement

23,      National Environmental Awareness Campaign. The proposed campaign was
dropped early inthe project implementation period when MOEF decided not to go
forward with it.

24.      Paryavaran Vahini (Environmental Brigades). The basic idea underlying this
component was that active governmental environmental enforcement and control
depended on a popular constituency ready to detect and report environmental problems as
they occur. This component would have strengthened existing Paryavaran Vahini
organizations and extendedthemto additional areas. However, likethe National
Environmental Awareness campaign, it was droppedprimarily because its only strong
supporter inthe Government was the Secretary o f Environment who left office shortly
after the project became effective.

25.      Environmental Education. This component was added following the MTR. It was
designed to introduce environmental issues into school curricula at the state level through
teacher preparation and the development o f educational resource and curricular materials.
It included a content analysis of existingtextbooks inregionallanguages. Environmental
issues were mainstreamed by the introduction o f these materials to the curricula o f some
100 schools in 15 states. Some 1600teachers were trained and some schools were
equipped with internet and software. N o systematic evaluation or follow up was
conducted on this component, however, so its impact i s unknown.

26.      NGO EnvironmentalAction Fund. This small grants component was initially
designed to be applied in several states, but, infact, was only implemented on a pilot
basis inGujarat. The funds were made available to a number o fNGOs active on issues
such as water and air quality. Some 48 NGO initiatives (both studies and action projects)
were supported under the fund. These projects were mainly one-off exercises which
appear to have had little long-term impact inmobilizing or focusing public concern or
involvement inenvironmental issues. The beneficiary NGOs did not use the funds to
leverage other resources and, as a result, initiatives begunwith project support were not
maintained after funding ceased. Some o f the NGOs that received support are still active,
however. A participatory workshop was held to evaluate this activity, but a separate study
o f the impact and efficacy o fthe NGO Action Fundi s needed to make a final assessment.

                                                      10


Part D: Implementation of Environmental Law

27.      Since the 1980s, some advances inenvironmental protection inIndiahave been
achieved through public interest litigation brought against state and central government
agencies to require them to enforce environmental legislation.' Duringproject
preparation, there was considerable discussion among different agencies inIndiaand
between the Bank andthe NationalLaw School about the need to send specialists abroad
since India's capacity inlaw i s highand some experts considered the country's capacity
inenvironmentallaw second to none. The component succeededinadvancingthe
development o f environmental law as part o f the curriculum o f India's law schools and
helpedto develop syllabi for environmental law courses. It also provided resources for
networking law schools across Indiaaround this topic and for training and participation
inworkshops inIndiaandabroad. Other accomplishments includedpublicationofan
Environmental Law Handbook and six modules inEnvironmental Law. Towards the end
o fthe project a significant amount o f unused funds from this component was reallocated
for acquisition o f computer and other equipment for the National Law School. However,
only some o f the goods procured were considered to be eligible expenditures. Although
the title ofthis component specifically refers to "implementation" ofenvironmental law,
the project does not appear to have contributed significantly to the advancement o f
environmentaljurisprudence inIndiabut rather more to the codification and
dissemination o f existing practice.

Part E:Monitoringand Compliance inHigh-Priority EnvironmentalProblemAreas

28.      Strengthening Administration and Development o f Environmental Regulations in
the MiningSector. This component involved a reviewofpolices, standards, resettlement,
andEIA inthe miningsector. Its outputs includedproductionandpublicationo ftechnical
manuals for environmental management o f mines as well as institutional strengthening,
training, study tours abroad, and some pilot subprojects. A nationalminingdatabasewas
set up under the component, but it is not clear ifthis database i s inuse or widely
available. Stakeholder comments were inconsistent: some attributed moderate success to
the demonstration subprojects, while others affirmed that the component failed to meet its
primaryobjectives. Inany case, implementationlagged due to lack of commitment from
the miningregulators and inthe sector itself. The Borrower consideredthe demonstration
projects to have been the most valuable activity supported under the component, but
indicatedthat the Bank created too many obstacles, mainly because of its procurement
rules. N o evaluation was undertaken to determine the extent to which lessons learned
from the demonstration subprojects were disseminated or adopted inother mining
operations. Nor does it appear that new policies or regulations were formulated, although
the IEGmissionwas informedthat new miningregulations reflecting some o fthe
experience under this component was slowly working its way through the approval
process.




8. The public interest legal case that eventually forced the closing of nearly 300 factoriesthat burned
sulfur-containing fuels aroundAgra and the Taj Mahal was first brought in 1984.

                                                11


29.      StrengtheningCapacity for IndustrySiting - Zoning Atlas. This activity took up
where a project previously sponsored by GTZ had left off. Its goal was to develop criteria
and specific recommendations for the siting (location) o f industrial facilities, waste
treatment, and toxic waste disposal facilities based on the sensitivity o f the environment,
existingpollution loads, etc. According to CPCB, "the Zoning Atlas for siting o f
industrieszones and classifies the environment ina District and presents the pollution
receivingpotential o f various sitedzones inthe District and the possible alternate sites for
industries, through easy-to-read maps. The industrial zones are identified based on the
sensitivity andpollution receivingpotential (carrying capacity) o fthe District. The
risks/impacts due to industrial pollution can be minimized ifthe siting o f industries i s
done based on the Zoning Atlas." Progress was made inproducing the Zoning Atlas, but,
due to the dynamic nature o f industry, the atlas may have become obsolete shortly after it
was issued. No evaluation was carried out to determine the extent to which the public or
private sector actually have usedthe Atlas for locating industrial sites or the extent to
which MOEF or state environmental agencies use it ingranting clearances. The Atlas
does not appear to be available online even though some states advertise its use as a tool
for industrial development. Thus, it i s not evident whether this potentially useful tool is
being utilized for its intendedpurpose.

30.      StrengtheningAmbient Air PollutionMonitoring. This component supported the
designo fnetworks and acquisition of air quality monitoring (AQM)equipment for
sixteen major urbanareas. The development o f adequate monitoring networks andthe
calibration o f equipment to allow comparability with data previously collected are
considered to be important measures for the designo f effective air pollution controls in
Indiancities.' Studies were designed to identify and inventory air pollution sources in
each major city. The next step was to have been procurement and installation o f air
quality monitoring equipment. But very long delays occurred inthe implementationo f
this component while the Borrower developed a design for the monitoring systems that
was thenreviewed by the Bank inmultiple iterations, followed by strong differences of
opinion regardingthe specifications o f the equipmentto be procured. A Bank consultant
suggestedthat the equipment desiredby the client was more sophisticated thannecessary.
Hadthe Bank given greater attentionto these matters duringpreparation, some o f these
disagreements and delays might have been avoided. As a result o f the delays, however,
the project closed before the equipment could beprocured, although it was eventually
purchased usinglocal funds. After the project closed, Hyderabad, Calcutta andNew
Delhiacquired and installed AQM equipment andequipmentwas onorder for Mumbai
and Pune at the time o fthe IEGmission. Some 15 cities have conducted or are
conducting studies on air pollution. Due inpart to a number o f public interest law suits,
there i s now a genuine commitment to strengthenA Q M inmajor Indiancities. As a
result, many cities are presentlycollecting data on parameters critical to humanhealth
such as nitrous oxide, particulates, sulfur dioxide, among others (see Box 1). Giventhe
time lapse involved, it is difficult to determine the project's direct impact on recent



9. See, for example, World Bank, For aBreathof FreshAir: Ten Years of ProgressandChallenges in
UrbanAir Management inIndia: 1993-2002, New Delhi, 2005 and Centre for Science and Environment
(CSE), The LeapfrogFactor:Clearingthe Air inAsian Cities,New Delhi2006, which focuses specifically
on the transport sector.

                                                 12


improvements inthis regard, butthe genuine commitment of several cities to continue air
quality monitoring, includingthose whichbenefitedfrom project assistance for the
purchaseof AQM equipmentunder this component, is worthy of note.

Box 1. Air PollutionManagementin Indian Cities
Over the period of about ten years, the governments of India and several Indian States have made
concerted efforts to reduce the source of pollution in India's major cities such as Delhi, Mumbai,
Kolkota, Chennai, and Hyderabad. Measures include the mandatory adoption of low-sulfur fuels,
mandatory adoption of less polluting oil additives for two-cycle engines, relocation of industries,
and outright closing of some heavy polluters. The burningof diesel fuel in urban buses, gasoline
in two-cycle engines in auto-rickshaws and kerosene as a cooking fuel, spewed massive
emissions of particulates, nitrous oxide, sulfur dioxide and other pollutants into the air,
contributing to poor air quality in many cities. There were other sources of pollution including
fossil fuel use in industry, the use of kerosene for cooking, and the widespread and largely
uncontrolleduse of toxic solvents and other contaminants in industriesboth large and small.
However, focusing on the key mobile sources of air pollution may have been a strategically wise
choice for several reasons. First, the contribution to air pollution by diesel and two-cycle gasoline
engines was fairly well known by the scientific cadre and readily understood by the general
public. Second, changes in pollution levels could be measured readily and related to specific
measures. Third, the operators in the transport sector were easy to identify and mandatory
compliance was perhaps more easily accomplished than it would have been in other sectors.
Finally the public was widely aware both of the health impacts of air pollution and could readily
perceive the benefit of conversion to CNG as a fuel. In 1996, Indian cricket fans were upset when
an Australian team blamed its loss on the heavy pollution in New Delhi. In fact, the major
impetus for CNG adoption came not from the environmental protectionbranch of government but
rather from court action introduced by public interest lawsuits.




31.      Coastaland MarineArea Management.This component was intendedto develop
GIS systems for coastal andmarine area management(CMAM) and to model integrated
CMAM plans.It was also intendedto produce environmental impact assessment (EIA)
guidelines for coastal zone development. GIS and remote sensingdatawere usedto
develop management plans for critical habitats such as mangroves andcoral reefs.
Studieswere conductedwith project support on marine, coastal, and estuarine ecosystems
to determine their capacity to absorb nutrientloads and other materials. A state-of-the art
training facility for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) was built with project
support at the Integrated Coastal and MarineArea ManagementProject Directorate of the
Department of OceanDevelopment (ICMAM) inChennai. Workshops and training
events were heldand ICZMwas integratedwith EIA practices ina manual produced with
project support. While much of the work may have beensupply driven at the outset,
ICMAMwas able to produce a detailed report on the December2004 Tsunami disaster."
Itappears that the capacity to producethis report was significantly enhancedby the
project's contributions.


10. PreliminaryAssessment o f Impact of Tsunami in Selected CoastalAreas of India. Departmentof
OceanDevelopment IntegratedCoastaland Marine Area ManagementProjectDirectorate, Chennai, June
2005.

                                                    13


Part F: StrengtheningEnvironmentalCapacityin Gujarat

32.      Among the components ofthe EMCB project that soughtto support the
strengtheningof decentralizedenvironmental managementwere the efforts undertakenin
Gujarat, which was visited by the PPARmission for this reason. The choice of Gujarat
for this pilot was appropriate as it was -and i s -- one of India's fastest growing states,
particularlydue to the rapidexpansionof industryand its importance as the largest
domestic producer of natural gas. Project actions inGujarat were intendedto serve as a
model for other Indianstates facing similar environmental challenges. Giventhe
importance ofthis part of the project, its components are assessed insome detail. As with
other partsof the project, moreover, boththe importance of politicalleadership andthe
volatility of project performance when changes insuch leadershipoccur are illustrated by
the experienceinGujarat.

33.      CleanProduction Plan. Curbing industrial pollution was one of the seven major
declaredpriorities on the NEAP inIndia. Gujarat, which is one ofthe most industrialized
states inthe country, has some 200 Industrial Estates.The concept of such estates, which
i s fairly well developed in India, aims at concentrating industry inareas where production
chains canbe developed, industrieswithin aparticular sector can be grouped, and
industrialeffluents can be bettermanaged, insome casesthrough Common Effluent
Treatment Plants (CETPs), thus avoiding or reducing damage to residential, farming, and
other settlements. Duringproject implementation, the Gujarat State Ministry of
Environment and Forests(GSMOEF) launched a clean production (CP) system campaign
withproject support designedto encourage industries to adopt CP methods. The benefits
of CP accrued both to the individual firms inthe form of savings inmaterials, water, and
energy, and to the community at large inthe form of reducedemissions.

34.      This component supportedvarious demonstrationprojects (see Box 2) and other
activities, includingthe upgrading of information systems, monitoring and compliance,
standard setting, and improved regulation inpriority areas. Changesinstate government
administration, however, resultedinloss of interest and enthusiasm and, inthe end, the
component's impact was limited.The CP activity was the central focus of the Gujarat
SPCB, which emphasizedidentifying industries indifferent sectors amenableto and
interested indeveloping cleanproduction methods. A number of clean production clinics
were held.More substantialinvestmentswere made underthe parallel Industrial Pollution
Control Project (IPCP) with World Bank support. IPCP also supportedCETPs inGujarat
that were privately financed and organized. However, to date, CETPs are not licensed or
regulated and there are no clear accountabilities since they accept effluents from multiple
customers, making it difficult to assess responsibility.l1



11. The experience with Bank-supportedCEPTs inGujarat and elsewhere in India is discussed in further
detail inthe PPAR for the Industrial Pollution Control and Industrial Pollution Prevention Projects (World
Bank ReportNo. 38472, January 25,2007) and more generally inan evaluation undertakenby the Central
Pollution Control Board entitled Performance Status of Common Effluent Treatment Plants inIndia (Delhi,
2006). The latter report concludedthat despitedesignimprovementsinthe treatmentplants introduced
underthe Industrial Pollution PreventionProject, on the whole, performanceofthese facilities was "very
unsatisfactory" due to poor operationand maintenance.

                                                     14


Box 2. Clean ProductionActivities Supported by EMCBProjectin Gujarat                                      1
Nine demonstration projects in stone crushingmills received support under the EMCP Project in
Gujarat. These were intended to be demonstration projects, the results of which would be
disseminated by sectoral associations. Unfortunately,however, while hundreds of such projects
were launched, data were not collectedon their possible demonstration effects. The administrator
of the program, which is ongoing, informed IEG that the greatest problem encountered was
unwillingness of participantsto share techniques they had adopted with other firms in the same
sector. Even though the program produced measurable results in specific companies, it did not
become firmly institutionalized and supportingpolicies that could have helped move it forward
were not adopted. On the positive side, the Gujarat State Department of Environmentand Forests
has continued to allocate budget to the program and has given awards to firms that have achieved
the greatest economies and emissions abatement. The program also trained some NGOs in
applyingCP techniques.



35.       Guiarat State Environmental Action Plan (SEAPI The SEAP (which is ongoing)
was implementedby the Gujarat Ecology Commission (GEC) founded in 1992by
Hasmukh Shah, a member of the elite IndianAdministrative Service (IAS). Mr.Shahis a
leading figure inboththe public and private sectors on energy matters and former
Chairmanof IndianPetrochemicals Corporation, who had a vision that growth inGujarat
could take place ina controlled and sustainable fashion. GEC was createdby the
Government of Gujarat under the slogan, "Work withNature, Not against It," with a
broad and ambitious mandate.l2Its first goal involvedrestoration of degradedlands and
creation of an irrigated greenbelt. Under Shah, GEC took on the role of preparing a State
Environmental Action Plan (SEAP).This exercise, financed by EMBC, sought to take
stock of environmental conditions inGujarat considering that boththe state's natural
resources and its man-madeenvironment were being rapidly transformed by the
expansionof industryand irrigated agriculture. The Gujarat SEAP was intendedto set a
high standardand create an example of an Action Planthat would translate into localized
efforts to correct environmental problems (see Box 3). Earlier attempts at national and
state environmental action plans hadbeenwidely criticizedas inadequate.

36.       Ultimately, the SEAP was not releasedto the public. Some ofthose with whom
IEGspoke about the Plan suggestedthat itspublication was blocked becauseit called for
more vigorous action by the state government to curb industrial pollution and mangrove
and dry landforest destruction and contained other calls for action at a time when the
state was aggressively pursuing industrial growth and agricultural expansion. At this
point, moreover, GEC's most prestigious member, Mr.Hasmukh Shah, had left the



12. GEC's mandate was: "(a) to provide an organizationthat plans andworks for restoration o f
ecologically degraded areas; (b) to arouse ecological consciousness amongthe peopleo f Gujarat andto
develop a conservationethos inthe state; (c) to undertake on its own or withthe supportofother agencies,
restorationofdisturbedeco-systems ofthe state, withspecial emphasis on degraded lands; (d)to create
institutions and organizationsnecessary for achievingthe objectives of CEC; and (e) to act as the state's
single umbrella for accreditation of various NGOs eligible for findingfor activities aimed at ecological
restoration o f degraded eco-systems,and allocation of finds to various non-governmentagencies for
ecological restorationprograms."

                                                     15


organization and no one on the Board of Directors had sufficient political influence to
pushfor publication. The environmental database preparedwith EMCBproject support
was originally made available via internet but is not now accessible ~nline.'~



Box 3. The Gujarat State EnvironmentalActionPlan
The Gujarat SEAP was conducted by a hand-pickedteam of dedicatedenvironmentalistswith the
assistanceof specialized consultants and considerable stakeholder consultation.Two issues were
declared off limits for the SEAP, however, namely nuclear power andthe Sardar Sarovar Damon
the NarmadaRiver.I4The SEAP lookedcloselyat the causalfactors behindenvironmental
problems. For example, it assessedgrowinggroundwater scarcity in parts ofthe state where water
was beingextracted from depths of up to 1200feet. It concludedthat the policy of providingfree
electricityto pumpingstations was the key problembecause it artificially loweredthe cost of
groundwater. The work went on for two and a halfyears at which point a draft SEAP was
presentedto a wide spectrum of government agencies. However, a highly growthoriented, pro-
businessstate government hadtaken office just as the first draft ofthe SEAP was circulatedfor
review.
Although some public policieswere identifiedas contributingto environmentalproblems, most
of the agenciesparticipatinginthe review (urban, industrial, water, planning,and financial
agencies) hadfavorableresponsesto the draft SEAP becausethey saw it as growth-enhancing.
There was strongnegative response, however, from the State Environmentand Forestry
Departmentandthe SPCB, primarily on the grounds that it was basedon outdated information.



37.      Despite the failure to disseminate the SEAP, some of its key recommendations
were accepted. For example, its recommendation for the northernpart of the state was to
refocus water capture on surface water and to stop pumpingwater from ground wells
using subsidized electric power. The state also beganto charge standardenergy tariffs to
pumpingstations. Other recommendationsincluded leasing salinized wastelands to
corporations for tree plantations for pulpproduction basedon a bidding processthat
awardedrights to the companiesthat offered the greatest number of amenities to the
population. GEC also recommendedthat the government lease landon which slums were
located to their occupantsunder long-term leases. This measureworked to encourage
investment by slum dwellersintheir neighborhoods, but the government did not scale up
the experiment becauseofthe political sensitivityregardingthe leasingofpublic land.

38.      Guiarat Ecology Commission. At the time of the PPARmission, GEC appearedto
have lost a great deal of ground. Its Chairman and small staff nevertheless nurturedhope
that the state would allow publication ofthe SEAP after the chapters were updated.
However, much of the interest and momentum for the plan appear to have beenlost,
especially inlight of the highly growth-oriented state government that took office in



13, http:llwww.gec.gov.d
14. The Sarovar Sardar dam on the NarmadaRiver was financedby the Bank under a loan approvedin
1985but, after years of intense internationalcriticism and local conflict, the Indian governmentrequested
in 1993thatthe Bankwithdraw from the project.

                                                    16


October 2001. GEC itself suffered as an appendage to the state governmenthighly
dependenton scarce state funding and soft money to carry out its projects. However, it is
still involved inmangroverestoration along the coast, amangrove valuation study, and
the maintenance ofanonline database on Gujarat environment.

39.      Insummary, GEC andthe SEAP were well-motivated initiatives, with good
staffing and competent management. During the late 1990s, there was considerable
publicity and agitation about pollution and industrial accidents inGujarat, but GEC
avoided becoming involvedinsensationalismand did not seek headlines, partly because
suchnegativepublicity could alienate the agenciesthat it sought to work with. GEC built
ties and relied on data and expertise from a wide range of state andnational agencies and
NGOs. This proved to be botha strengthand a weakness. Although GEC cooperated
heavily with other agencies, much of the data on which it reliedwas apparently
inaccurateor out of date as GEC didnot have the capacity to generate primary data. And
when it came to publication of its report, some of the same agenciesthat hadprovided
data opposed its releaseon the grounds that the data were inaccurateand/or outdated.

40.     Inaddition, GEC was somewhatmarginal to the establishedagenciesinthe state.
It was located inBaroda at some distance from the capital, Gandhi-Nagar. Itwas also too
reliant on a single prestigious leader. After he left, GEC lacked institutional influence and
sustainability. Onthe other hand, its autonomy gave it a degree of freedom that it might
not have had ifit beenmore closely linkedwith line agencies. This dilemmareproduces
the situation of many project implementation units. It also goes to the heart of the EMBC
project's goal which was institutional strengthening. The lessonto be drawn is that the
interest of a single champion ina project i s usually not sufficient to sustain a project and
its outputs over the longer term. Unless an influentialconstituency supports the work of
an independentagency, even the best quality work may be ignored or underutilized
because it lacks strong traction among decision makers.

3. Plannedvs. Actual Costs and Financing

41.     According to the ICR (as stated intwo different annex tables), actual project
expendituresreachedonly $27.45 million, orjust 45 percent of the appraisal estimate.
However, there is a discrepancy among the ICR annex tables inthis regard. A thirdtable
inthe same Annex ("Project Financing by Component") indicatesthat actualproject costs
totaled US$ 30.85 million and shows discrepancies with the figures presentedinthe table
entitled"Project Costs and Financing" for 7 of the 12 items listed, most significantly for
the industrial siting/zoning atlaswhere one table indicates an actual cost of US$ 6.27
million andthe other (cited below) US$ 3.27 million.''

42.     Most componentsunderspent their appraisal targets by more than half (see the
table below). Only one component, for the Environmental Information System (ENVIS),



15. The other components for which discrepanciesexist were environmentalresearch, environmental
economics, environmental standards, project implementation cells, environmental law, and the mining
sector. However, for the most part, inthe aggregate, these offset one another.

                                                     17


exceeded its appraisal estimate. The reasons for low disbursementwere various. A
significant downsizing of the project was proposed at the time o f the Mid-termReview
(MTR) and a large share ofthe Credit (roughly US$21 million) was reallocated as part of
the Bank's emergency response to a major earthquake inGujarat in2000.'6Priorities also
shiftedas new office holders brought different perspectives andpriorities inrelation to
the environment and institutional development needs, andperhaps the political
implications o f some of the measures initially proposed were more carefully scrutinized.

Table 1.Appraisal Cost Estimatesvs. ActualCosts
          COMPONENT                     Appraisal      Actual           % of
                                        Estimate        Costs        Appraisal
                                         (US$ M)       (US$ M)        Estimate
      EnvironmentalResearch                 2.94         $0.4           15.0%
 EnvironmentalInformationENVlS              1.46         $1.7          114.4%
     EnvironmentalEconomics                 6.8          $4.5          66.6%
      EnvironmentalStandards                 1.5         $0.7          49.3%
      Air Quality Management                3.08         $1.3          42.2%
 IntegratedCoastal & Marine Mgmt            3.9          $2.3           59.2%
     PIU (MOEF, DOD, GDFE)                  2.37         $0.6           26.2%
 National EnvironmentalAwareness            2.03         $0.0           0.0%
             Campaign
          ParyavaranVahini                  0.98         $0.0           0.0%
     EnvironmentalAction Fund               2.4          $1.o          40.4%
         EnvironmentalLaw                   4.15         $1.7          41.7%
           Mining Sector                    6.31         $3.6           56.4%
            Zoning Atlas                    8.44         $3.3           38.7%
         Other Components                   15.2         $6.3           41.5%
              TOTAL                        61.56         27.45         44.6%
Source: ICR.

43.      Therewere also significant difficulties and delays inthe procurement o f certain
goods and services. The Borrower perceived the Bank as having created obstacles to
smoother implementation. From the Bank's perspective, however, the Borrower did not
always opt for the most appropriate goods and services. There were protracted
discussions and disagreements over the best equipment to acquire for air quality
monitoring and whether local or international specialists were the most appropriate
providers o f consulting services. While both the Bank and the Borrower ultimately
displayed flexibility on these issues, precious time was lost and there was some friction.
Inaddition, several implementing agencies hadinsufficient capacity to productivelyuse




16. The ICRstates the following inthis regard: "Based on the MTR recommendations,the projectwas
restructuredinNovember2000. The reviewhadrecommendeda 26% reduction(fiom $61 millionto $45
million) inthe overall projectsize. While this was under discussion, a serious earthquake occurred in
Gujarat and an amount of approximately SDR 16.2 million(roughly $21 million equivalent at the
prevailingexchange rate) was transferredby IDA from EMCBPto the reconstruction efforts inGujarat.
The netresults...were  that the funds available under EMCBPwere reducedto SDR 18.47 million (about $
25 million) andthe size ofthe TA projectwas reducedto about $ 33 million, or about 55% ofthe original
estimate.

                                                    18


the volume ofresourcesforeseenat appraisal,reflectingpoor quality at entry more
generally.

44.      The ICR annex which records ahigher total project cost amount also suggests that
actual IDA financing for the project totaled US$22.08 million and Government
counterpart resourceswere US$ 8.77 million equivalent. This compares with estimated
IDA financing ofUS$49.06 millionand estimatedGovernment counterpart funding of
US$ 12.5 million, summing to US$ 61.56 million, at the time of appraisal. However,
there is no similar breakdown of IDA versus Government funding at project closing in
the ICRfor the US$27.45 milliontotal reproducedinthe table above, so it is not clear
how muchof the IDA Credit that was eventually disbursedwas actually usedto help
finance this operation and how muchwent to support earthquakerecovery inGujarat.

45.      Inshort, withrespectto project financing the picture is unclear, as the
disbursementand cancellation figures available inthe Bank's financial database for this
Credit do not distinguish betweenthat part of the funding which actually went to the
EMCB Project andthe part that went to the Gujarat emergency earthquake recovery
efforts. What is known for sure is the following: of the original SDR 34,700,000
approvedfor this project (representingapproximately US$ 50 million at the time it was
approved, according to the ICR), SDR 735,000 were cancelledinJanuary 2002 and
another SDR 2,865,610 were cancelledinMarch 2005." As a result, the final Credit
amount net of cancellations was just under SDR 31,100,000 (or US$47,278,700
equivalent at the current exchange rate) at the time of Credit closing, which occurred
roughly nine months after the EMCB Project itself closed (March 2005 versus June
2004). Cumulative disbursementsindollar terms at the time of Credit closing were US$
40,446,830 net of cancellations (Le. the dollar equivalent to roughly SDR 31,100,000 at
the current exchangerate). However, onthe basis ofthe available data, it is not possible
to determine precisely how muchof this cumulative total was used for the EMCB Project
andhow muchwas for the earthquakerecovery efforts.18

4. Monitoring and Evaluation

46.      The project does not appear to have had a specific monitoringdesign. Its various
partsandcomponentswere largely isolated from one another. There does not appear to
have beenany systematic effort to compare progress of one component to another, or of
coordinating different agencieswith others. The project appraisal documentlgdoes not



17. These amounts were equivalent to roughly US$ 943,835 and US$4,367,735 equivalent at the exchange
rates prevailing at these respectivedates.
18. Beyondthis, the ICR for the EMCB Project does not discuss any aspects of the actual use (and
performance)ofthat part of the original IDA Credit (approximately SDR 16.2 millionout ofthe original
SDR 34.7 million) that was reallocated for the Gujarat emergency response in2000, so it is also not
coveredinthe present PPAR.
19.A Memorandumand Recommendationof The Presidentofthe International Development Association
to the Executive Directors on a ProposedCredit of SDR 34.7 million to India for an Environmental
Management Capacity Building Project.

                                               19


include a log frame and the Project Development Objective i s stated simply as assisting
MOEF to implement the Government's EnvironmentalAction Planalthough it did not
specifically define expected outcomes inrelation to any o f EAP's stated priority areas.
There was no monitoring strategy outlined inthe appraisal document althoughthere i s a
list o f indicators inthe appendix. This list, however, mixes inputs and outputs and does
not clarify how andby whom these indicators would be monitored. The major monitoring
effort appears to have been o f that o f the Bank through its periodic supervision missions.

47.       Inshort, neitherthe project as awhole nor the individual components were
adequately monitored and evaluated by the Borrower. There were no provisions for
independent monitoring o f the project. A number o f the problems identified inthis
assessment could have beendetected and perhaps beencorrected had there been a more
systematic effort to collect and analyze informationregarding project implementation. As
a result, M& E design, implementation, and utilization for the project are all rated
negligible.

5. Outputs and Outcomesby Objective

48.       Project complexity and the range o f institutions and issues it dealt with make it
difficult to summarize overall performance. Ingeneral, however, the project did not
fulfill its objectives, largely becauseoflack of full ownership and adequate coordination
among agencies and levels o f government. The focus on institutional tools rather than
environmental outcomes may have been one reason for the project's lack of success.
While it may seem paradoxical that the project was responsive to needs yet lacked
ownership, the explanation appears to lie inlack o f leadership by the Environment
Ministryand its subsidiary and linkedstate-level organizations, government reluctance to
take on some o f India's most pressing environmental challenges, and failure to link the
project to public demandfor environmental protection as a source o f support. Finally, the
project was not conceived inan integrated fashion but consisted o f a disparate set o f
initiatives aimed at strengthening capacity but not directly at solving environmental
problems.

49.       The present assessmentdoes not attempt to trace the political economy of what
appears to have beena "go slow" policy by the Central Government on major
environmentalpolicy reforms duringthe 1990s and early 2000s. Such a policy may have
beenmotivatedby a desire not to stifle economic growth by excessive regulation. An
alternative explanation i s that industrial, agricultural, and other stakeholders exerted
effective pressureto slow environmental protection efforts because o f a perceptionthat
environmentalregulation would reduce their competitiveness both domestically and
internationally. Whatever the ultimate reason or reasons, the project fell short o f its goals.
Inaddition, the project failed to create incentives for key actors to critically evaluate
existingpolicies and proactively pursueneeded reforms.

50.       The objective o fthe EMCB project was to assist the IndianGovernment in
strengthening environmental management capacity in selected areas at the national, state,
and local (including community) levels. Broken down into four "subobjectives," progress
toward achievement o f each one can be briefly assessedas follows.

                                             20


Subobjective#I:Strengtheningenvironmentalpolicy planning and administration
5 1.    Project performance on this Subobjective was modest. While the project had the
explicit goal o f strengthening policy planning,the only parto fthe operation that clearly
aimed at this goal was the Environmental Economics component. The structure and
functions o f environmental protection inIndia were not the object o f any specific
component o fthe project. Studies were not undertaken to analyze and reviewpolicy
options except insofar as some o f the economic studies pointed to alternative approaches
to environmental regulation. The project did have a modest impact on environmental
administration by developing tools such as the Industrial Zoning Atlas that would assist
inthe implementation ofpolicies. Butthere was little or no analysis ofthe actua impact
o f these policies on environmental quality.

Subobjective#2: Decentralization of selected environmental activitiesto local
communities and non-governmental organizations
52.     Pro-iectperformance on this Subob.iective was also modest. This objecti .ewas
not fully achieved, inlarge part because many of the components that targeted this goal
were dropped. Decentralization, however, hastwo aspects. Onthe one handit brings
regulatory power closer to the source o fproblems. On the other, incases where powerful
interests can co-opt the regulatory process, this may result insignificant damage to public
goods (inthis instance, environmental quality), an outcome that central regulators would
not have permitted.

53.     The public interest law suits that led to court decisions to phase out two-cycle
gasoline poweredvehicles and replace them with CNG-burning auto-rickshaws and buses
inDelhiandelsewhere, for example, were brought byNGOs without any assistance. On
the other hand, GO1may have beeninfluencedby investors who feared that stronger
environmental regulation would impose highcosts and reduce growth incertain
industries.Accordingly, project support to environmental NGOs was limited to Gujarat,
while the initially proposed deconcentration of MOEF offices, which could have brought
regulationcloser to the sources o f environmental degradation, was abandoned. On the
positive side, the Environmental Information System was expanded and many new nodes
were added. While the issue o fthe validity andusability o fenvironmental data does not
appear to have beenaddressed (see below), there was a significant expansion inaccess by
the public to environmentaldata on a wide variety o fthemes.

Subobjective#3: Implementation of environmental law
54.     Project performance on this Subobjective was likewise modest. While the project
provided support for developing the academic field o f environmental law and helped
buildthe curriculum on this topic inseveral law schools acrossthe country, however, the
project did not directly support the implementationo f environmental lawper se. It is
possible that more exposure o f legal professionals to principles and tools o f
environmental law and enforcement will eventually pay dividends inthe form o f an
increased number o f citations, prosecutions, injunctions, civil suits, consent decrees, and
other legal actions that will contribute directly to improved environmental quality. But

                                                   21


there i s little evidence that these impacts are occurring inIndia" or that legal codes or
regulations have been augmented to strengthen the law as a tool for environmental
management. Greater enforcement o f environmental legislation inrecent years seems to
be largely drivenby thejudicial system inresponse to public interest law suits brought by
NGOs and reflecting increasing awareness by the public o fthe costs o f environmental
degradation, especially the health costs o f air pollution inlarge cities.

Subobjective#4: Monitoring of compliance with environmental laws and standardsin
specifichighpriority environmentalproblem areas
55.      Again, the Subobjective was only partially achieved inthat monitoring o f
compliance with laws and standards inproblem areasper se was not undertaken.
Performance was therefore also modest. The project did contribute to the collection and
systematization o f data inthe areas o f coastal zone management, mining, and air
pollution p o n g others with positive results extending beyond the project implementation
period with respect to air quality monitoring and the post-2004 Tsunami response. Insofar
as can be determined, however, these studies and compilations did not examine the issue
o f compliance with laws and standards. To have done so, would have almost certainly
uncovered cases o f non-compliance or exceeding o f standards. This would have created
the needfor stronger enforcement which, inturn, could have affected-andprobably
raised the opposition o f -- powerful interests ingovernment and the private sector. The
exception to this was the Gujarat SEAP described above. As indicated, however, it was
not allowed to move forward to an action phase due, paradoxically, to the resistance o f
the State Ministryfor Environment onthe pretextthat itwas based on outdated or
inaccurate data.

6. Ratings

56.      Based on its assessment, including the field mission to New Delhi and Gujarat,
which has permitted a review o f EMCB project accomplishments and shortcomings, IEG
has ratedproject performance on a number o f key dimensions. Inseveral cases, these
ratings, which are indicated inthe table below, are less positive than those contained in
the ICR for reasons which are set out for each o f the aspects considered inthe following
paragraphs.

57.      Relevance of Objectivesand Design. The project's objectives were highly
relevantto India's environmental system, butthe components ofthe project were not
strategically well chosen. Thus, the relevance o f project designwas only modest.There
was little coherence inthe set o f components and the project appears to have been
developed hastily without thorough analysis beforehand, notwithstandingthe fact that its
design was reportedly based on India's National Environmental Action Plan. Most of the
initial components which bore the potential o f bringingout adverse information regarding
India's environment were not implemented. The project would be equally relevant to



20. The public interest law suit brought by NGOs leadingto the decisionto phase out highly polluting
public conveyances stands as a shining exceptionto this generalization.

                                                 22


today's India, especially as environmental conflicts over landand air and water quality
are becoming more acute as economic growth accelerates.

58.     Were the project to be prepared again, however, its design should seek to result in
greater effectiveness interms o f environmental improvement. To be relevant to today's
India, a new project would need to help develop a more modern and effective structure o f
environmental protection, emphasizing true decentralization, goal setting, a variety o f
instruments,and simplified andmore transparent environmental monitoring. Perhaps
most importantly, inorder to achieve structural change it would be necessary for
government and civil society together to builda constituency around new ideas for
environmentalprotection, starting first with the "low hanging fruit" and moving on to
more difficult to solve problems. Interestingly, many o f the ideas suggested here have
been circulating in India for some time, and important additions to knowledge and
understanding did come out o f the Environmental Economics and Environmental Law
components.

59.     Efficacy.   The efficacy o f the project was modest. While some work was carried
out that could ultimately bringabout better regulation, little was done that concretely
strengthened the capacity o f the Government o f India to protect the environment more
effectively. With the exception o f some actions inGujarat, the project largely failed to
achieve its decentralization objective. It would be difficult to point to a single
environmentalagency that i s more effective and capable today thaninthe mid-1990s as a
result o f the project. The way inwhich the project's success indicators were framed was
infact symptomatic o fthe problem. The establishment ofa databaseor publication ofa
manual was often the measure o f success, without consideration for what the database or
manual was intendedto accomplish, let alone linking this to tangible improvements in
environmentalquality.

60.      Efficiency. The ICR presented no ratio o f outputs to inputsthat could be
measured objectively or quantified. Thus, anyjudgment regarding project efficiency i s
necessarily subjective. However, the long delays inproject implementationand in
procurement, particularly for the air pollution monitoring subcomponent, due ingood
measure to poor project preparation and insufficient client buy-in, suggests that better use
could have been made o f the resources available through this project. Inaddition, a
considerable share o f the resources originally allocated for the project were either
reallocated to a disaster relief effort or unusedand, thus, canceled. On balance, therefore,
efficiency also appears to have been modest.

61,     Risk to Development Outcome. The project i s unlikely to have significant long-
term impacts and many o f the activities supported by it have not been maintained. The
process o f streamliningclearance (licensing) procedures has continued, however, and
there i s a possibility that this activity will be sustained because it benefits both
government and the proponents o f new investment projects. Evidence o fthe lack o f
sustainability will come inthe kindo f streamlining that takes place. To the extent that
processes can occur faster and with fewer transaction costs, the clearance process will
have been streamlined. Ifclearances are issued more quickly but without any gain for
environmentalprotection, theneffectiveness o f the clearance process will not have been
enhanced. Sustainability can also be measured and supported by public perception. To the

                                               23


extent that the public understandsthat improved environmental protection can yield
tangible benefits interms o f the quality o f the water it drinks, the air it breathes, or the
amount o f green space available, the more likely it will support the maintenance and
expansion o f environmental protection systems. As a result o f these considerations, risk
to development outcome i s rated significant.

62.     Outcome. Based on its modest designrelevance, efficacy and efficiency eventhe
overall outcome rating for this project i s moderately unsatisfactory.Despite some
achievements, the project did not yield significant outcomes inregardto its stated
objectives. Gains ininstitutional effectiveness and inthe development o f tools for
environmental management were marginal. Even though the project helpedto put the
issue o f reengineering environmental clearance procedures on the table, this appears to
have hadthe effect o f polarizing the debate over EIA rather than buildinga consensus.
Many o f the components that were intendedto move the environmental debate forward,
such as deconcentration o f MOEF's facilities, strengtheningo f citizen participation in
environmental monitoring, and promoting public debate on environmental issues were
dropped from the project. Combining dropped components and those that did not reach
their stated goals, favorable outcomes occurred inless thanhalf o f all components.

63.     Bank Performance. Bank performance was unsatisfactory.The project was
hastily prepared without a clearly defined strategy. It beganwith a set o f objectives
borrowed from an abstract and unrealistic Environmental Action Plan. Even after the
project was decoupled from the EAP, its objectives were not changed. Many issues that
should have beenresolvedduring preparation spilled over into implementation such as
the extent to which procurement o f services should be done internationally and the kind
o f equipment to be acquired for air-quality monitoring. There were frequent turnovers in
task team leaders -- four altogether duringthe course o f the project    -- which  did not
contribute to its continuity. The policy dialogue with the GO1was not effective and
supervision focused mainly on procurement and financial management, rather than
policy, issues. Inaddition, the Bank acquiesced inthe dropping o f some o fthe more
promising activities interms o f one o f the project's central "subobjectives," strengthening
decentralized environmental management.

64.     Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance inthis project was weak
and, thus, likewise, unsatisfactory.There does not appear to have been strong leadership
inthe MOEFor the PMUand several components were droppeddue to lack o finterest on
the Borrower's part. Monitoring and Evaluationo fthe project were virtually non-
existent. performance appears to have depended mainly on commitment ineach o f the
agencies responsible for specific components, which varied considerably over time as
experience both inMOEF and Gujarat illustrate. IEGdid not find evidence o f efforts by
MOEF to stimulate interest, promote greater coherence among the components, or seek
synergy. Initiatives in Gujarat, as inthe central Ministry itself, were jeopardized by
changes inleadership that reduced commitment to certainproject objectives and
components.

                                                  24


7. Conclusions

65.      The central weakness of theproject was that it was conceived mainly in terms of
inputs to building institutional capacity." Like many other Bank environmental projects
o f the early and mid-1990s, its outputs were nearly all defined interms o f the compilation
o f data, preparation o f studies, and strengthening o f institutions. There was little concrete
action to improve the environmentper se. Thus, while the project could claim some
modest successesingenerating studies and buildingcapacity, the ultimate purpose of
these inputs- to improve environmental quality - was essentially neglected. For the most
part, inshort, the project sought only to improve the capacity to measure, study, and
legislate. The successesthat similar projects achieved elsewhere, however, were due in
largemeasure to their focus on improving environmental quality and not simply to
provide better tools for environmental management.

66.      I n addition, those componentsthat could have had direct impact on
environmental quality were relatively neglected.Project components that receivedthe
greatest and most consistent support generally involved actions that would have only
longer-term impacts on environmental policy, while those activities that had the potential
to propel the central and state governments into a more active role inthe short and
mediumterm were deemphasized or dropped altogether. Components such as the
Paryavaran Vahini ("Environmental Brigades") and the National Environmental
Awareness Campaign, as well as the deconcentration o f MOEF's offices, for example,
were dropped. Other components such as the State Environmental Action Plan (SEAP) in
Gujarat were bluntedby resistance from the local governmental establishment, infact, by
the local environmental agencies themselves.

67.       Theprojectfocused too much attention on developingtoolsfor environmental
regulation and did not question the existing approach to regulation per se. The project
assigned highpriority to activities that could have strengthened India's capacity to
regulate and improve environmental quality, iffollowed by specific regulatory actions.
However, such actions did not materialize. Inthis regard, EMCB fell short o f its goals.
Furthermore, the project's tacit support for the existing regulatory model may have
reduced the potential value added o f Bank participation from the perspective of
environmental protection. Many initiatives were rooted inwhat manynow regard as
outmoded command-and-control (as opposed to market-based) approaches that tend to pit
regulators against the regulated ina confrontational fashion." As a result, project impact
was not dramatic and it did not substantially affect environmental policy inIndia. Indeed,
untilvery recently, there hasbeen little follow upto either it or the parallel Bank-


21. For an assessment of the early experiencewith many such projects, see Margulis, s. and Vetleseter, T.,
Environmental Capacity Building: A Review ofthe World Bank's Portfolio, Environment Department
Paper 68, World Bank, WashingtonD.C., May 1999.
22. This is ironic becauseBank ESW on environmental management inIndia at the time was
recommendinggreater use of economic instrumentsand other market-basedapproaches. However, this
was not effectively incorporatedinto the designofthe EMCB Projectexceptvery indirectly through the
EnvironmentalEconomic component.

                                                     25


supported industrial pollution control and prevention projects interms o f new lendingSz3
There was also too much focus on data gathering and not enough on decision making per
~ e .The data, moreover, were not developed interms o f measurement precision, scope
      * ~
and frequency, and they were not properly analyzed to actually support decisions.

68.      Theproject was too complexfor one agency to manage and lacked thefull
backing of the GOI.It also appears that it was too complex for the Bank to adequately
supervise, especially from Headquarters alone. The project suffered from a lack o f
coherent focus and management. Good and modest results in some components were
offset by negligibleor unsustainable results inothers. One possible explanation for this
lackluster performance i s that the Indian Government was not yet prepared to move
forward proactively on environmental questions and was reluctant to encourage or
activate a growing constituency incivil society that favored usingthe machinery o f
government to improve environmental quality.

69.      Theproject providedfew incentivesfor decision makers at various levels to
adopt or support major reforms. It did propose, at least initially, to buildenvironmental
information systems, strengthen environmental education, and enhance public
participation inenvironmental monitoring, as well as to develop a comprehensive action
planinone state as a pilot exercise. However, there was relatively little external demand
at the time for these measures. Political pressure arising from a constituency united by a
few key ideas and goals could have provided sufficient incentive for decisionmakers to
take the risk o f advocating reform. The project could also have been structured more
strategically to create such incentives at the subnational level for decision makersto set
priorities, focus on a limitedset o f reforms, and take action, as was done inthe National
Environment Project inBrazil, for example. This did occur to a limitedextent inGujarat,
butthe effort was ultimately thwarted by resistance from local interests and from within
the state's own environmental ministry.

70.      GOI could have taken advantage of growing civil society concern with
environmental quality to help garner greater supportfor project objectivesand
activities. There have beennotable advances inenvironmental policy inIndiaover the
past ten years as the result o f civil society pressure.25Among these i s air quality inseveral
major cities (see Box 1 above) which provides an interestingexample o f how regulatory
change can occur when a proactive public constituency demands it. In 1998, several


23. A follow-on industrial pollution capacity buildingproject is now under preparation.
24. The Bank has financeda number of environmental projects indifferent countriesover the years, in
which the primary objectives were to develop information and databases to use inmanagingthe
environment.Indeed, such activities are important and necessary for the rational application of resourcesto
environmentalproblems and fine tuning of environmental management instruments.But, at the end ofthe
day, the data generated often are not used for environmental management decision making. Their lack of
usefulness often leads to the neglector abandonment of databases, especially after external funding ends.
This can be due to anumber of factors, including that decisionmakers are indifferent to data or even feel
threatened by it.
25. Perhapsthe single most important event to impact environmental consciousness inIndiawas a
catastrophicat a Union Carbide fertilizer plant that occurred in 1984 and causedthe death of more than
3000 peopleand injuryto a much greater number of people.

                                              26


Indiancities beganaprogramofmandatory conversion of certainvehicles from diesel
and gasoline to compressed natural gas. The results have beendramatic. The horizon in
New Delhiand other cities i s now muchclearer while there have been measurable
reductions inmany pollutants.Ultimately, it was a civil suit brought by NGOsthat
obliged the governments o f DelhiandMumbai (and later other cities) to order the
conversiono f taxis andbuses to CNG. Similarly, the mandatory relocation of a number
o f factories and conversion o f others took place because o f court orders following public
interest lawsuits.

71.     Finally, a basic underlyingissue in thisproject is the ability to identifvtrends
and influence environmentalprotection strategies in India. Insupporting preparation o f
the EMCB Project, the Bank appears not to have questioned the basic approach ofIndian
environmental policy. Rather project designwas geared to support existing government
initiatives inkey areas, but with relatively little policy leverage. An exception was the
Environmental Economics component that supported studies which, added together and
hadtheir recommendations beenadopted, could have resulted inmajor changes inthe
approach to regulation andmay yet have that impact. Another exception was the pilot
State Environmental Action Plan (SEAP) inGujarat, which decentralized and focused the
analysis o f environmental conditions, but ultimately lacked the political support to
overcome resistance within the state bureaucracy.

8. Lessons Learned

72.     Strengtheningmanagementcapacity does not necessarily or automaticallylead
to improvementsin environmentalquality.Improving managementcapacityfocused on
a well-defined and socially demanded set of environmentalgoals wouldprobably yield
better results. While it is sometimes assumed that enhanced environmental management
capacity will naturally lead to better environmental quality, this hypothesis has never
been adequately tested and is not necessarily the case. But this was still the prevailing, if
implicit, assumption when the EMCB Project was designed. Bank experience over the
past two decades has shown, however, that projects for environmental management are
more effective ifthey are linkedto a specific program o f action which may consist o f
regulatory reform, strengthened enforcement, and the use o f new instruments to influence
private decision making.

73.     Environmental monitoring is a necessary but not sufficient conditionfor
improvingenvironmentalquality. Monitoringprograms should be designed around
the demandfor data by decision makers rather than thesimple demandfor data.
Monitoring alone will not yield improvements inenvironmental quality unless it i s
designed to fit into decision systems inwhich information i s accessible, reliable,
understandable, andused to support actions to improve environmental quality.
Monitoring systems, thus, should be conceived in a broader context to enhance the
likelihood that the data generated will be used by decision makers and the public in

                                                       27


general to take action.26Inaddition, more information does not always produce better
decisions, which arise when decision makers are motivatedto achieve a goal such as to
reduce exposure by the public to hazardous chemicals. Often, moreover, databaseshave
been designed and compiled but are not maintained." Preparation o f databases, atlases,
and action plans, thus, can be a futile exercise, inshort, unless they are not closely linked
to concrete actions to improve environmental quality and geared to the actual decisions
that must be taken.28An adequate environmental monitoring system will provide timely
information ina form that decision makers can understand and use to improve their
decisions.

74.       To enhancethe effectiveness of projects like EMCB, apriority-settingprocess
which involves variousstakeholdersshouldprecedeproject design and appraisal. The
project could have benefited from a prior exercise instrategic environmental analysis,
focusing on policies andprograms in specific sectors and/or regions. The principal lesson
inthis regardis that such projects require formulation ofclear priorities and commitment
to achieve these objectives. This analysis should be carried out ina political-economic
framework. Commitment i s measured invarious ways, but certain tests can be applied to
assure that there will be commitment to actually solving environmental problems. Some
o f the relevant questions are indicated below. While not all o f these indicators may be
positive, at least some o f them must be presentinorder for environmental problems to be
effectively addressed and solved.

           Does the general public, as well as environmental specialists, recognize the
           existence and magnitude o f specific environmental problems?
            Who loses and who gains inthe current distribution o f pollution and
            degradation?
           Is there political support for solving environmentalproblems? Do political
            leaders recognize the importance o fthe issue?
            Which stakeholders might oppose the proposed policies?
            Which stakeholders can be counted on for support o f new policies?



26. Decision makers may include officials seekingto allocate scarce resources amongobjectives or
investors seekingto minimizethe regulatory burdenon their activities. The public at large may also be
consideredto be decisionmakers concernedwith places to live or for recreationwhere the air and water are
healthful and secure. Ifdecision makers find data useful, they will often be willing to pay for it.
Maintenanceofupdateddatabases is often contingent on willingness to pay by the users
27. There is an unspokenpremiseinthe allocation ofresourcesto construct databases, such as GIS
systems, that information will be usedto take better decisions. It follows that greater quantities of
information or information of greater precision compiled into a database is ipso facto desirable. However,
this premiseneedsto be consideredinlight of actualdecision-makingprocesses. Insome cases, decision
makers refer to information but use it selectively or not at all. Inothers, decisionmakers would like to have
better information, but only ifit is available in a format and at a scale that they can utilize. Time-series data
are essential for environmental monitoring because, without it, environmental conditions cannot be linked
to specific events such as increase in industrial output or the implementation of an enforcement campaign
28. Inthe Maldives, for example, decisions are currently being taken on the use of islandsfor tourism, as
residential islandsor "safe islands," as industrial islands, and even as landfill islands. To date, such
decisionshave beentaken with regardto many factors, not including the fragility or vulnerability ofthe
habitatto the proposeduse.

                                               28


      0  Are decisionmakers open to new ways o f dealing with environmental problems,
          such as pollution taxes, tradable permits or other instruments?
      0  Can resolving environmental problems be linked to improvements inquality o f
          life for a segment o f the population (e.g. reduction o f disease)?
      0  Are financial resources available to manage the problems that exist?
      0  Are environmentalists inand outside government willing to prioritize, such as
          attackingthe more serious problems first?
      0  Are the indirect measures for environmental management such as improved
         monitoring or adoption of new standards, developed ina context inwhich
          information i s likely to lead to environmental management policies or decisions?

75.     Associated lessons are that a sharper focus on environmentalresultsand a
betterex ante analysisof the politicaleconomy of environmentalregulationcould
havemadethis a moresuccessfulprojectwith moresustainableoutcomes.Finally,
the project also clearly demonstrates the risks ofdesigninganoperationaroundthe
interests o f individual institutional champions, as occurred both at the central Ministryo f
Environment and Forests (MOEF) and inthe Gujarat Ecology Commission (GEC),
because, once those champions leave, the impetus may soon be lost. A strong focus on
specific desiredenvironmental outcomes and basingproject design on a broader up-front
stakeholder consultation process would helpto insulate it from the kinds o f abrupt
changes and insufficient follow-through that characterized implementation o f the EMCB
operation and could also contribute to more effective enforcement o f and compliance
with environmentallaws and regulations.

                                                    29                                          Annex A


AnnexA. BasicData Sheet

INDIA ENVIRONMENTALCAPACITYBUILDINGPROJECT
(CREDIT 2930-IN)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                 Appraisal           Actual or          Actual as % of
                                                 estimate       current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                 61.6               27.5                     45
Credit amount                                       49.1               40.4*                    82
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                             5.3
 Refers to the entire Credit amount, roughly 47 percent of which was reallocated to the Gujarat Emergency
Earthquake Reconstruction Project in April 2002, as the Bank financial data base on disbursements and
cancellations does not differentiate between the actual amounts used for the present operation and for the
reconstruction project. As the Credit was in SDRs, the actual credit and cancellation amounts do not sum to
the apprisal credit amount because of exchange rate differences.

Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements
-                       FY98        FY99      FYOO       FYOl      FY02   -  FY03       FY04      FY05
Appraisal estimate         4.9        15.5      29.2       40.8       47.3      50.2      50.2       50.2
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)               3.0       4.2        6.1       13.0       31.8      36.1      41.0       40.5
Actual as % of              61         27        21        32         67         72         82        81
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: December 2004

Project Dates
                                                         Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                                   03101/ I996                    03/01/1996
Negotiations                                            10/31/1996                     10131/I996
Board approval                                          12/23/1996                     12/23/1996
Signing                                                 0311411997                     03/14/1997
Effectiveness                                           06112/1997                     0511311997
Closing date                                            06/30/2003                     06/30/2004

Annex A                                     30


StaffInputs(ActuaKLatest Estimate)
    Stage of Project Cycle              Staff weeks                US$ (`000)
Identification/Preparation                  N.A.                      N.A.
Appraisal/Negotiation                       N.A.                      N.A.
Supervision                                 31.5                     105.4

Completion                                  9.0                       27.5

Total                                       40.5                     108.1


MissionData
             Date            No. of         Specializations      Implemen.   Devel.
        (month/year)        persons           represented         status   objectives
 Identification/ Preparation
Appraisal
 Supervision
           06/10/1997         7     TM (2);PRINC.COUNSEL (1);
                                    ADMIN. PUBLKXHEALTH (1);         S
                                    ECONOMIST (1); NGO SPEC.
                                    (1); COAST8MARINE MGT
                                    SPEC. (1)
           10/17/1997         7     TM (1); MINING ENGINEER (1);     S
                                     ECONOMIST(1); TM/ENVIRON.
                                    OFFICER (1); NGO SPECIALIST
                                    (1); COAST & MARINE MGT SPE
                                    (1); ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
           05/14/1998         7     TASK LEADER (1); MINING          S         S
                                     ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST (2);
                                    TUENVIRONMENT OFFICER (1);
                                     NGO SPECIALIST(1);
                                     ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEER
            12/04/1998        6     TASK LEADER (1); ECONOMIST       S         S
                                     (2); TUENVIRONMENT OFFICER
                                     (1); NGO SPECIALIST (1);
                                     ENVIRONMENTSPECIALIST (1)
           06/10/1999         5     TASK LEADER(1); ENV              U         U
                                     ECONOMIST(1);
                                    TUENVIRONMENT SPECIAL (1);
                                     ENVIRONMENTSPECIALIST (1);
                                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
            I1/30/1999        5      TASK LEADER (1); ENV            U         U
                                     ECONOMIST (1);
                                    TUENVIRONMENT SPECIAL (1);
                                     ENVIRONMENTSPECIALIST (1);
                                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
           04/20/2000         8     TEAM LEADER(1);                  U         U
                                    SR.ECONOMIST (2); ENV.
                                     SPECIALIST (3); SR.PROC
                                     SPECIALIST (1); SR.FIN.MGT
                                     SPECIALIST(1)
           12/14/2000         3     TEAM LEADER/ECONOMICS(1);        S         S
                                     ENV. ECONOMIST(1);
                                     ENV.ENGINEER(1)
           06/12/2001         2     TASK LEADER (I),                 S         S
                                     ENV.ECONOMlST (1)
            12/08/2001        3     TASK LEADER (I),                 S         S
                                    SR.ECONOMlST ( f ) ,
                                    ENVSPECIALIST (1)

                                                  31                                Annex A


          Date                 No. of             Specializations        Implemen.    Devel.
     (month/year)             persons              represented             status  objectives
         06/28/2002              6        TASK LEADER/ECONOMIST(1);          S          S
                                          SR. ECONOMIST(1); ENVL
                                          SPECIALIST(1); SR. ENVL
                                          SPECIALIST(1); SR. PROC.
                                          SPECIALIST(1);SR FIN MGT
                                          SPECIALIST(1)
         12/30/2002              3        TASK LEADER (I),                   S          S
                                          SR.ECONOMIST(I),
                                          ENV.SPECIALIST(1)
         0411412003              3        l(1);LENVPROGRAMASSISTANT
                                            T (1);                           S          S
                                                   SPECIALIST (1)
         11/04/2003              6        TEAM LEADER (1);TECHNICAL          S          S
                                          CONSULTANT(1); PROGRAM
                                          ASSISTANT (1); PROCUREMENT
                                          SPECIALIST(1); ENV SPECIALIST
                                          (1);ENV.EDUCATION(1)
         04/07/2004              3        TEAM LEADER (1);TECHNICAL          S          S
                                          CONSULTANT(1); PROGRAM
                                          ASSISTANT (1);

ICR
         07115/04                3         TEAM LEADER (1);
                                           TECHNICAL CONSULTANT              S          S
                                            (1); PROGRAMASSISTANT
                                            (1)
         10/30/04                3         TEAM LEADER (I),                  S          S
                                            SR.PROC.SPECIALIST(1);
                                            PROGRAMASSISTANT(1)



Other ProjectData
BorrowerIExecuting Agency:

FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
                 Operation                         Creditno.      Amount         Board date
                                                                (US$ million)
Capacity Building for Industrial Pollution             In          70.0          1111012008
Management                                         preparation                   (estimate)


                                          33                            Annex B


Annex B. Illustrationof EnvironmentalStandards

ALUMINIUM :EMISSION STANDARDS
                                        Pollutants           Emission Limit

(a) Alumina Plant
    i) Raw Material Handling  ParticulateMatter       150 mglNm3
    (Primary and Secondary
    Crusher)

    ii) PrecipitationAreas -  ParticulateMatter       250 mg/Nm3
    calcination               Carbon Monoxide         1% max.
                              Stack Height            H=14 (Q0.3 where, Q is
                                                      emission rate of SO2 in kg/hr
                                                      and H is stack height in metres

(b) Smelter Plant
    i) Green Anode Shop       ParticulateMatter       150 mg/Nm3

    ii) Anode Bake Oven       Total Fluoride(F)       150 mglNm3
                                                      0.3 kg/tonne of
                                                      Aluminium

    iii) Pot-room             ParticulateMatter       150 mg/Nm3
                              Total Fluoride (F)
                              vss                     4.7 kg/tonne of Aluminium
                                                      produced

                              HSS                     6.0 kg/tonne of Aluminium
                                                      produced

                              PBSW                    2.5 kg/tonne of Aluminium
                                                      produced

                              PBCW                    1.O kg/tonne of Aluminium
                                                      produced

                              Stack Height            H=l4(Q)0.3where Q is
                                                      emission rate of SO2 in kg/hr
                                                      and H is stack height in metres.


