Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No. AB846 
Project Name 
Tanzania Emergency Power Supply Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Power (100%) 
Project ID 
P074624 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA 
Implementing Agency 
Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (TANESCO) 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [
X
] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [
X
 ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ 
 
] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 31, 2004 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 27, 2004 
 
1. 
The Emergency Drought Situation and Impact on the Power Sector 
 
The key development issue is avoiding prolonged, severe load-shedding due to an extended drought 
affecting Tanzania’s predominantly hydropower system, and the consequent negative economic impact 
and disruption of social services.   
 
Background
.  TANESCO’s interconnected grid system has an installed capacity of 773MW, of which 71% 
is hydropower
1
.  TANESCO’s largest hydropower complex, the Mtera and Kidatu Dams, is on the Great 
Ruaha River.  The Mtera Dam is the most important reservoir in the power system providing over-year 
storage capability.  Also, it regulates the outflows to maintain the water level for the downstream Kidatu 
hydropower plant.  Thermal generation in Tanzania currently relies on imported Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO), 
Jet A (aviation) fuel and diesel.  The Songo Songo gas pipeline is expected to be commissioned  around 
mid-June 2004, at which time the Ubungo power plant will be privatized and run on domestic gas instead 
of Jet A fuel.  Peak demand in December 2003 reached 500MW.   
 
Hydro Thermal 
 Installed 
Capacity (MW) 
 Installed 
Capacity (MW) 
Mtera 
80 
Tegeta (privately owned and operated 
by Independent Power Tanzania 
Limited (IPTL)) 
100 
Kidatu 204 
Ubungo
2
  (owned by TANESCO, 
operated by Songas until privatization 
in June 2004) 
112 
Kihansi 180 
Grid-connected 
diesel 
5 
Nyumba ya Mungu, etc. 
96  
 
Total 556 
 
217 
 
Under the leadership of the private sector management contractor, TANESCO’s operational and financial 
performance over the past two years has improved significantly.  Since 2001, system losses have declined 
                                                          
 
1
 TANESCO also has around 30MW of thermal generation in isolated areas not connected to the grid.   
2
 40MW of the 112MW Ubungo Power Plant is currently being overhauled and upgraded to gas firing. The 2 x 20 ABB gas 
turbines will be commissioned by mid-May 2004 and will be able to run on liquid fuel until the plant is commissioned to gas 
firing on June 17, 2004. 
Page  2
 
 
2
2
from 27% to 24%, the billing collection rate (excluding settlement of Government arrears) improved from 
76% to 92%, staff numbers have been reduced by 1,428 to 4,991, more competitive prices have been 
obtained from suppliers, TANESCO enjoys an improved credit rating in the market, and administration 
and overhead costs have been reduced.  The resulting improvements in cash inflows enabled TANESCO 
to finance: (a) redundancy costs of TShs22 billion; (b) efficiency improvement costs of TShs8 billion; 
and(c) capital investments of TShs11.3 billion. The estimated net cash flow impact of management 
actions over the past years is summarized below: 
 
TANESCO: Efficiency Improvement Gains 2002-03 
 
 
2002-03 
 
TShs 
billions 
US$ 
millions 
Reduction in T&D losses from 27% to 24% 
7.1 
7.1 
Improvement in collection rate from 76% to 92% 
45.4 
45.1 
Reduction in payroll costs due to retrenchment of 1,428 staff 
6.4 
6.1 
Less: Efficiency improvement costs 
(7.5) 
(7.3) 
Additional net cash inflows before redundancy costs 
51.4 
51.0 
Less: Redundancy costs 
(22.0) 
(21.0) 
Additional net cash inflows after redundancy costs 
29.4 
30.0 
 
 
Impact of the Drought on the Power Sector
.  In 2003, both the long rains (March – May) and the short 
rains (December-January) failed in some parts of the country.  Inflows to Mtera were just 40% of the 40-
year average.  Despite the poor inflows in 2003, TANESCO generated almost as many kWh from 
hydropower during 2003 as in the previous year in an effort to avoid both load-shedding and the use of 
prohibitively-expensive thermal generation capacity.  The effect was that the Mtera reservoir was severely 
depleted.  By the beginning of February 2004, the reservoir level was at 690.31m - only 31cm above the 
minimum level required for generation.  By comparison, in 6 out of the last 7 years, the level in February 
has exceeded 694m.  The current estimate is that the Mtera reservoir will reach a level of about 1.5m 
above the minimum level (as compared with 4-5m above the minimum level needed to maintain normal 
hydro output).  This means that TANESCO will continue to rely heavily on thermal generation in 2004 
and 2005 to make up for the reduced hydro output from Mtera and Kidatu.   
 
TANESCO began dispatching thermal power from Tegeta in July 2003 as a base-load unit, i.e. at capacity 
factor close to 90%.  The continuing drought in the latter half of 2003 and declining reservoir level at 
Mtera dam forced TANESCO to negotiate with Songas to operate the Ubungo 3 and 4 thermal plants 
(2x40 MW LM6000 aero-derivative gas turbines) on expensive Jet A fuel starting in December 2003.  
After TANESCO’s cash reserves were depleted, in November 2003 the Ministry of Finance assisted 
TANESCO in the emergency purchase of fuel through February 2004, to keep the Tegeta Power and 
Ubungo Power Plants running at close to 100% capacity.  Since December 2003, TANESCO has been 
spending about US$8 million per month in imported fuel charges to run 80MW at the Ubungo and 
100MW at the Tegeta/IPTL Power Plants.  By contrast, TANESCO collects about 93% of billed energy, 
or about US$15-16 million per month.   
 
The Extent of the Emergency
.  TANESCO is now unable to pay for fuel for the extra thermal generation 
that is needed to make up for the reduced hydro output in 2004, and there is a shortage of thermal 
generation capacity.  About 36MW of new thermal capacity is needed in October 2004 with a second 
36MW in early 2005.  Private financing is envisaged for the new thermal capacity and negotiations with a 
private sponsor (Songas) are under way.  However, without assistance in covering the cost of imported 
fuel, TANESCO will load shed about 891 GWh during March-December 2004, which accounts for about 
27% of projected energy requirements in 2004, or a loss of revenues to TANESCO of US$55 million.  
Page  3
 
 
3
3
The shortage of electricity supply during 2004 could severely dislocate economic activity, and could 
continue through 2005 if the Government and TANESCO do not take appropriate mitigative actions to 
ensure the viability of the power sector.  The cost of this unserved energy
3
 to the economy is estimated at 
US$550 million, or 6% of GDP.  If the 2004 long rains (now through May) fail, TANESCO would also 
need to lease additional thermal capacity to meet demand. 
 
Impact of the Drought on other Sectors.
   Following the poor long rains in 2003, an assessment conducted 
in July by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security in conjunction with a multi-agency Food 
Security Information Team identified 47 districts mostly in the central and northern areas with a 
population of 2 million, as being in need of food assistance, and a corresponding food assistance 
requirement of 77,500MT.   In August the Government launched an appeal for food aid.  A subsequent 
assessment was conducted in February 2004 after the short rains (due in November / December) also 
failed in some areas.  The draft report from this recent assessment estimates that 3.5 million people will 
need food aid between now and the next harvest in April/May 2004. 
 
 
2. 
The Government’s Response 
 
TANESCO has considered the following potential sources of generation, together with their unit costs, 
with the objective of procuring the least-cost option(s) to make up for the reduced hydro output expected 
in 2004 (see table below)
4
.  
 
Emergency Power Generation Options: Sources and Unit Costs per kWh 
 
 Fuel 
Type 
Available 
Capacity 
(MW) 
Load Factor 
Total Cost 
(US$/kWh) 
Tegeta (IPTL) 
HFO 
100 
90% 
0.101* 
Songas (Ubungo) 
Jet-A 
76 
90% 
0.117 
Songas (Ubungo) 
Gas 
112 
90% 
0.046 
Songas (5th unit) 
Gas 
33 
90% 
0.031 
Geita mine leased diesel 
AGO 
15 
80% 
0.105 
Local auto generation 
HFO 
16 
80% 
0.079 
Foreign EPP 
AGO 
30 
100% 
0.103 
Foreign EPP 
gas 
36 
92% 
0.085 
TANESCO grid diesels 
AGO 
11 
60% 
0.132 
* $0.07/kWh of this total is the energy charge.  In considering the least-cost options for replacing reduced hydro 
output it is the energy charge that is of interest, since the capacity payment is on a take-or-pay basis. 
 
Under the probable 2004 scenario, 1,767 GWh from hydro resources would be dispatched (compared with 
2,660 GWh for a normal year).  TANESCO, the Government and IDA have agreed on the generation plan 
for the probable scenario to meet electricity demand from April 2004-January 2005.  The Tegeta plant 
would be running at 100% load factor up to the end of June 2004.  The gas turbines at the Ubungo Power 
Plant will balance the shortfall with generation from Jet A-1 fuel until June 2004.  After commissioning 
of the Songo Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project (Credit 3569-TA) scheduled for 
June 17, 2004, the Ubungo Power Plant would run on gas at 100% capacity utilization, and Tegeta would 
take up the balance. TANESCO has requested that Songas expedite installation of a fifth turbine (36MW) 
                                                          
 
3
 Based on calculations prepared in connection with the East Africa Community Power Sector Master Plan. 
4
 TANESCO considered utilizing the dead storage at the Mtera Power Plant for generation at the Kidatu Power 
station which is downstream. This option is not recommended as it has both negative environmental and long-term 
power generation consequences. 
 
Page  4
 
 
4
4
at the Ubungo Power Plant as a private project finance transaction, which would come online in October.  
Grid-connected diesel generators would make up the remainder.  Although the Tegeta Plant total unit 
charge in the above table is high compared with some of the other options, the capacity charge must be 
paid whether the plant is dispatched or not.  Thus the incremental cost of a unit from the Tegeta plant is 
essentially the energy charge (US$0.07/kwh) making this the least cost option after the gas-fired 
generation. 
 
Under the worst case scenario (failure of 2004 rains) only 1,427 GWh of hydro would be generated and 
additional thermal capacity could be required.  To ensure that even for the worst case scenario sufficient 
capacity would be available to meet demand, TANESCO will arrange for the 18x1MW diesel units (de-
rated to 15MW) owned by the Geita mine to be moved to TANESCO’s Mwanza facility.  Although the 
unit cost per kWh of the Geita EPP is higher than that of foreign gas-based EPPs and other auto-
generation, this option is preferred because:  (a) it is more flexible than imported EPPs, i.e. the cost of 
transport would be borne by TANESCO, but energy would be generated and paid for on an as-needed 
basis without a minimum take-or-pay capacity charge that would be required with the foreign EPPs; (b) it 
can be implemented the fastest and is cheaper than imported diesel EPPs; (c) it reduces the costs and 
logistics of fuel transportation to about 10 auto-generators throughout the country; and (d) limits the 
potential environmental impact to one site which is under TANESCO’s control and which therefore can 
be easily monitored.  In case further generation capacity were required, TANESCO is in the process of 
making preliminary arrangements for local auto-generation, and has initiated the procurement process for 
foreign EPPs.   
 
TANESCO will have a better sense of the hydrological situation by the end of May 2004 (end of long 
rains).  If local auto-generation is deemed necessary, this can be brought on line very quickly.  
TANESCO would also have the option of quickly completing the contracting of foreign EPPs since the 
procurement process would be at an advanced stage by May.  However, if by May it is clear that foreign 
EPPs would not be needed, TANESCO would be able to terminate the procurement process without 
penalty. 
 
The estimated total cost of the incremental thermal generation
 due to the effects of the 2003 drought (i.e. 
above the thermal generation that would be required in a normal hydro year) based on the plan described 
above is about US$45 million. 
 
Following TANESCO’s request for Government assistance to meet these costs, the Government has 
written to IDA requesting support for the emergency power requirements.  The government is considering 
ways to provide assistance to TANESCO for March and April payments.  One option is to provide 
TANESCO up-front bridge financing, while requiring TANESCO to pay back this amount through a 
4.3% tariff adjustment and a 10% “drought surcharge” on the tariff to be implemented in April 2004.  
From May onwards, the Government is looking to IDA for assistance since there is no provision in this 
year’s budget for further TANESCO assistance and it is felt that recouping the entire cost of the year’s 
incremental thermal generation through tariff adjustments and surcharges would have a negative impact 
on economic activity and TANESCO’s collections. 
 
TANESCO will start 2005 with a very low level of water in the Mtera reservoir.  Even with excellent 
rains in 2005, there will be a need to replenish Mtera reservoir, so that reliance on thermal generation will 
continue even under optimistic rainfall scenarios. The solution is to move as quickly as possible to gas-
based thermal generation.  To achieve this, TANESCO is targeting commissioning of a sixth gas turbine 
at the Ubungo Power Plant by January 2005 (36MW). Both the fifth and sixth gas turbine units would be 
financed, owned and operated by the private sector.  Even with a sixth gas turbine in operation, the Tegeta 
Plant will continue to be run at a high load factor in 2005.  Given the expected load factor for Tegeta in 
2004 and 2005 and the significant cost of HFO (approximately US$4.1 million per month at a 90% load 
Page  5
 
 
5
5
factor), it makes economic and financial sense to convert Tegeta to gas-firing as soon as possible.  The 
Government has requested, as part of its emergency power generation plan, that the conversion of Tegeta 
be financed and implemented on a phased basis as soon as possible.  This could be financed with savings 
from the Songo Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project.  Without these actions in 2004 
and early 2005, TANESCO and the Government will be forced to choose between continuing to use very 
expensive thermal generation or load-shedding in 2005.   
 
Measures to Mitigate the Impact of Future Droughts
.  The objective of diversifying Tanzania’s electricity 
generation sources by using indigenous gas was to reduce the country’s over-dependence on hydropower. 
Once the gas infrastructure is commissioned, TANESCO will revise its operating regime to rely on firm 
hydropower instead of average hydropower output at Mtera and Kidatu.  The availability of gas for power 
generation coupled with the short lead-time for implementing small increments of additional gas-fired 
capacity is one aspect of the Government’s mitigation plan.  In addition there is a need to put in place 
measures to ensure financial sustainability in the sector and to ensure that in the future revenues are 
sufficient to meet costs of electricity supply even in drought years. 
 
The proposed project to assist with drought-related incremental power generation costs will make a 
significant contribution TANESCO’s financial requirements in 2004.  However, even with the proposed 
Emergency Power Generation Project, the projections of TANESCO’s financial situation show a shortfall 
in 2004 of US$22 million, due to the cost of fuel and energy procured for March and April 2004 that 
would have to be financed by the Government. The financial projections indicate a further shortfall of 
US$27 million for 2005 if the current average tariff level of TSh69 per kWh (US$0.06 equivalent) is not 
adjusted.  Steps must be taken to ensure that TANESCO is able to cover the financing gap in 2004, and to 
meet its financial obligations in 2005 and beyond.  Without the proposed tariff adjustments and fuel 
surcharges in 2004 and 2005 (discussed below), TANESCO will not be able to transition out of the 
emergency generation phase into a normal planning mode without significant budgetary support in the 
form of subsidies for the foreseeable future.  Similarly, it will be very difficult to obtain investment 
funding from donors if TANESCO does not take steps to emerge from the current crisis and to move 
towards a sustainable financial footing without Government subsidies.  
 
In addition with the proposed short term emergency measures (consistent with the plan above) the 
Government is reviewing a medium term plan to move TANESCO from a crisis situation, to a sustainable 
financial and operational footing.  This includes the analytical underpinning for a proposed tariff increase 
to rebalance domestic and industrial tariffs, of about 4.3% (recently approved by TANESCO’s Board), an 
emergency fuel surcharge during 2004 and 2005, as well as the possibility of indexing of tariffs to 
inflation and exchange rate fluctuation commencing January 2005.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for Bank involvement is to provide financial assistance to TANESCO to implement its 
emergency power plan, without which TANESCO will be unable to pay for fuel and emergency 
generation capacity resulting in severe load-shedding for up to eight months, with an estimated economic 
cost of up to 6% of GDP.  A donors’ meeting was held on February 26, 2004.  While the donors were keen 
to learn about the power sector situation, no funding support was forthcoming. 
 
4. 
Objectives of the Proposed Emergency Power Generation Project 
 
The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing its emergency measures to avert a 
prolonged period of severe load-shedding which threatens to cripple economic activities, and hinder the 
delivery of social services.   
 
Page  6
 
 
6
6
 
5. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed Emergency Power Supply Project would provide fuel and energy purchases to maintain 
power supply at a level sufficient to prevent a severe contraction of the economy and in the provision of 
social services. IDA financing is proposed to cover:  (a) the incremental fuel costs of running the Ubungo 
Power Plant on JetA-1 fuel; (b) the incremental costs/kWh produced from the Tegeta Power Plant 
(100MW) on HFO; and (c) the cost of running the thermal generation (18x1MW) to be provided by the 
Geita mines if this is determined to be necessary.  TANESCO is exploring support from the Government 
and other means, to cover its emergency fuel requirements during March and April 2004.   
 
 
6. 
Project Costs and Tentative Financing Plan 
 
The financing plan described below covers the incremental operating costs due to the drought through 
January 2005, as well as the capital costs for new generation plant which is necessary to avoid load 
shedding and which will reduce the country’s over dependence on hydropower and its susceptibility to 
drought-induced power shortages. 
 
 Govt. 
TANESCO 
Private 
Sector 
IDA 
Total 
Tegeta Power Plant (kWh costs incl. HFO) 
13.00* 
 
 
32.22 
45.22 
Ubungo Power Plant (Jet A1 fuel) 
10.00* 
 
 
5.71 
15.71 
Grid-Connected Diesels (fuel)  
 
3.67 
 
 
3.67 
Local EPP:  Geita (kWh costs incl AGO) 
 
 
 
7.36 
7.36 
Ubungo Power Plant Unit 5 (36MW) 
 
 
19.34 
 
19.34 
Ubungo Power Plant Unit 6 (36MW) 
 
 
22.46 
 
22.46 
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 
23.00 
3.67 
41.80 
45.29 
113.76 
  *This represents the Government’s contribution to incremental fuel purchases commencing in April 2004.  
 
7. Safeguard 
Policies 
 
TANESCO was provided with draft terms of reference for an environmental audit of the project sites, 
which had been reviewed and approved by Bank environmental staff.  Since existing generation sites 
would be used, there is no resettlement.  The objectives of the environmental audit are to help the 
Government of Tanzania to determine the environmental liabilities and the need for remedial actions 
necessary to bring the facilities into compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies and environmental 
guidelines, and to protect the health of workers and the general public living in the area and the 
environment.  The sites impacted by the project include:  (a) TANESCO’s facilities at Mwanza; (b) the 
Tegeta Power Plant (100MW); and (c) the Ubungo Power Plant (112MW).  It should be noted that an EIA 
and Environmental Audit have already been carried out at the Ubungo Power Plant under Credits 3569-
TA and 2497-TA, and a summary of air quality monitoring could be provided by Songas.  Similarly, 
periodic reports on the environmental aspects of the Tegeta power plant, including air emissions, are 
prepared and should be reviewed and summarized by TANESCO.  TANESCO’s environmental unit will 
carry out this audit, which should be completed by April 30, 2004 if possible.  The main task will be a 
complete environmental assessment of the Mwanza site.  The proposed project is rated as a “B” category. 
 
 
8. Implementation 
Arrangements 
 
The Deputy Managing Director of Generation, Transmission and Engineering will have overall 
responsibility for implementation of the proposed project. The Director of Projects will report to the 
Page  7
 
 
7
7
Deputy Managing Director of Generation, Transmission and Engineering, and has been appointed as the 
Project Manager. The Project Manager will coordinate and manage project activities and to interact across 
all departments in TANESCO and with the Ministry of Energy and Minerals, the Ministry of Finance and 
IDA. The Deputy Managing Director of Finance and Corporate Services will be responsible for 
procurement and financial aspects, and the Deputy Managing Director of Distribution will be accountable 
for monitoring the operation of the local EPPs and auto-generators (if required), through TANESCO’s 
regional offices.  The Director of Internal Audit will be in charge of project auditing, and will report 
directly to the Managing Director. 
 
9. 
Project and Implementation Issues and Actions   
 
The main implementation issues include:  (a) tax exemption on fuel as well as Tanzania Revenue 
Authority indemnity to Geita mines for the use of its generation plant for purposes other than mining 
related activities; (b) preparation of bidding documents for IDA review and no objection, for fuel, 
(foreign) emergency power plant, and assessment of the terms and conditions of Power Purchase 
Agreements for (domestic) auto-generators. 
 
 
10. 
Benefit and Risks 
 
Benefits
.  (a) The project would help avoid significant loss of economic activity and jobs which would 
result from severe load-shedding.  (b) The project would also support on-going reform in the power 
sector. TANESCO’s performance has significantly improved since the performance-based management 
contract was initiated, and there is a chance of real commercial operation for the first time.  Severe load-
shedding or massive tariff increases (i.e. a surcharge to fully cover all additional thermal generation costs) 
could potentially lead to an end to the private participation if the public perceives (albeit incorrectly) that 
the new management is responsible for the emergency situation and these unpopular measures. 
 
Risks
.  Power shortages could last beyond December 2004 if the short rains do not materialize and there 
are any delays in commissioning the additional gas-fired generation capacity.  Also, if Government does 
not take steps to place the sector on a sound financial footing (specifically tariff adjustments and debt 
restructuring), TANESCO would likely continue to require Government financial assistance to avoid load 
shedding in 2005.  Measures to mitigate these risks include (a) proposed IDA financing (under the Songo 
Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project, Credit 3569-TA) for the conversion of the 
Tegeta plant to gas-firing as soon as possible, (b) satisfactory progress on continuing to implement the 
Government’s power sector reform program; (c) the cost savings available under Credit 3569-TA will 
underpin the policy dialogue on power sector reform and restructuring, financial restructuring and 
establishing a functioning regulatory body.  
 
 
11. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Karen Rasmussen 
Title: Team Leader, Lead Financial Analyst 
Tel: (202) 473-4168 
Fax: (202) 473-5123 
Email: 
krasmussen@worldbank.org
 
 
 
 
 
Page  8
 
 
8
8
 
