Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3916 TA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Emergency Power Supply Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
TANZANIA ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED 
 
Dated   July  5 ,  2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 
3916 TA
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 5,  2004, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and 
TANZANIA 
ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY 
LIMITED (TANESCO). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between the United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 30,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that TANESCO agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and TANESCO, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to TANESCO on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 WHEREAS 
TANESCO, 
in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.   
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.01. (a) TANESCO declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and TANESCO shall otherwise agree, TANESCO shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) TANESCO shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, TANESCO shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than four (4) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association, the Borrower and TANESCO, a 
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower and TANESCO on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. TANESCO shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TANESCO shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) TANESCO shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.  
Page  4
-
3
-
(b)  
TANESCO shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TANESCO of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of TANESCO 
 
Section 3.01. TANESCO shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. TANESCO shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial 
and technical practices. 
 
Section 3.03. TANESCO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  TANESCO shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) TANESCO 
shall: 
(i) 
have its entity financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each  calendar year 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such calendar year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements 
by said auditors,  in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; 
and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements for 
purchases under the project, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon TANESCO’s reporting obligations set out 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, TANESCO shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; 
and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement and disbursements under the 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR, subjected to internal TANESCO audit and certified by 
TANESCO, shall be furnished to the Association no later than 30 days after the end of the 
First Project Month, and thereafter, no later than 30 days following the end of each Project 
Month.   
(c)  
TANESCO shall have the Project’s records and accounts (referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement) audited, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, not later than 45 days after the interim reporting date (which 
interim reporting date is the date four months after the Effective Date) and thereafter, within 
45 days of the Closing Date of the Project, except as the Association shall otherwise agree. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
TANESCO  thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following three dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date three years after the date of this Agreement; or 
(iii) 
the date on which the Subsidiary Grant Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify TANESCO of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made 
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at 
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
Page  7
-
6
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 For 
TANESCO: 
 
TANZANIA ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED 
 
Umeme Park 
 
Morogoro Road 
 
P.O. Box 9024 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 
Tanzania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
5
22
245
1159 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of TANESCO may be 
taken or executed by TANESCO or such other person or persons as TANESCO shall 
designate in writing, and TANESCO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively be one instrument. 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dar es 
Salaam, The United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/   Judy M. O’connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
TANZANIA ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED 
 
By  /s/   C.G.N. Huysen 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Section I:
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the meanings 
ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines. 
Section II
:
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts for goods shall be 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. Fuels 
shall be procured using the Bank's Standard Bidding Document for the Procurement of 
Crude Oil/Petroleum Products.  Pursuant to paragraph 2.44 of the Guidelines and in 
consideration of the Emergency, the time allowed for the preparation and submission of bids 
will be reduced to 15 days. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
Direct Contracting
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for direct contracting may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, each 
contract for goods and services (other than consultants’ services)
 
procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding, or Direct Contracting shall be subject to Prior Review by 
the Bank. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A. Monthly 
Report
TANESCO shall: 
(a) 
at the end of the First Project Month and thereafter, not later than 30 days 
following the end of each Project Month, submit a report on all matters relating to the 
progress of the Project.  
(b) 
act promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement such measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance 
of the objectives of the Project. 
B. Mid-Term 
Review
TANESCO shall review with the Association, by November 1, 2004, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the monthly reports as well as the audited records and 
accounts, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievements of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
C. Environmental 
Audit
TANESCO shall implement the Project in accordance with the recommendations of 
the Environmental Audit, and shall cause the IPP to comply with said recommendations.  
D. 
Study on Demand-Side Management
TANESCO shall, with the technical assistance of the Borrower and the Association, 
no later than October 31, 2004, or such later date as the Association may agree, provide the 
Association with a study on demand-side management, which study will deal with the 
management of electricity demand and consumption. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Monitoring Indicators 
·
Monthly projected and actual total hydropower output (KWh) 
·
Monthly projected and actual IPP output (KWh) 
·
Monthly projected and actual Ubungo Power Plant output (KWh) until gas supply is 
available 
·
Planned and actual commissioning dates for 2x36MW additional gas turbines 
·
Mtera Reservoir level at the end of each month (meters above sea level)
 
