Page  1
 
 
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AC788  
 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: March 18, 2004 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Tanzania 
Project ID: P074624 
Project Name: Tanzania Emergency Power 
Supply Project 
Task Team Leader: Karen Rasmussen 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 2004 
Estimated Board Date: May 27, 2004 
Managing Unit: AFTEG 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Assistance 
Sector: Power (100%) 
Theme:  
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team: Robert Robelus, Kristine Ivarsdotter 
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IDA: About US$45 million 
Other financing amounts by source:  
(US$million) 
TANESCO 
GOT 
Private Sector 
 
Total Project Costs, excl. IDC 
4.0 
23.0 
42.0 
 
114.0 
 
 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing its emergency measures to avert a 
prolonged period of severe load-shedding which threatens to cripple economic activities, and hinder the 
delivery of social services.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The proposed Emergency Power Supply Project would provide quick disbursing support to finance fuel 
and energy purchases to maintain power supply at a level sufficient to prevent a severe contraction of the 
economy and in the provision of social services.  
 
The proposed project would provide funds to assist TANESCO and the Government to meet the 
incremental costs attributable to the 2003/04 drought.  IDA financing is proposed to cover:  (a) the 
incremental fuel costs of running the Ubungo Power Plant on JetA-1 fuel; (b) the incremental costs/kWh 
produced from the Tegeta Power Plant (100MW) on HFO; and (c) the cost of running the thermal 
generation (18x1MW) to be provided by the Geita mines if this is determined to be necessary.  
TANESCO is exploring support from the Government and other means to cover its emergency fuel 
requirements during March and April 2004.   
 
D.  Project Location (if known) 
 
Page  2
 
 
[Guideline:  If the location is not yet identified, please indicate if there are alternative locations under 
consideration or how the location is to be determined during project preparation] 
The sites impacted by the project, all of which are existing power generation plant facilities, include:  (a) 
TANESCO’s facilities located at Mwanza; (b) the Tegeta Power Plant (100MW); and (c) the Ubungo 
Power Plant (112MW).  It should be noted that an EIA and Environmental Audit have already been 
carried out at the Ubungo Power Plant under Credits 3569-TA and 2489-TA, and a summary of air quality 
monitoring could be provided by Songas.  Similarly, periodic reports on the environmental aspects of the 
Tegeta power plant, including air emissions, are prepared and should be reviewed and summarized by 
TANESCO.  Since existing, active generation sites would be used, there is no resettlement.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
[Guideline: Refer to Section 5 of PCN]
 
TANESCO, the implementing agency, has had significant experience in implementing World Bank-
financed projects, most recently the Power VI project which involved a sensitive environmental issue 
related to an endemic species.  TANESCO has a dedicated environmental unit which handles 
environmental aspects of TANESCO projects and also provides consulting services to other 
organizations.   
 
TANESCO’s environmental unit will carry out the environmental audit.  The main task will be the 
environmental assessment of the Mwanza site.  Terms of reference for an environmental audit of the 
project sites has been reviewed and cleared by World Bank environmental staff.  The objectives of the 
environmental audit are to help the Government of Tanzania determine the environmental liabilities and 
the need for remedial actions necessary to bring the facilities into compliance with World Bank Safeguard 
Policies and environmental guidelines, and to protect the health of workers and the general public living 
in the area and the environment.   
 
The audit report will be reviewed by World Bank specialists.  If the report reveals that there is a need for 
further capacity building, funds will be available under the PRSC project currently under preparation.  
These funds could be made available to TANESCO if required. 
 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[Y] Environmental 
Assessment
 (OP
/BP
 4.01) 
 
 
[N] Natural 
Habitats 
(OP
/BP
 4.04) 
 
 
[N] 
Pest Management (OP 4.09
) 
 
 
[N] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP
/BP
 4.12) 
 
 
[N] 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20
) 
 
 
[N] Forests 
(OP
/BP
 4.36) 
 
 
[N] 
Safety of Dams (OP
/BP
 4.37) 
 
 
[N] 
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03
) 
Page  3
 
 
 
 
[N] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP
/BP
/GP
 7.60)
*
 
 
 
[N] 
Projects on International Waterways (OP
/BP
/GP
 
7.50) 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Assessment Category 
[ ] A   [ X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS would 
be prepared.   
N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage ISDS.   
April 5, 2004 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  The 
specific studies and their timing
1
 should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
An environmental audit will be undertaken, with the objective of determining the environmental 
liabilities and to determine the need for remedial actions necessary to bring the project into 
compliance with World Bank Safeguards Policies and environmental guidelines.  Draft TORs for the 
environmental audit have been cleared by AFTS1.  The environmental audit are scheduled to 
commence in April 2004. 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
  
Task Team Leader: 
Karen Rasmussen 
Date 
Approved by: 
  
Regional Safeguards 
Coordinator: 
 Date 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Yusupha Crookes 
Date 
Comments 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
1
 
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially af
fected 
persons.
 
 
