Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3916 TA 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Emergency Power Supply Project) 
 
between 
 
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated    July 5th,  2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3916 TA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  July 5, 2004, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
May 4, 2004, describing a program of actions designed to address the Emergency (as 
hereinafter defined) (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of such program; 
(B)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;  
(C) 
the Project will be carried out by Tanzania Electric Supply Company 
Limited (TANESCO) (as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to TANESCO the proceeds of the Credit, 
as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter
 
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement 
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
TANESCO; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999)(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“Emergency” means the extraordinary drought of limited duration which 
occurred in 2003, and which has caused the water level in the Mtera dam to be below 696.5 
meters above sea level; 
(b) 
“Environmental Audit” means the environmental audit dated April 2004 and 
referred to in Part D of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“IPP” means “Independent Power Producer”, namely, Independent Power 
Tanzania Limited (IPTL), which is a company contracted by the Borrower to provide 
generating capacity;  
(d) 
“Kilowatt hour” or KWh” means the energy obtained by the power output of 
one kilowatt for the duration of one hour; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project  Agreement; 
(f) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
TANESCO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(g) 
“Project Month” means the thirty-day period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending thirty days thereafter (the First Project Month), and any thirty-day period 
beginning at the end of the First Project Month, or at the end of subsequent Project Months; 
(h) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(i) 
“Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and TANESCO, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
(j) 
“TANESCO” means “Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited”, a 
limited liability company incorporated and operating under the laws of the Borrower. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 30,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2005, or (i) such later date as the 
Association shall establish, or (ii) such earlier date as the Association shall establish as the 
date that the Emergency shall have terminated. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later or earlier date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15 
and November 15 commencing November 15, 2014, and ending May 15, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2024, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed 
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, 
shall cause TANESCO to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of TANESCO therein set forth, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable TANESCO to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to TANESCO 
under a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TANESCO, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association (Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement).  
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such later date as 
Page  7
-
6
-
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed 
to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and  
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance 
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by TANESCO pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall 
 
maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section audited for: (i) the interim reporting period (which interim 
reporting period covers the 4 months starting on the Effective Date); 
and (ii) the period covering the whole of the Project (or other period 
agreed to by the Association), in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than  45 days after the end of each above-mentioned period (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such period (or such other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements 
by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; 
and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:  
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at 
least one year after the Association has received the audit report for, 
or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, that: 
(a) 
TANESCO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that TANESCO 
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(c) 
The Memorandum and Articles of Association
 
governing the operations of 
TANESCO shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of TANESCO to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program 
or a significant part thereof shall be carried out. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and TANESCO.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to 
be furnished to the Association:   
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
TANESCO, and is legally binding upon TANESCO in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and TANESCO and is legally binding upon the Borrower and TANESCO in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The minister responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as 
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
Tanzania 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
TREASURY 
 41329 
  (255) 
222 
11 
77 
90 
 
Dar es Salaam  
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 64145 
(MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dar es 
Salaam, The United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By  /s/   Grey Mgonja 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/   Judy M. O’Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in  
SDR Equivalent)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)   Electric Energy 
purchases (KWh) from 
the IPP required for 
the Project 
 
23,200,000 100% 
(2)   Fuel required for the 
Project 
 
7,000,000 100% 
 _________ 
 
 
TOTAL 30,200,000 
======== 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals for an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,100,000, may 
be made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures before that date but after 
March 1, 2004. 
3. 
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the provisions 
of a letter issued by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance pursuant to Legal Notice of the 
Borrower, which provides for an exemption of taxes and customs duties levied in the 
territory of the Borrower on works, goods and services for this Project. If any change is 
made to said letter and Legal Notices which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties 
on such works, goods and services, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its emergency 
measures to avert a prolonged period of severe load-shedding and address the current power 
crisis through the financing of electric power purchases and fuel needed to maintain power 
supply at a level sufficient to prevent a severe contraction of the economy and sustain 
provision of social services during the Emergency. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon, from time to time, to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Emergency Electric Power
During the Emergency, assisting the Borrower in acquiring emergency electric energy 
from the IPP. 
Part B
:
Emergency Fuel
During the Emergency, financing utilization of productive capacity through the 
acquisition of fuel for TANESCO. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2005. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Main Provisions of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement
The Subsidiary Grant Agreement shall include, but without being limited to, 
provisions to the following effect: 
(a) 
the obligation of TANESCO to perform all of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
(b) 
products required for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the 
Association’s procedures as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.  
B. General
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
C. Monthly 
Reports
The Borrower shall cause TANESCO:  
(a)  
at the end of the First Project Month and thereafter not later than 30 days 
following the end of each Project Month, to submit a report on all matters relating to the 
progress of the Project; and 
(b)  
to act promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed 
necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement such measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance 
of the objectives of the Project. 
D. Environmental 
Audit
The Borrower shall cause the IPP and TANESCO to implement the Project in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Environmental Audit.   
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means all Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$4,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
Page  16
-
15
-
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
Page  17
-
16
-
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
