                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                             Report No: ICR0000152




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                              (IDA-39160)

                                                   ON A

                                                 CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.2 MILLION (US$43.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                               UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                                 FOR AN

                           EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                              June 26, 2007




Energy Group
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective July 26, 2005)

                          Currency Unit =        Tanzanian Shilling
                           TSh 1,140      =      US$ 1.00
                           US$1.00        =      TSh 1,140

                                 FISCAL YEAR
             Government                               July 1 to June 30
             TANESCO                                  January 1 to December 31

                         WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Kilowatt (kW)                            =            1,000 watts
Megawatt (MW)                            =            1,000 kilowatt
Gigawatt/hour (GWh)                      =            1 million kilowatt hour (kWh)
Kilometer (km)                           =            1,000 meters
Meter (m)                                =            39.3 inches
masl                                     =            meters above sea level

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DCA                Development Credit Agreement
EPC                Engineering Procurement and Construction Contract
EPP                Emergency Power Plant
EWURA              Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority
FMR                Financial Monitoring Report
FRP                Financial Recovery Plan
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
HFO                Heavy Fuel Oil
ICSID              International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes
IDA                International Development Association
IPP                Independent Power Producer
IPTL               Independent Power Tanzania Ltd.
ISR                Implementation Status Report
MEM                Ministry of Energy and Minerals
MOP                Memorandum of the President
O&M                Operations & Maintenance
PDO                Project Development Objective
PMU                Project Monitoring Unit
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SIDA               Swedish International Development Association
TANESCO            The Tanzania Electric Supply Company

T&D                          Transmission and Distribution
TSh                          Tanzanian Shilling




Vice President:                                                 Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
Country Director:                                               Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:                                                 Subramaniam V. Iyer
Project Team Leader:                                            Ralph Ake Karhammar
ICR Team Leader:                                                Mohua Mukherjee



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
              PROPOSED EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLY PROJECT

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

                                                   Contents

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design.................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 14
4. Assessment of Risk to the Development Outcome....................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 24
Annex 4. Detailed Implementation Challenges Faced by the Emergency Power Project 26
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 28
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 29
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 29
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 30
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................... 31
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................... 38
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents/References ..................................................... 39
MAP IBRD 33203


A. Basic Information

                                                                      Tanzania Emergency
Country:                Tanzania               Project Name:
                                                                      Power Supply
Project ID:             P074624                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-39160
ICR Date:               06/27/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                    Borrower:
                                                                      TANZANIA
Original Total          XDR 30.2 million
                                               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 30.2 million
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: TANESCO
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date    Revised/Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/02/2004    Effectiveness:        09/13/2004        09/13/2004
                     02/24/2004 *
                    Pre-appraisal was
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
                      converted to
                        appraisal
Approval:              06/08/2004    Midterm Review:                         11/09/2004
                                     Closing:              08/31/2005        07/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Significant
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                                     No                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                                     No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before                Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                             100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Mary Kathryn Hollifield             Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Subramaniam V. Iyer                 Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:       Ralph Ake Karhammar                 Karen T. Rasmussen
ICR Team Leader:           Mohua Mukherjee
ICR Primary Author:        Mohua Mukherjee



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objectives of this project are to assist the Government in implementing
its emergency measures to avert a prolonged period of severe load shedding, which
threatens to cripple economic activities and hinder the delivery of social services.




                                                 ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                              approval          Target       Completion or
                                             documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1:    Implement Government's Emergency Power Supply Project in order to reduce
                the impact of load shedding on GDP.
Value
(quantitative orEstimated at 6%

qualitative)    reduction.

Date achieved May 2005
                Load shedding fully avoided in 2004­05.


Comments        The Government's overall Emergency Power Supply Project was only partially

(including %    implemented. Severe load shedding became unavoidable in 2006 due to another

achievement)    drought in that year.

                Actual reduction = there was no reduction of GDP in 2005 due to load shedding.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                      Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Minimize or eliminate load shedding.
Value
(quantitative   Estimated at 27% of peak

or qualitative) demand.

Date achieved May 2005

Comments
(including %    Actual minimization of load shedding = full 27% estimate was minimized

achievement)    because load shedding did not occur in 2005.




                                               iii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
No.    Date ISR         Development             Implementation
       Archived          Objectives                 Progress          Disbursements
                                                                       (US$ million)
  1    12/20/2004        Satisfactory             Satisfactory              27.54
  2    05/12/2005        Satisfactory             Satisfactory              44.83
  3    12/29/2005    Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory              45.48
  4    06/30/2006    Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory              45.48

H. Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring    Board-     ISR Ratings at      Amount
                            Restructuring Disbursed at      Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)      Approved
               PDO Change                    Restructuring     Key Changes Made
                              DO       IP    in US$ million

I. Disbursement Profile




                                            iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1.    Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

a.      Country and Sector Background

Economic performance. Tanzania's economic growth was slow to gain momentum at
the launch of the reform process, but subsequently it averaged more than five percent
annually. Donors provided sizeable financial assistance in support of Tanzania's reform
program, which almost eliminated the Government's domestic financing needs. This in
turn led to lower interest rates and stimulated private sector growth. There was a strong
increase in nontraditional exports, mainly gold, in 2003/4, combined with a moderate
improvement in traditional exports. The availability of reliable and affordable electricity
supply was a key determinant of economic growth.

Power sector structure. The Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) was the
main, vertically integrated public sector power utility.        At appraisal, TANESCO's
interconnected grid system had an installed generation capacity of 773 MW, of which
557 MW (70 percent) was hydropower. TANESCO was dispatching hydropower ahead
of thermal generation because of the lower variable energy costs.

The high dependency of Tanzania's power system on hydro generation plants made the
country vulnerable to periods of drought. In a nondrought year (for example, 2002), fully
97 percent of the electricity was generated from hydropower. There had been several
major shortages of electricity in Tanzania in the decade preceding preparation of the
Emergency Power Supply Project, and in each case load shedding was precipitated by
poor rainfall in the predominantly hydroelectric system. In the 1994 Economic Survey, a
3.8 percent economic decline in industrial growth was documented, mainly because of
electricity shortages and subsequent load shedding that started in September 1994. In
1997, the overall rate of economic growth dropped to 3.3 percent from 4.2 percent the
previous year, due to electricity shortages.

Initially the Government's response was to install thermal generation operating on
imported liquid fuel. About 37 MW of thermal generation was installed in 1994. In 1995
an additional 75 MW of thermal generation was installed in the public sector, and a 100
MW thermal plant was commissioned in 2002 by the privately owned Independent Power
Tanzania Ltd (IPTL). However, the high cost of energy charges from these plants
relative to TANESCO's revenues led to considerable financial problems. The 2003/4
energy crisis that prevailed at the time of appraisal found TANESCO unable to afford the
cost of running the thermal plants on Jet A1 fuel and also unable to pay the energy
charges of the IPTL power plant. Recognizing this overdependence on hydropower, the
Government undertook the diversification of Tanzania's electricity generation sources by
soliciting private sponsors to develop indigenous natural gas resources. The Bank

                                              2


supported this approach through the Songo Songo Gas Development and Power
Generation Project (Credit 3569-TA). Under this project, the gas infrastructure system,
and conversion of the Ubungo power plant from Jet A1 fuel to gas-fired generation, was
scheduled for commissioning around July 2004, just a few months after appraisal of the
Emergency Power Supply Project. The availability of natural gas made it possible to
significantly reduce the energy charges for thermal power generation and the consequent
drain on TANESCO's cash flow.

Impact of the 2003 drought on the power sector. TANESCO maintained a high level
of hydropower generation throughout the first half of 2003, meeting 83 percent of the
annual load with hydropower generation. However, after the poor rains in October 2003,
it also negotiated with Songas to operate two of its spare turbines on expensive Jet A1
fuel starting in December 2003, to ensure continuing electricity supply.

Having exhausted its cash reserves, in November 2003 TANESCO requested financial
assistance from the Government. The Government provided a cash infusion of about
US$43 million equivalent, and TANESCO spent about US$8 million per month on Jet
A1 fuel as well as the purchase of energy from the IPTL power plant. Without assistance
in covering the cost of imported fuel and energy purchases, TANESCO would have had
to implement load shedding of about 891 GWh during March­December 2004. By one
estimate, the cost to the economy of this unserved energy could have been 6 percent of
GDP.

The Government's Power Sector Reforms.            The Government had been implementing
reforms since the late 1990s.       The power sector reform agenda had three primary
objectives. The first objective was to diversify power generation sources to reduce the
heavy reliance on hydro. Specifically, generation of power from indigenous gas sources
was promoted whenever possible, to shift away from more expensive thermal generation
sources such as jet fuel or diesel. The second reform objective was the promotion of
increased private sector participation in the expansion of electricity services. The third
objective was improving TANESCO's commercial performance, initially through the
engagement of a management contractor in May 2002. Between May 2002 and May
2005, TANESCO's billing collection rate (excluding settlement of prior Government
arrears) improved from 76 percent to 92 percent. In addition, staff was reduced by 1,428
to 4,991 employees; TANESCO paid down T Sh 33 billion of outstanding commercial
debt; system losses declined from 27 percent to 24 percent; administration and overhead
costs were reduced by about 20 percent and TANESCO has obtained more competitive
prices from suppliers; and TANESCO has obtained an improved credit rating, which
enabled it to access the domestic capital market. However, systems losses have remained
at a relatively high level, in part due to system overload and lack of funds to implement
network relief projects such as replacement of overloaded transformers and faulty meters.

Emergency plan. In December 2003, at the height of the hydro crisis, the Government's
priority was two-fold: (i) to implement immediate measures to avert an impending
energy crisis and an economic crisis, and (ii) to ensure generation capacity for future
energy requirements at least cost. The challenge at the outset of the 2003 drought was

                                               3


the timely implementation of the generation expansion plan. The combined emergency
and generation expansion plan required the following actions:

   An urgent injection of cash to finance TANESCO's emergency power purchase needs
   in order to avert an energy and resulting economic crisis.

   Implementation of a permanent gas-based generation expansion plan for future energy
    requirements at least cost including:

    -   Two additional 36 MW gas-based generation units at Ubungo, one in October
        2004, and the other in January 2005. The new thermal plant was to be financed
        by Songas, a private gas company, in the amount of US$44 million for capital
        costs.

    -   The conversion of the Songas Ubungo power plant from Jet A1 fuel to natural
        gas.   The conversion was scheduled for July 2004, and financing had been
        included in the original design of the Songo Songo Project.

    -   The conversion of IPTL from heavy fuel oil (HFO) to natural gas, starting with
        two of the 10 turbines, once the conversion of the Songas Ubungo power plant to
        natural gas was completed.       The conversion of the first two turbines was
        scheduled for early 2005, to be followed by a phased conversion over a six-month
        period. The conversion of IPTL to natural gas was consistent with the objective
        of least-cost power generation of the Songo Songo Project and was to be financed
        by a new component (Part D) added to the Songo Songo Project.

Government's position on tariffs at appraisal. Prior to Board presentation of the
Emergency Power Supply Project, a Cabinet Paper covering the extension of the
management contractor's performance-based management contract, as well as electricity
tariff increases, was approved by the Government on April 20, 2004. Effective May 1,
2004, TANESCO's Board of Directors approved a tariff increase of 4.3 percent, based in
part on lowering the lifeline tariff block from 100 kWh to 50 kWh. TANESCO would
continue to review the level of tariffs on a six-month basis, and would modify tariff levels
up to 5 percent annually, which was within the authority of the Board of Directors. A
comprehensive tariff study was proposed for financing under the Songo Songo Project.
The study would develop a mechanism for indexing tariffs, among other things, and
would examine additional measures (including price signals conveyed to customers) to
maintain tariffs at a level necessary to ensure the sector's financial sustainability.

b.      Rationale for IDA Involvement

Emergency funding. The rationale for IDA involvement to provide emergency funding
for procuring thermal power and Jet A1 fuel was to help TANESCO minimize load
shedding and the resulting negative economic impact. Also, other donors involved in the
energy sector indicated their preference for financing investments rather than recurrent
expenditures, or for providing assistance to the social sectors through budgetary support.

                                               4



Reducing the cost of thermal power procurement. Conversion of the Ubungo turbines
from imported Jet A1 fuel to indigenous gas took place under the Songo Songo Project.
Similarly, the rationale for IDA financing of the IPTL conversion was continuing
assistance for TANESCO's implementation of its least-cost power generation plan. The
IPTL conversion was to help TANESCO transition out of the power supply emergency,
reduce the cost of energy supply, and achieve financial sustainability within two years.

IDA support for the Government plan. Although the Bank had considered using part
of the US$80 million savings in the Songo Songo Project to fund TANESCO's
emergency power supply needs in the short term, it nonetheless felt that a standalone
operation would be a more appropriate instrument for several reasons. In September
2003, the Government had already requested the restructuring of the Songo Songo
Project to finance the urgent rehabilitation of TANESCO's transmission and distribution
(T&D) systems estimated at about US$55.4 million. This request for upgrading the
network was related to loss reduction and revenue increase, and therefore fit into the
financial recovery plan for TANESCO. The Government also requested that IDA finance
the conversion of IPTL from HFO to natural gas for another US$20.2 million out of the
Songo Songo savings.

While the Bank was favorable, in principle, to the Government's request for emergency
assistance, it considered that it would be essential to embark on implementation of
additional reform measures and investments in transmission and distribution to help
move TANESCO towards a financially and commercially viable operation                  These
measures, in recognition of the higher power purchase costs faced by TANESCO, were
(i) regular tariff increases, (ii) a financial recovery plan, and (iii) the extension of the
management contract for two years to help make the efficiency improvements. The
Bank, however, made a further amendment of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
of the Songo Songo Project (Credit 3569-TA) to use most of the savings for investments
in transmission and distribution, conditional on an agreement on tariff increases to help
TANESCO's financial recovery.

IDA assistance to the Government's plan was therefore designed as follows:

- A standalone Emergency Power Supply Project would finance TANESCO's short-
term power supply needs for US$43.8 million, from March 2004 through February 2005.


-   Songo Songo Project savings would be used for funding the IPTL conversion from
    HFO to natural gas, for US$20.2 million. Accordingly a proposed amendment to the
    Songo Songo Credit Agreement was presented to the Board concurrently with the
    Memorandum of the President (MOP) for the Emergency Power Supply Project in
    June 2004.

                                              5



Rationale for combining the emergency operation and the IPTL conversion in the
document presented to the Board. The Emergency Project and the amended Songo
Songo DCA comprised the package of Bank support to the emergency situation. IPTL
was to be used at maximum capacity during the emergency period (March 2004­
February 2005). Its conversion from imported diesel to indigenous gas firing could take
place only after that period (since conversion would require a shutdown) and could not
therefore be included as part of the Emergency Project. Following Board approval in
June 2004, the DCA of the Songo Songo Project was amended in September 2004 to
include the new component of IPTL conversion as Part D of the Songo Songo Project.
Procurement arrangements in the DCA were amended to permit sole sourcing of the
engineering design work with Wartsila, the manufacturer of the equipment and operator
of the IPTL plant, as well as direct contracting of the conversion also to Wartsila.

1.2.    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
(as approved)

The Emergency PDO. The Emergency PDO of the Emergency Power Supply Project
(Credit 3916-TA), as stated in the MOP, was to "assist the Government in implementing
its emergency measures to avert a prolonged period of severe load shedding which could
have crippled economic activities and hindered the delivery of social services."

Key indicators. The outcome indicator of the Emergency Project was to help reduce the
impact of load shedding on GDP by about 6 percent of GDP. The intermediate outcome
as indicated in the project was to minimize or eliminate load shedding by about 27
percent of projected energy requirements in 2004.

1.3.    Revised PDO, Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification
(as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO and key indicators remained unchanged.

1.4.    Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describing the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The project's direct beneficiaries included electricity customers, the productive private
sector, wage earners in the formal and informal services, and social service deliverers and
users. IDA assistance was also perceived as helping to maintain the momentum of the
power sector reform program through the restructuring of TANESCO. Severe load
shedding and massive tariff increases to fully recover all additional thermal generation
costs could negatively affect progress towards the reform program.

                                                 6



1.5.     Original Components (as approved)


Table 1: Summary of Project Activities and Timetable


 Objectives      Components         Activities       Timetable   Amount       IDA Credit

Assist        Emergency         - Purchase of Jet July 2004
Government    financing         A1 fuel for                      US$43.8 Emergency Project
avert load                      Ubungo Plant                     million (Credit 3916-TA)
shedding                        from IPTL

                                - Purchase of     March 2004
                                electricity (kWh) through
                                                  February 2005



Contingency plan for emergency power generation.                During project preparation,
TANESCO had prepared bidding documents for the procurement of emergency power
generation using leased gas turbines at foreign-based emergency power plants (EPPs)..
This contingency plan was prepared in case of continued poor hydro conditions or other
compelling reasons. During negotiations, IDA agreed to consider favorably a
Government request to reallocate any remaining Credit funds to cover the cost of this
additional emergency power generation if need be (Minutes of Negotiations, April 26­
May 4, 2004).

Credit effectiveness. The Credit became effective on September 13, 2004. The time lag
between Bank approval and effectiveness was due to a delay in executing and ratifying
the subsidiary grant agreement between the Government and TANESCO, which was a
condition of effectiveness. However, this delay did not impact TANESCO's ability to
purchase electricity from IPTL prior to effectiveness. This is because the Bank had
agreed to finance retroactively up to US$8.8 million, or 20 percent of the Credit, the
maximum allowed under OP/BP 8.50 without requiring policy exception.


1.6.     Revised Components

In June 2004, the Government requested to use the emergency contingency plan agreed to
during negotiations to procure 40 MW of leased gas-based generation plant, instead of Jet
A1 fuel for Ubungo, to meet TANESCO's requirements. This entailed reallocating
US$10.4 million initially allocated to purchase Jet A1 fuel. The Government sent the
formal request in November 2004. The Country Director approved the amendment to the
DCA and the extension of the closing date from August 31, 2005, to August 31, 2006, on
November 12, 2004. At the time, US$23.1 million, or 53 percent of the Credit, had been
disbursed, including US$9.1 million retroactive financing for the purchase of electricity
from IPTL as of March 2004.

                                                 7


However, in February 2005, following two unsuccessful bids to procure the leased gas-
based generation plant, the Government requested that all remaining funds from the IDA
Credit be allocated to buy electricity from IPTL. The project gave its no-objection during
a supervision mission in February 2005 to reallocate US$8.4 million for the purchase of
additional generation from IPTL. Hence, in the end, the IDA Credit was utilized
exclusively to purchase thermal electricity from IPTL and not for the purchase of any fuel
requirements for Ubungo nor for leased emergency power generation.

Table 2: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of Credit 3916-TA (in US$ million)

                                                                                       % of
                                                              Amount of the      Expenditures to
                 Category of Expenditures                    Credit Allocated      be Financed

 1. Original DCA as of July 5, 2004 (before Amendment of November 12, 2004)

 1. Jet A1 fuel (Ubungo Plant)                                     10.4                 100
 2. IPTL power plant ­ kWh                                         33.4                 100
 TOTAL                                                             43.8


 2. DCA amended as of November 12, 2004

 1. Electric energy purchases (kWh) from the IPP required          43.8                100%
 for the Project
 TOTAL                                                             43.8

1.7.     Other Significant Changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

None.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

a.       Soundness of the Background Analysis Supporting the Project

The project took into account lessons learned from other emergency projects in the Africa
Region. Lessons learned were exemplified by a simple project design with few contracts,
rapid preparation and appraisal, timely completion of bid documents and procurement
procedures, a dedicated implementation unit involving TANESCO's senior management,
and a clear set of mitigation steps that were thought to ensure that future droughts would
not lead to a power sector emergency. Specifically, agreement was reached with the

                                                     8


Government on an emergency power plan aimed at reducing the sector's vulnerability to
future droughts by implementing a permanent gas-based generation expansion plan. The
plan also included measures to make TANESCO a financially viable entity within two
years, including helping raise tariffs to cost recovery levels by implementing biannual
increases starting in May 2004, and extending TANESCO's management contract for two
years until end-2006.

However, given the need to move quickly to the Board on the emergency operation, it
turned out that the expected timeframe to implement the Government's plan was not
adequately estimated. In particular, the tariff adjustment actions had not been fully
agreed with the TANESCO Board of Directors and the Government by the time the
Emergency Project went to the Board.

b.      Relevance of the Risks Identified and Effectiveness of Mitigation Measures

The main risks identified, together with the mitigating measures and their eventual
impact, are summarized in the Table 3. In general, the risks that applied to the parallel
measures to be financed under the Songo Songo Project (and not the Emergency Project)
were identified correctly. Mitigating measures were also proposed, though they did not
prove to be sufficient.

Table 3: Risks and Mitigating Measures


                        Risks                                 Proposed Mitigating Measures

 Delayed execution of Government's emergency program

   Delays by Songas in the installation, financing,    Provide legal, technical and financial advisory
   and commissioning of:                               assistance to the Government and TANESCO

   - the fifth 36 MW gas turbine at the Ubungo         under Credit 3569-TA

     power plant scheduled for October 2004

   - the sixth 36 MW gas turbine at the Ubungo
     power plant scheduled for January 2005


 Conversion of IPTL to gas-fired operation

   Delays in converting the IPTL power plant to        Provide legal and technical assistance to the
   gas-fired operation, in order to end the financial  Government and TANESCO to review the
   drain on TANESCO of paying for importing fuel       contractual arrangements, secure the
                                                       Government's interest in the enhanced IPTL
                                                       power plant, and ensure proper oversight of the
                                                       technical aspects of the conversion



c.      Assessment of Project Design and Adequacy of Government's Commitment

The Emergency Power Supply Project. The emergency operation helped to mitigate
the effects of the drought during 2004 and 2005 by providing financing to TANESCO for
emergency power procurement and prevented major load shedding during the project
implementation period.

                                               9


Sustainability. The project design also included sustainability actions to be funded
under the Songo Songo Project, but these were too optimistic and did not materialize.
Some of the legal disputes that delayed the gas conversion of IPTL, for example, could
possibly have been anticipated at the time of appraisal. The net result is that the benefits
from the successful implementation of the Emergency Project could not be sustained.
However, it is also the case that actions aimed at restoring the viability of the sector and
at supporting the emergency intervention, with financing from the Songo Songo Project,
did not have the full support of Government. This was particularly so with respect to the
required tariff increases.     Also, unresolved legal issues have so far prevented the
conversion of IPTL to gas fired generation.

Recent surveys, including the 2004 Investment Climate Assessment, indicate that
inadequate electricity supply was one of the major constraints faced by industry in
Tanzania and still remains a major impediment to the start-up of new businesses. The
problems in the electricity sector and the inability to supply reliable power at reasonable
cost have affected economic growth over the last few years. The Government's
emergency recovery plan for the power sector has so far not delivered the desired results.

Demand-side management study. During project preparation, the Bank suggested that
TANESCO explore the feasibility of implementing specific measures to also reduce
demand in the short term. TANESCO was to undertake a quick economic assessment of
selective load shedding and implement agreed actions, with funding through the
restructured Songo Songo Project. The study was a dated covenant of the Project
Agreement of the Emergency Project, to be provided by October 2004. Although terms
of reference for the study were prepared and the process of selecting consultants carried
out, the study was not undertaken.

On balance, design and quality at entry for the Emergency Project was good, and the
project delivered on its narrow objectives, which were to fund the procurement of power
to avoid load shedding.

2.2.    Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, midterm review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

a.      Project Implementation Period

The original project completion date was February 2005, while the original closing date
was August 31, 2005. These dates were extended by one year from the original schedule
following project restructuring to drop the financing of Jet A1 fuel and allocate all
proceeds to purchase power from IPTL. However, by July 2005, IDA funds for the
Emergency Project had been fully disbursed. Thus, the effective completion and closing
dates of the Emergency Project are July 31, 2005.

                                               10



b.      Midterm Review

The midterm review, which was also the first supervision mission, was undertaken in
November 2004. The findings were positive with respect to project implementation of
the Emergency Project and, in particular, in regard to procurement and disbursements.
However, the midterm review does not document any discussion on progress in initiating
the institutional studies or on the issues related to delays in the gas conversion of IPTL.

c.      Implementation Issues

The main implementation issues in the components funded by the Emergency Power
Supply Project were problems related to the procurement of Jet A1 fuel and leased, gas-
based EPP (see Annex 4). Other related components, such as gas conversion of IPTL,
also experienced implementation difficulties, but they are outside the scope of this
project.   More specifically, a dated covenant in the Project Agreement under the
Emergency Power Supply Project--to carry out a demand side management study--was
not met. Views on the impact of the Emergency Project have also been influenced by the
subsequent drought of 2006, which resulted in severe load shedding for most of the year.
The drought of 2006 and a poorly managed energy crisis in that year resulted in lower
than projected growth in 2006.


Impact on TANESCO's finances. TANESCO's financial problems were caused by the
following:

   (i) Generation cost. TANESCO's cash position deteriorated tremendously due to
        the use of expensive power from IPTL and the additional capacity charges from
        the two independent power producers (IPPs), IPTL and Songas, for which the
        current tariff does not make provision. The Government is not paying the full
        capacity charges of TANESCO. Government contribution towards the IPTL costs
        amounts to T Sh 1.5 billion/month, which is less than 50 percent of the IPTL
        capacity charge.

   (ii) Retail tariffs.   Since 2003, the cost of sales exceeded sales and revenues. This
        was primarily due to generation from IPTL and capacity charges for IPTL and
        Songas. Tariffs were not adjusted to reflect the cost of producing electricity and
        variations in cost over time, and the cost of supplying each customer. Tariffs that
        do not recover costs was are and will be for some time the primary flaw in
        TANESCO's finances. More details on the implementation stage are in Annex 4.

                                             11



2.3.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

a.      M&E Design

For the design of the M&E system, the project identified two types of monitoring
indicators during appraisal: performance indicators and output indicators.

Performance indicators. The project identified five performance monitoring indicators
that were included in Schedule 3 of the Project Agreement:

   1.   Monthly projected and actual total hydropower output (kWh)
   2.   Monthly projected and actual IPP output (kWh)
   3.   Monthly projected and actual Ubungo power plant output (kWh) until gas supply
        is available
   4.   Planned and actual commissioning dates for two additional 36 MW gas turbines
   5.   Mtera reservoir level at the end of each month (meters above sea level [masl])

In addition, indicators 1, 2, and 5 were included in the Financial Monitoring Report
(FMR) as part of progress reporting.

Output indicators. Output indicators were also part of the FMR and included contract
cost for fuel and electricity, and variances between planned and actual contract
completion date.

Financial performance indicators. The project did not include monitoring indicators to
assess the financial performance of TANESCO. Although IDA supervision missions
undertook periodic assessments of TANESCO's performance, in addition to the physical
indicators, the inclusion of financial performance indicators would have provided a
convenient tool to assess TANESCO's financial performance or the extent of its
deterioration.   TANESCO's operating and financial performance over 2002­05 is
presented in Annex 3 as part of the economic and financial analysis for the ICR.

Outcome indicators. The project's outcome indicator was the extent to which the
emergency operation helped reduce the impact of load shedding on GDP. The baseline
value was 6 percent of GDP lost due to power cuts, at the time of appraisal.   The project
fully succeeded in averting load shedding during the period coinciding with project
disbursements and it is possible that the team therefore considered "zero GDP lost due to
load shedding", as stated in the project indicators. However, although the project
development objective of "averting a period of severe load shedding" was fully met
during the period coinciding with disbursements under the project, the objective of
"assisting the Government in implementing its emergency measures" was only partially
met.

Tanzania's economy grew by 6.8 percent in 2005 and is estimated to have grown by 5.8
percent in 2006. Almost all of the 1 percent drop in GDP growth is attributable to the

                                                12


load shedding from the power shortage in 2006, based on sectoral growth information for
the two years. Sectoral data indicates that the GDP decline was driven by slowdown in
the manufacturing, industry, and service sectors, as well as of course the agriculture
sector, which was hard hit by the drought. Using this analysis undertaken by the Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) team for 2005 and 2006, it is concluded that the
Emergency Project disbursements of 2004­05 added 1 percent to GDP compared to 2005
GDP had the project not been undertaken. In other words, the 6.8 percent growth rate of
2005 would likely to have been 5.8 percent without the support of the Emergency Project,
as it was for 2006, when the same conditions prevailed throughout the economy.

b.      M&E Implementation

Based on the four complete set of FMRs on file for the months of September, October,
November, and December 2004, data were collected by TANESCO and reported in the
respective FMRs (see Annex 2). Data do not seem to have been collected for the
subsequent FMRs.

c.      Utilization of the M&E System

Utilization of the system was moderately satisfactory.        The four FMRs were well
produced; however, they were discontinued.

2.4.    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

a.      Safeguard Compliance

The project was rated "C" for environmental assessment purposes. The project did not
involve any resettlement or compensation since it made use of existing facilities.
Safeguard issues associated with the project included the air quality/emissions and noise
abatement for IPTL and Songas, which were covered in the environmental covenants of
the Songo Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project. The project was
executed in compliance with the Bank's Environmental Safeguard Policies and
Environment, Health, and Safety Guidelines with respect to the functioning of Ubungo
and the emergency power plants.

b.      Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement

Procurement issues. According to the Bank's procurement guidelines, any increase in
an initial contract amount exceeding 15 percent requires mandatory prior review by the
Regional Procurement Manager (RPM) or Operations Procurement Review Committee
(OPRC). The Bank's procurement guidelines also require that this prior review and
approval be given by the same departments, the RPM or OPRC, which reviewed and
approved the initial contract. In the case of this project, OPRC had given its no-objection
to disburse up to US$32.2 million out of the total IDA Credit amount of US$43.8 million

                                            13


on April 7, 2004, to buy power from IPTL.1 However, there is no record on file to
indicate the project sought OPRC's prior review and clearance before giving its no-
objection to reallocate the amount of US$8.4 million to purchase additional generation
output from IPTL in February 2005. Nevertheless, the expenditures were in line with the
overall project objectives and were disbursed under a category previously approved by
OPRC for US$32.2 million. Therefore, the project team likely felt that it was most
important not to create further delays, given the emergency nature of the project.

TANESCO staff training. Training for procurement staff was financed under Credit
3569-TA, on Power Purchase Agreements and to enhance their procurement capacity for
leased, gas-fired generation plants. The same project organized a half day of hands-on
training regarding Procurement Data Management and Record Keeping for TANESCO
staff, thereby helping to address weaknesses in the record-keeping system.

Financial Covenants

Financial covenants of the DCA. The financial covenant of the DCA required the
Government to submit the Project's records and accounts (i) within four months starting
on March 31, 2004 through November 30, 2004, for the interim reporting period, and (ii)
within 45 days of the closing date for the period covering the whole of the Project,
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Government submitted to
IDA the interim audit report on June 14, 2005. The Government submitted the Project's
final audit report on March 29, 2007, for the period December 2004­July 2006. Both
audits were unqualified. Lastly, the Project was not formally closed until February 2007.

Financial covenants of the Project Agreement.              The covenants of the Project
Agreement required TANESCO to submit to the Bank (i) its annual financial statements,
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within six months after the end
of each calendar year; (ii) FMRs no later than 30 days following the end of each Project
month; and (iii) the Project's records and accounts as stipulated above. TANESCO
submitted its annual financial statements audited by independent auditors for the calendar
years of 2004 and 2005 in June 2005 and March 2007, respectively.              TANESCO
submitted the FMRs, although there are only four complete reports on file, covering the
period September­December 2004.

Compliance with financial covenants as recorded in the Audit Report Compliance
System (ARCS) and the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs). There were two types
of covenants recorded in the ARCS and shown in the ISRs: the entity's financial
statements and the Project's records and accounts. The ARCS indicated there was no
overdue entity financial statement, although TANESCO submitted its audited financial
statements for the calendar year of 2005 in March 2007. The ARCS showed that the
audit of the Project's records and accounts was overdue by three months or more, as
recorded in the last ISR dated June 29, 2006.


1OPRC Case Recommendation and Review Report, April 7, 2004.

                                                14


2.5.    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, O&M arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next
phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

A proposal is being formulated to use about US$45 million of the Songo Songo Project
savings to buy down the cost of units 5 and 6 at the Ubungo plant, which were originally
financed by Songas under the recently approved Output Based Disbursement scheme. In
addition, an approximately US$105 million investment loan, mainly for urgently needed
rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution network, and including a smaller
component for rural electrification, is scheduled for appraisal in July 2007. These two
operations would be presented to the Bank Management and the Board and form part of a
comprehensive financial recovery plan for TANESCO, which would help it to become
financially and commercially sustainable.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1.    Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Rating: Significant

The key project objective as stated in the MOP--"to avert a prolonged period of severe
load shedding, which would cripple economic activities and hinder social services"--
continued to be a high priority for the country throughout the two-year implementation
period from July 2004­July 2006. Continuity of electricity service remained a critical
input for maintaining economic growth as well as for the uninterrupted provision of
social services.

3.2.    Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Load shedding was successfully avoided throughout 2005. However, measures to sustain
TANESCO's financial viability and ability to procure electric power were not taken as
anticipated.    Studies on tariff and demand-side management have not yet been carried
out. However, most of the thermal generation capacity is now using domestic natural
gas, and prospects for converting the ITPL units as well over the next few years are
positive.

                                                    15



3.3.     Efficiency
(net present value/economic rate of return; cost effectiveness--for example, unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons; and financial rate of return)

Rating: Not rated

The IDA Credit helped with TANESCO's cash flow, as the tariffs were not adjusted to
take into account the high incremental cost of thermal generation from IPTL.

Table 4: Summary of Ratings


     Objective of the Emergency Project          Relevance     Efficacy     Efficiency  Outcome

 Assist the Government in implementing its
 emergency measures to avert a prolonged         Significant  Moderately    Not Rated   Moderately
 period of severe load shedding, which could                  Satisfactory              Satisfactory
 have crippled economic activities and hindered
 the delivery of social services




3.4.     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project development objective of "averting a period of severe load shedding" had
been fully met during the period coinciding with disbursements under the project.
However, the objective of "assisting the Government in implementing its emergency
measures" was only partially met. It is recognized that general views on the impact of
the Emergency Project are influenced by the subsequent drought of 2006, which resulted
in severe load shedding for most of that year. This once again highlighted the fact that
the emergency measures proposed by Government to the Bank at the time of appraisal of
the Emergency Project had not taken root. However, since the implementation of those
measures were funded under a different project, that is not the subject of the present ICR.
Rather, the rating is heavily weighted on the project objective of the Emergency Power
Supply Project, to help with power supply during the drought crisis period.                     That
objective was fully achieved. The power was procured and averted an economic crisis
during the project implementation period. But one specific activity can be linked to the
rating, which is a dated covenant in the Project Agreement under the Emergency Project
to carry out a demand-side management study. That study was not undertaken. Hence on
balance this project is rated Moderately Satisfactory in terms of Overall Outcome.


3.5.     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

a.       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable.

                                                16



b.      Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The institutional impact of the project is minimal. The demand management study,
although a dated covenant, was not undertaken, and neither were studies undertaken to
optimize the management of Mtera reservoir and the tariff study.

c.      Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.

3.6.    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.


4. Assessment of Risk to the Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

The main risk to the development outcome of the Emergency Project is the reoccurrence
of load shedding. Due to unusually good rains in late 2006 and early 2007, the Mtera
reservoir level has been restored to full capacity. However, in the absence to date of a
regional transmission infrastructure, the country's vulnerability to droughts is likely to
remain high, notwithstanding implementation of new IPPs. In regard to TANESCO's
finances, in agreements with IDA and the IMF, the Government and TANESCO have
agreed to submit to the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority (EWURA), by
end of July 2007, a tariff request to ensure that TANESCO moves onto a path to recover
its operational costs. Still, in the absence of a sustained commitment by the Government
to regularly implement cost-reflective tariffs, tariffs and financial recovery will remain
the biggest issue for the utility.

Assessment of risk to the development outcome looks beyond achievement of the PDO
and incorporates the sustainability aspect of the benefits financed with the IDA funds.
This requires consideration of the Government and Bank's overall strategy to deal with
the emergency. This strategy did contain elements to ensure sustainability beyond the
disbursement period of the emergency IDA funds. Such elements included the demand-
side management study; lowering power costs through the conversion of IPTL to use
indigenous gas; and investing in the rehabilitation of TANESCO's transmission and
distribution network to reduce losses of high-cost power before it could be billed for and
collected. These "parallel activities" were financed out of Songo Songo Project savings.
Since these parallel activities were not implemented by the end of the Emergency Project,
and also the drought continued for another year after the disbursement period, it was very
clear that the benefits had not been sustainable after the averted load shedding of 2005,
and could not be averted in 2006 when the project funding was no longer available.

                                                17



In spite of the lack of completed parallel activities during the project disbursement
period, (i) there has been continuity of dialogue in all areas identified here, (ii) the
Government's strategy to emerge from the crisis has not changed, and (iii) activities have
advanced enough for the Bank to be currently appraising a new project that proposes to
provide support for the same Government program. The new project contains
substantially the same elements as the Emergency Project, such as lowering the cost of
power purchased from an IPP; investing in loss reduction; adjusting tariffs; supporting
access expansion as long as it is not loss-making to the utility; and designing and
implementing a demand-side management plan.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation, and outcome issues)

5.1.    Bank Performance

a.      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Emergency Power Supply Project was prepared quickly in response to substantial
flexibility from Bank management (two months from Appraisal to Board), had a simple
design with minimal conditionality, and provided for sufficient flexibility in the
disbursement categories to enable purchase of either imported fuel or electricity supplied
by an IPP. In addition, the provision of up to 20 percent for retroactive financing enabled
the Government to proceed with the purchase of electricity with its own funds prior to
effectiveness.

b.      Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Supervision of the Emergency Power Supply Project covered a two-year period from July
2004 until July 31, 2006, and can be divided into two phases:

(i) July 2004­June 2005. During this period, Credit funds were fully disbursed and the
immediate objective of the emergency Credit--averting load shedding--was achieved.
A midterm review was undertaken in November 2004. However, the implementation
timetable for the sustainability action--gas conversion of IPTL--although not feasible as
scheduled, was not revised. (This action was to be supported through the partial
restructuring of Songo Songo that was part of the overall package presented to the
Board.) , The demand management study, which was a dated covenant of the Project

                                             18


Agreement, was not started. There was no mention of why the study was not launched or
when it was expected to commence.

When purchase of Jet A1 fuel proved impossible, the Bank responded quickly to the
government's request to amend the DCA to include funding for additional emergency
generation from EPP through leasing arrangements, as part of the contingency plan.
Attempts by TANESCO to secure this emergency power, however, were unsuccessful,
leaving only the option of buying additional power generation from IPTL. For its
flexibility in responding to a continuously changing situation, and seeking management
approval for timely restructuring, while also not following up on the dated covenant in
the Project Agreement with TANESCO, overall supervision is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

There was also compliance with the Credit's main covenants, in particular the first
external audit of the Project's accounts, although the audit was late.

The ISR of May 12, 2005, reflected a generally positive trend, but management noted
that `implementation of the government's emergency power program has been poor,
including the conversion of IPTL to gas-firing."        Management also noted that one
outstanding covenant, to undertake the demand management study, required follow-up.
However, no follow-up was undertaken.

(ii) July 2005­July 2006.       With funds from the Credit fully disbursed by July 2005,
supervision of the Emergency Power Project consisted of ensuring compliance with
financial and performance reporting obligations. In the ISR of June 30, 2005, the PDO
was downgraded from Satisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory as a result of the lack of
progress in implementing the emergency program.

c.      Compliance with Fiduciary Aspects

The Credit closed on July 31, 2006, with the second external audit on the Project's
records and accounts still to be undertaken. This audit was received on March 29, 2007.
To the extent that IDA funds were fully disbursed by July 31, 2005, the Credit should
have been closed officially at that date and the audit undertaken then.

d.      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

On balance, the two ratings for design and supervision were combined for an overall
Satisfactory rating for Bank performance.

Bank performance was Satisfactory at Quality of Entry (Project Design) because
management and the team recognized the emergency and developed a flexible and
responsive approach to support the Government. Bank performance was Moderately
Satisfactory for Quality of Supervision because possibly not enough time was spent to
reach agreement with the Government on assisting it with the implementation of the

                                             19


emergency plan, which consisted of the full range of parallel activities proposed to be
funded by Songo Songo Project savings.

5.2.    Borrower Performance

a.      Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government drew up an emergency plan in addition to the earlier reform program
that it was implementing. The Government approved tariff increases of 4.5 percent and 5
percent in May 2004 and January 2005, respectively. However, further tariff increases
during Project implementation fell short of what was required for TANESCO to be
financially sustainable, given the costs of power from IPTL. Nevertheless, dialogue with
the Bank was moving in the right direction.

b.      Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: TANESCO

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

TANESCO was in a difficult position with negative cash flow prospects and no control
over tariff increases.

The financial covenants of the Project Agreement required TANESCO to submit to the
Bank its annual financial statements within six months after the end of each calendar
year, and the Project's records and accounts within 45 days of the Project's closing date,
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.         TANESCO was late in
submitting its audited accounts for 2005 and the final audit of the Project's records and
accounts.

c.      Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Several activities were attempted by the Borrower, including (i) short-term purchase of
Jet A1 fuel for Ubungo generators prior to natural gas availability at Songas. while
negotiating enough flexibility into the legal agreements in case the jet fuel purchase had
to be dropped (which it was); (ii) the attempt to procure emergency leased capacity
(which did not work out); and (iii) the eventual switch to all procurement from IPTL.
Borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory instead of Satisfactory, however,
because of nonfulfillment of critical components of the Borrower's emergency plan
during the project period, and delayed submission of final project audits.

                                               20




6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

A key lesson learned is that, in certain cases, an emergency operation can be an
appropriate vehicle to carry forward sector dialogue while averting the collapse of the
power sector due to natural or other crises. However, an emergency operation should be
part of a wider dialogue or strategy, and subject to an overall understanding reached with
Government on what is expected to be achieved during and after the completion of the
emergency operation.

The Bank should consider developing a methodology for estimating monitoring
indicators to gauge the efficacy of emergency interventions. This could include proxy
indicators to track the cost to the economy of load shedding and also the benefits of
avoided load shedding. These measures should preferably be indicative in nature since in
an emergency it is usually not possible to establish an appropriate baseline.

Demand side management measures can be an important complement to emergency
power interventions. If the Government is well supported by the Bank, such measures
(when prudently implemented) can reduce the need for across-the-board load shedding at
a later stage. Reduced load shedding can help minimize unnecessarily high economic
costs from the power shortage.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

7.1.    Borrower/Implementing Agencies

Borrower's ICR is attached in Annex 8.

The Borrower's ratings vary from the Bank's, with the exception of the sustainability
issue. The Borrower rates the project as having modest sustainability, although, perhaps
surprisingly, considers that institutional development impact is highly likely.

The Bank receives a highly satisfactory rating from the Borrower due to its great
flexibility and quick response time.

The Project is rated Unsatisfactory at entry, but upon further reading it seems that the
Borrower may be referring to the difficult circumstances that prevailed, necessitating a
series of changes e.g. jet fuel to emergency power plants, to all IPTL purchase.

Overall, it is clear that the Bank's role in providing emergency assistance to avert a
collapse of the power sector in 2004 was highly valued by the Borrower.

                                           21


7.2.   Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

7.3.   Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.

                                          22



Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

a.      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)--IDA Credit

                                Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                 (US$ million)     Estimate (US$
                                                      million)            Appraisal

JET A1 FUEL                            10.4                0                 0
KILOWATT HOURS
PRODUCED (IPTL POWER                   33.40              45.8               0
PLANT)
            Total Baseline Cost        43.80              45.8               0
Physical Contingencies                   0                 0                 0
Price Contingencies                      0                 0                 0
             Total Project Costs       43.8               45.8               0
Project Preparation Fund                 0                 0                 0
Front-end Fee IBRD                       0                 0                 0
     Total Financing Required          43.8               45.8               0



b.      IDA Financing

          Source of Funds            Type of      Appraisal Actual/LatestPercentage  of
                                   Cofinancing    Estimate     Estimate
                                                (US$ million) (US$ million) Appraisal

IDA                                                43.80         45.4          .00

                                                 23



Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Monthly Electricity Dispatch from IPTL to TANESCO, March 2004­December 2006 [[in MW?]]

          Month                        2004                      2005                      2006
         January                         --                  66,746,900                 66,033,800
         February                        --                  58,380,900                 61,352,900
          March                     68,153,100               49,492,000                 67,782,700
           April                    36,703,200               40,720,700                 37,532,300
           May                      35,798,300               56,446,800                 10,350,200
           June                     68,293,700               38,215,200                 43,182,100
           July                     70,675,000               61,048,800                 58,386,800
          August                    72,903,000                39,233,800                66,154,600
        September                   64,519,800                46,524,100                66,559,700
         October                    66,752,800                31,820,600                67,364,400
         November                   62,821,900                28,744,400                63,645,300
         December                   62,689,100                60,410,300                32,025,300
 Subtotal                          609,309,900              577,784,500               640,370,100
 TOTAL                                                                               1,827,464,500
Source: TANESCO.
Note: Shaded areas indicate the project's disbursement periods, including retroactive financing starting
March 2004.



Planned and Actual Commissioning Dates for Two Additional 36 MW Gas Turbines

        Unit at Ubungo power plant                  Planned Date                    Actual Date

                    Unit 5                          October 2004                  December 2004

                    Unit 6                           January 2005                    June 2005

                                                       24



Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

a.        Financial Analysis
(based on TANESCO's audited financial statements for the respective calendar years)

TANESCO--Main Operating Performance Indicators

                                                 2002              2003          2004       2005
 Market Indicators
 - Installed Capacity (MW)                       921                921          921         957
 - Generation (GWh)                            2,808.49           3,066.50     3,670.21     3,621
 - Total Sales (kWh) (in million)                2,186             2,326        2,369       2,657
 - Demand (MVA)                                  470                510          500         550
 Efficiency Indicators
 - Total Employees                               6,433             4,996        4,857       4,783
 - No. of Customers                             485,995           513,703      550,863     585,773
 - Customer/Employee ratio                        75                103          113        97.35
 - System Losses (%) (annual average):
   - Distribution                                10%                12%          14%        15%
   - Transmission                                 3%                 3%          4%          5%


TANESCO--Main Financial Indicators (in T Sh million)

 Indicator                                       2002              2003          2004        2005
 Revenues from Sales                            150,015           165,014       188,475     221,658
 COST OF SALES                                 (138,739)         (189,968)     (224,978)   (276,221)
 Gross Profit/(Loss)                            11,276            (24,954)      (36,503)   (54,563)
 Operating Expense                             (37,205)           (78,268)      (87,055)   (49,063)
 Operating Loss                                  (954)            (65,265)      (35,454)    (25,014)
 Interest Expense/Income:                      (120,747)         (157,089)      (77,969)    73,646 a
 - Net FOREX (Losses)/Gain                     (88,685)          (120,623)      (40,773)      474
 - Interest (Expense)/Income                   (32,196)           (36,984)      (37,533)      487
 - Interest Income                               134                518           337         32
 Net (Loss)/Income                             (70,544)          (176,798)      (60,271)    24,042


                                                 2002              2003          2004        2005
 Total Long-term Borrowings                     522,653           572,939       614,680     88,080 b
 Government Contribution:                       69,914            114,747       126,647     154,568
 - Rural Electrification                         1,850             3,532         14,216     21,059
 - Contribution to IPTL/Songas c                16,578             20,300        14,500     41,075
 - Pay-off of Outstanding Arrears                 --             16.3 billion      --         --
 - Direct Cash Subsidy                            --             25.0 billion      --         --
 - Net Cash Position (end of year)              20,047             11,605        9,018      (5,281)
a. Income due to 2004 finance charges on loans converted into equity.
b. Decrease in long-term borrowings due to conversion of debt to equity.
c. Starting in July 2004 for Songas.

Other Indicators
 Indicator                                         2002            2003          2004        2005
 Average Revenue from Sales/kWh (annual)           68.63           70.94         79.56       83.42

                                                             25


 Average Supply Cost/kWh (annual)                       63.47         81.67           94.97             103.96
 Average Tariff (TSh/kWh) (annual)                      86.25         70.94           76.43              84.35

Ratios
  Ratio                                                   2002         2003           2004               2005
  Operating loss                                             (954)      (65,265)       (87,055)            (49,063)
  Average Fixed Assets (net) d                          1,234,607     1,220,585       1,188,246           1,166,930
  Return on Assets                                             0.0         -0.05          -0.07               -0.04
  Current Assets                                          154,970       138,653        149,808              154,717
  Current Liabilities                                     360,068       504,625        556,444             109,809 e
  Current Ratio                                               0.43          0.27           0.27                1.41
  Operating expenses                                       37,205        78,268         87,055              49,063
  Revenues from sales                                     150,015       165,014        188,475              221,658
  Gross Profit Margin                                         0.25          0.47           0.46                0.22
  Total Debt (excludes deferred tax liabilities)          730,961       877,731         888,243            150,282 f
  Total Equity (excludes grants)                          575,786       449,718        402,720           1,176,839 f
  Debt/Equity Ratio                                           1.44          2.62           3.22                0.15
  Revenues from sales                                     150,015       165,014        188,475              221,658
  Average accounts receivable                              88,825        93,185         94,312               88,919
  Accounts Receivable Turnover                                1.69          1.77           2.00                2.49
  Operating loss                                             (954)      (65,265)       (35,454)       (25,014)
  Net Finance Expense                                     120,881       157,607         77,969          73,646
  Debt Coverage Ratio                                        -0.01         -0.41          -0.45           --
  Cash Flow from Operations                                34,770       (30,116)       (40,395)               7,079
  3-yr average Capital Expenditures g                      63,598        71,708         39,227               25,985
  Self-Financing Ratio                                        0.55         -0.42          -1.03                0.27

d. Average Revalued Net Fixed Assets in Operation except for 2002. Independent revaluation started in 2003.
e. Decrease in liabilities due to conversion of debt to equity.
f. Increase in equity/decrease in debt due to conversion of debt to equity.
g. Includes capital work in progress beginning of year + expenditure during the year. Excludes transfer to PPE during
   the year. 2-year average CAPEX for 2002.



                                                                  2002         2003       2004            2005
Inflation (%) (annual average)                                    4.6           4.4         4.1            4.4
Exchange Rate (T Sh/US$) (annual average)                         963.2       1,039.1    1,090.6        11,127.1

                                              26



Annex 4. Detailed Implementation Challenges Faced by the Emergency
Power Project

Problems in procuring Jet A1 fuel.           Shortly after Board approval in June 2004,
TANESCO awarded the Jet A1 fuel contract to OilCom Ltd. The following problems,
however, were encountered during negotiations. Jet A1 fuel used by the Ubungo gas
turbines was especially ordered for the plant. Hence, it was not in stock in the country
and had to be ordered from refineries in the Gulf region, taking a minimum of 21 days to
deliver at Dar es Salaam port. This left only a two-week stock to be purchased for the
Ubungo plant. Only about seven metric tons would have been required before the
conversion of the turbines into using gas. Due to the short delivery time required to have
the fuel available without affecting the conversion of the Songas turbines, it was not easy
for the successful bidder to organize a ship to carry the small quantity of Jet A1 fuel into
Tanzania, since the minimum a ship can carry is 15 metric tons, unless the ship combines
the consignment meant for Tanzania with another one destined for another consumer
elsewhere. The bidder could not confirm timely delivery and also required a much higher
price due to additional logistics required. Procurement of Jet A1 fuel therefore was
dropped due to the long lead time for procurement and the timing of the turbines before
they were converted to use gas. TANESCO requested that IDA funds earmarked for that
purpose be utilized for other generation options, such as leased capacity from a gas-fired
generation plant.

Revised emergency plan. In September 2004, TANESCO shared with the Bank its
revised emergency plan, including a lease or buy option for emergency generation,
(privately owned and/or operated) and the justification for reallocation. The tender for
the EPP was floated for the supply of 30­40 MW gas turbines at Ubungo or Tegeta in
Dar es Salaam, for a contract period of six months. Tenders were to be submitted within
three weeks and opened the same day on August 23, 2004. Only one bid, from MAHA
Equipment, was received and opened. On evaluation of the tender, it was concluded that
the bid was not responsive.

TANESCO decided to re-tender with the following modifications: (i) include diesel
generators option to capture possible shorter lead time, for a contract period of six
months, (ii) increase the contract period for gas-based generation from 6 to 12 months,
and (iii) change the expected commercial operation date to early November 2004.
Availability beyond December 2004 would not be of significant advantage as it would be
within or after the short rains period. However, the market on rental gas-based power
plants was affected by the Iraq war, where most of the rental plant was located, and a
many plants also were hired for the Olympic Games. The decision to re-tender was
therefore made on the assumption of getting a good offer for gas or diesel plants. The
hired plant option was considered as best serving TANESCO because of (i) shorter lead
time, (ii) cheaper fuel (gas), and (iii) use of gas-based plant even during the rainy period
to fill the Mtera dam or reduce purchases from IPTL. The major procurement therefore
would be the leased generation plant to be installed no later than November 2004. The
lease gas option was the preferred option, but in case of long lead time, the diesel-fueled

                                            27


plant option would be useful during the remaining period until March 2005, assuming the
long rains came at that time.

Problems in procuring the EPP and second reallocation of funds. In November 2004,
Rousant International was awarded the contract for a lease option for a fixed amount of
US$19,823,240 for 40 MW leased gas-based EPP.

On November 30, 2004, TANESCO notified Rousant that it now considered a buy-option
with another bidder, GAPCO, although the buy-option was not part of the original tender,
and GAPCO had been rejected for the lease option.

In December 2004, Rousant sent a letter of complaint to the MEM Minister, complaining
of violation of tender for procurement of emergency power generation.

The Bank then asked TANESCO to hold off negotiations with GAPCO. GAPCO
subsequently sent two letters of complaint, the first claiming that it had discovered that
the contract had now been awarded to Rousant. TANESCO sent clarification to the
project, informing the project that GAPCO's bid price was not complete, based on the bid
requirements. Also, TANESCO received unsolicited information from GAPCO that
changed the stance of GAPCO's bid, hence modifying the bid price.            Nevertheless,
GAPCO sent another letter to TANESCO in December 2004, "assuming the contract will
be awarded to GAPCO."

On January 19, 2005, the Bank reviewed all bidding documents from Rousant and
GAPCO. Subsequently, TANESCO informed Rousant that the TANESCO Board of
Directors "has already agreed to conclude contract negotiations with you (Rousant
International) on December 16, 2004." TANESCO also asked Rousant to "expedite
finalizing outstanding issues" for the contract to be signed by January 24, 2005, to meet
the original commissioning date. "Otherwise, TANESCO will stop the deal and look at
other available options."
On February 15, 2005, TANESCO informed the Bank that the leased gas-based
generation plant was canceled and would no longer be available. TANESCO requested
allocation of US$10.4 million to buy additional energy from IPTL. During a supervision
mission in February 2005, the project gave its no-objection to the reallocation, but for the
remaining balance of US$8.4 million. The decision to reallocate the remaining funds to
buy additional electricity from IPTL was made because by February 2005 the rainy
season had ended and the level of Mtera was known. It would have taken too long to go
through another procurement cycle, which left the purchase of energy from IPTL as the
only other option.

                                          28



Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

a.     Task Team members

          Names                         Title              Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Gulam H. Dhalla          Consultant                       AFTEG
Reynold Duncan           Lead Power Engineer              MNSSD
Naima A Hasci            Sr Social Scientist               AFTS3
Ralph Ake Karhammar      Sr Energy Spec.                  AFTEG
Marius Koen              Sr Financial Management Specia   OPCFM
Helena Mamle Kofi        Procurement Analyst              AFTEG
Robert A. Robelus        Consultant                       AFTU2
Vedasto Rwechungura      Program Officer                   AFTPS

b.     Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$ Thousands
                                   No. of Staff Weeks      (Including Travel and
                                                             Consultant Costs)
Lending
  FY04                                      26                     139.04
  FY05                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
                        Total:              26                     139.04
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                               0.00
  FY05                                      15                     111.78
  FY06                                       5                      31.33
  FY07                                       5                      23.87
                        Total:              25                     166.98

                                 29


Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable.

                               30



Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.

                                                    31



Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

a.      Principal Performance Ratings

Outcome:                                                                      HS
Sustainability:                                                               M
Institutional Development Impact:                                            HL
Bank Performance:                                                             HS
Borrower Performance:                                                         HS
Quality at Entry                                                              U
Operation at Risk at Any Time                                                 L

Legend: (HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely,
L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High,
SU=Substantial, M=modest, N=Negligible)

b.      Program Description

By the time of the Emergency Project in mid 2004,Tanzania had already experienced a
long drought period starting April 2003. [This drought finally ended in early January
2007]. After the short rainy season of 2003, TANESCO and the Government of Tanzania
prepared an Emergency Power Supply Plan to mitigate the effect of drought and therefore
the potential for load shedding. The proposed programs included the following actions:

    Increased use of the formerly TANESCO's Ubungo gas turbines (units 1, 2, 3 and 4),2
    amounting to aggregate total installed capacity of about 100 MW. The turbines were
    operating using Jet A1 fuel.

    Urgent procurement of additional gas turbines (units 5 and 6) of about 36 MW each.

    Convert the 100 MW IPTL power plant to run on natural gas instead of the much
    more expensive HFO fuel; this would have reduced TANESCO's expenditures.

    Urgent procurement of EPPs to operate on liquid fuel (own or rental).

    Arrange for additional power supply from industries with excess power, such as sugar
    factories.

    Make arrangements with some industries that have substantially large standby power
    supply, to reduce the intake from TANESCO and fill the gap by their standby power
    plants.



2The gas turbines were in the process of being transferred to Songas.

                                            32


The drought situation got worse and resulted in low reservoir levels in the main power
generation dams, hence significant reduction in generation capacity in the country's
predominantly hydropower system. The situation was further aggravated by lack of funds
for fuel for the thermal stations; it was therefore necessary to exercise load shedding of
about 27 percent of the electricity demand. To reduce the effects of the energy deficit, the
Government extended significant cash support to TANESCO for purchase additional
energy from IPTL and Songas, the latter operating using Jet A1 fuel. That not being a
total solution, February 20, 2004, the Government approached the World Bank (IDA) and
requested financial assistance to implement emergency power generation, as a measure to
bridge the deficit in the grid system. The proposed Emergency Power Generation Project
was intended to provide funds to assist TANESCO and the Government to meet the
incremental costs attributable to the 2003­04 drought. After a review of possible
solutions the Bank agreed to provide funds for the following options:

    Procurement by TANESCO of incremental supplies of Jet A1 fuel for the Ubungo
    power plant up to June-July 2004, when the turbines would have been modified to run
    on natural gas that would be would be available at Ubungo.

    Provide funds to pay for the incremental energy purchase costs from IPTL Tegeta
    power plant running on HFO. Following the due diligence review of the fuel
    procurement process employed by IPTL, IDA agreed to finance the cost for energy
    instead of paying for fuel.

c.      Achievements of Objectives and Outputs under the Emergency Plan

The Credit was signed on July 5, 2004, and was declared effective on September 13,
2004. A total credit of SDR 30.2 million (equivalent to US$43.8 million) was availed to
TANESCO to mitigate the power crisis in the country. The funds were required to be a
grant to TANESCO. The emergency power supply plan was designed to meet Tanzania's
daily electricity requirements during the period when water levels in the country's main
hydropower catchments were at drought levels, severely limiting generation in the
country's predominantly hydropower system. The four main elements of this plan were
as follows:

    operating the Ubungo power plant on Jet A1 fuel until the plant was converted into
    using natural gas
    operating the IPTL thermal power plant (100 MW) on HFO fuel
    installing two 36 MW gas-fired generation plants to be financed by Songas (the
    private sector)
    conserving storage in Mtera's reservoir

IDA's assistance was for the purchase of Jet A1 fuel for the Ubungo power plant prior to
its conversion and the financing of additional output from the IPTL power plant. The
proposal for relocation and transfer to TANESCO of the 18 MW used Geita diesel
generators was dropped due to logistics and funding constraints. The Government

                                                                             33


through its own budget provided TANESCO with about T Sh 56 billion during the end
2003 and first half of 2004, to assist TANESCO in increased thermal generation.

d.                           Achievements and Outputs

Purchase of Jet A1 fuel for Songas gas turbines. The procurement of Jet A1 fuel did
not take place due to the long delivery times required since the type of fuel was not
readily available in the country. Given the long lead time and small quantities required
before gas was available there was no justification for procuring the liquid fuel.

Purchase of additional energy. Energy purchase from IPTL during the emergency
period of March 1, 2004, to February 28, 2005, involved a cost of US$33.36 million.
TANESCO continued to purchase energy from IPTL, which ran at an average plant factor
of over 90 percent from March 2004 to February 2004. Further energy was purchased
from IPTL following the Bank's approval for the use of US$10.42 million previously
budgeted for purchase of Jet A1 fuel. This required extension of the project
implementation period, as well as the credit closing date. Figures A.8.1 and A.8.2
summarize the disbursement of funds and units generated respectively during the period.

Figure A.8.1: Disbursement of Funds


                               6




                               5




                               4



     million
            hS                 3

              T
               in

                               2
                 mente



                      Disburs  1




                               0
                                   Mar-04 Apr-04 May-04 Jun-04 Jul-04 Aug-04 Sep-04 Oct-04 Nov-04 Dec-04 Jan-05 Feb-05 Mar-05 Apr-05 May-05 Jun-05 Jul-05



                                                                                          Period
                                    Energy cost
                                    Capacity Charge
                                    Supp. Charges
                                    Bonus

                                                                                            34


Figure A.8.2: Units Generated from March 2004 to July 2005

                 140.00                                       KIDATU
                                                              KIHANSI
                                                              MTERA
                                                              PANGANISYSTEM

                 120.00                                       GTs
                                                              IPTL IMPORT
                                                              Grid Diesel
                                                              Others


                 100.00
   srh
      WG          80.00

        niygre    60.00

              En
                  40.00


                  20.00


                   -
                          40r-     4
                                    r-0     40-y     40             40-l              40
                                                                                        p-     40-t       04-v     40-c     50-n     50-b     50r-     5
                                                                                                                                                        r-0     50-y     50       50-l
                              Ma       Ap       Ma     un-J             Ju   40-g
                                                                                 Au       Se       Oc         No       De       Ja       Fe       Ma       Ap       Ma     un-J       Ju

                                                                                                      Period



Gas-based rental power supply. On July 29, 2004, following Bank procurement
procedures, TANESCO tendered for 30 MW of gas-based EPP. There was one
nonresponsive bid. Bidders cited a worldwide capacity shortage (because of demands
related to the Iraqi war and the Olympics). Also, the bidding period was too short, and the
lease period of six months was not long enough to be attractive. TANESCO re-tendered
for the EPP, offering a one-year lease and a longer mobilization time. This procurement
was later cancelled after negotiations with the recommended bidder failed.

e.                    Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The following factors affected the implementation of the Emergency Power Supply
Project:

                There was up to a four-month delay in the commissioning of the gas infrastructure
                system and the conversion of the Ubungo power plant (125 MW) to gas-firing. The
                first two gas turbines amounting to about 80 MW at Ubungo were finally converted to
                run on gas around July 14, 2004 (two months late), and the other two gas turbines (44
                MW) were commissioned on September 24, 2004, also two months late.

                The long rains were insufficient to replenish the main Mtera reservoir (80 MW).3 The
                reservoir level peaked at a level of about 692.8 masl at end May 2004, as compared to
                a normal level of 698.5 masl (the minimum operating level is 690.0 masl).
                Furthermore, the Pangani hydro system experienced reduced inflow (from 20 meters
                per second to 15 meters per second).                                                 To compensate for the lack of thermal


3 The Mtera reservoir is TANESCO's largest hydropower system, comprising the Mtera (80 MW) and
Kidatu (200 MW) dams, both located along the Great Ruaha River. The Mtera dam provides year-round
storage capacity.

                                                                                                    35


           generation, TANESCO increased the discharge from Mtera to avert load shedding,
           thereby defeating the whole objective of water filling of the dam (ponding) during the
           Emergency Project period. Figure A.8.3 depicts the drawdown of water at the
           TANESCO's two main reservoirs during the period

Figure A.8.3: Dam Levels


           694


           692


           690


           688

   leveL   686
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mtera Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NYM Dam
        m  684
         Da

           682


           680


           678


           676
                  04-rpA      04-yaM      04-n        40-l                                                                                                                                            50-l
                                              Ju          Ju      04-guA      04-peS      04-tcO      04-voN      04-c        05-n
                                                                                                                      De          Ja      05-beF      05-raM      05-rpA      05-yaM      05-n
                                                                                                                                                                                              Ju          Ju

                        30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-         30-

                                                                                                     Period

           Delays in negotiating the installation of the fifth gas turbine resulted in the unit being
           commissioned two months late--that is, December 2004 instead of October 2004.
           The ship transporting the sixth 36 MW gas turbine and the skids for the fifth turbine
           ran aground off the coast of South Africa in October 2004 and the new turbine was
           completely destroyed by salt water. This means that installation of the sixth turbine
           was delayed until June 2005, as opposed to early February 2005 as planned.

           Plans to purchase a 30 MW gas-fired EPP failed.4




f.            Bank and Borrower Performance

The Bank



4The funding for this option was not firmed up but IDA had agreed in principle to use the funds remaining
from purchasing Jet A1 fuel.

                                            36


The establishment of the IDA Credit 3916-TA was done in a very short time compared to
other projects; showing the good support during emergency situations. Furthermore, the
Bank was very supportive to the option of funding the energy purchase instead of fuel in
order to comply with the procurement policies.

In light of the above, TANESCO requested IDA to finance 30­40 MW of emergency
gas-based generation for a period of one year.        This required amending the Legal
Agreements to permit the procurement of gas-based generation plant, instead of Jet A1
fuel. IDA supported the approach as a means of mitigating the severe impact of massive
load shedding. The Bank supported the idea of assessing the benefits of a "lease or buy"
option at the end of the lease period. Therefore, the Bank was very flexible under the
emergency situation, hence enabling efficient utilization of the project funds.

On July 29, 2004, TANESCO tendered for 30 MW of gas-based EPP under the Bank
procurement guidelines. One nonresponsive bid was received. TANESCO re-tendered
for the EPP, offering a one-year lease and a longer mobilization time. Bids were received
on October 28, 2004, and a bid evaluation report submitted to IDA for its review and no-
objection. The Bank gave a no-objection to negotiate with Rousant International of South
Africa.    The negotiations took too long, leading to cancellation of the bid due to
conditionality imposed by Rousant prior to contract signing. After cancellation of the 30
MW EPP, TANESCO requested IDA to amend the DCA and Project Agreement to
facilitate reallocation of funds intended for Jet A1 fuel to payment of energy purchase
from IPTL. The Bank did make decisions within a reasonable length of time with a good
result.

The Bank arranged several supervisory missions that provided guidance at the various
stages of project implementation.

The Borrower

TANESCO investigated the upstream water abstraction situation and conducted some
dialogue with the Government and villagers in the catchments area. TANESCO also
carried out an environmental assessment on the potential impacts if a two-meter drop
below the dead storage level of 690.0 masl is implemented. Following consultations
within the Government, TANESCO was allowed to release the dead storage at Mtera to
permit a slow discharge of about 250 cubic meters of water over a 6­7 week period,
similar to the normal river flow downstream. This sustained hydropower generation
downstream at Kidatu (200 MW). This generated about 100 GWh earning TANESCO
revenue of about US$10 million. The Government decision averted load shedding, but
lacked the continued requirement to manage the water upstream of the dams. TANESCO
also began to run its old and expensive diesel plant (about 10 MW at a 50 percent load
factor).   Furthermore, it signed a co-generation agreement with Kilombero Sugar
Company for about 2 MW.

g.      Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

                                          37


The main findings of the program include the following:

  Project implementation has proceeded quite satisfactorily.

  Hydropower energy constraints due to drought and low water levels in the country's
  hydropower catchments areas have not improved during the project implementation
  period. This situation had a negative impact on TANESCO's ability to transition out
  of the EPP situation beyond the project.

  The hydro/thermal generation mix for 2004 was 53/47. As a result, power purchase
  and fuel costs in 2004 increased to T Sh 158 billion (US$148 million equivalent), of
  which 29 percent was funded by TANESCO out of internal cash generation, and the
  balance was provided through Credit 3916-TA and the Government.

h.    Environmental and Social Aspects

The Emergency Project has not been involved in any resettlement or compensation. The
IPTL power plant was put in operation after satisfactory fulfilment of the Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) and Social Impact Assessment (SIA).

                               38


Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.

                                         39


Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents/References

1.     MOP for an Emergency Power Supply Project and for Proposed Amendments to
the Legal Agreements of the Songo Songo Gas Development & Power Generation
Project (Credit 3569-TA)

2.     All supervision reports and Aide-Memoires and ISRs.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33203

                                                 To Masaka             32°   U G A N D A                                                                         36°                                                                                    40°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TANZANIA

                                                                      BUKOBA       Lake                 MUSOMA                                                                                                                                                                                     EMERGENCY POWER
                                                                                Victoria                                                                                                                                                                                                                SUPPLY PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                    K          E        N                Y      A
                      RWANDA

                                                                                                                                                                                To Nairobi                                                                                                                         EXISTING GAS PIPELINE

                                                                                                 MWANZA                                                                                                                                                                                                            SONGO SONGO FIELD
                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                      l  l
                                                                                                             l                                                         Longido
                                                                                                               l


                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                              PLANNED OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNDER
                     BURUNDI                                                                                    l                                Oldeani             ARUSHA                MOSHI                                                                                               CONSTRUCTION EXISTING     POWER STATIONS:
                                                                                                                 l                         Lake                                               l      l      To Voi
                                                                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                           HYDRO
                                                                                                               l                          Eyasi        Lake                                     l
                                               Kibondo                                SHINYANGA                                                    Manyara                    Arusha Chini
                                                                                                         l   l                                                                                     l                                                                                                                         DIESEL
                                                                                                       l
                                                                           Kahama                  l                                             Mwadukani                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GAS
4°                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                      lSame                                                                 4°
                                                                                            l           Nzega                     Lake                                                                  l                                                                                                                    SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                l                                                                Babati
                                                                                                                                 Kitangiri                                                               l                                      To                                                                       TRANSMISSION LINES:
                                                                                               l
                                   Kasulu                                                                                                                                                                  l                                Mombasa
                                                                                              l                                                                                                              l
     CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                            220 Kv

                 KIGOMA                                                                    l
                                                                                                                               SINGIDA         Mgori                                                              l                                                                                                          132 kV
                          l                                                              l                                                                      Kondoa
                             l                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                     Ujiji      l                Malagarasi           Kaliua                TABORA                                                                                                                                                  WETE
                                   l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sc
                                      l                                                                                                                                                                                                   TANGA                                                                              132 Kv SUBMARINE CABLE
                                         l  l  l                      l  l              l
                    L         Uvinza                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                 l  l       l   l  l        l
                                                         l                     l                                                                                                                                      Korogwel          l
                                                                    l             l  l    l                                                                                                                            l
                     a                                                                           l                                                    Kalema                                                              l    l
                           Malagarasi                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pemba
          OF                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66 kV
                      k                                                                              l                                                                                                                                   Pangani
                                                               l                                         l                                                                                       Handeni           Hale    l                           Island
                                                                                                             l
                       e                                                                                           l                                                            Kijungu
                                                             l                                                        l  l                                                                                                           Pangani                                                                             AREAS WITH DISTRIBUTION
                                                          l                              Sikonge                            l                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                    Power Project                                                                       DEVELOPMENT IDENTIFIED
                                                       l                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                        l     l
                                                                                                                                           l    l                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mkata
                                                     l                                                                                            l                                                                           l                Zanzibar
                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                      l                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                      l       DODOMA                                                                            Island
                                                        l                                                                                                l                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                             l  l
                                          Mpanda        l                                                                                                         l                                                                         ZANZIBAR                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
            D.R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                    l   l                              Wami                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bagamoyo             I N D I A N
                                                                                                                                                                          l   Mpwapwa                                            l                                                          REGION CAPITALS                      RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                             l                           Chalinze                           sc
                                                                                                                                                                               l                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                           DAR ES SALAAM                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                 T a                                                                                                                                                   l  l  l    l       l  l  l
                                                                                                                                                                              Kilosal                l             l   l  l        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l       l ll l l

                                    n                                                                               Rungwa                                         Mtera                             MOROGORO            l
                                     g                                       Rungwa                                                                                                                                   l

                                       a                                                                                                                                                                            l                                       O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                    Ruaha                      Mikumi
                                        n                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                     Namanyere                                                                                                                                            Ruvul
                                         y                                                                                                                                                         l   l   l                                  Kisiju
                                          i                                  Lake                                                                                                               l
                                           k                                 Rukwa                            Kipembawe                            IRINGA                             Kidatu l                            Kibiti
                                                                                                                                                                                        l  l                Rufiji                                     Mafia
                                            a                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                                                     DJIBOUTI
                                                                   SUMBAWANGA                                                                                                      l                                                                   Island                   C H A D
8°
                                                                                                                                                                            l  l  l                                Ikwiriri                                                 8°
                                                                                                                                                                         l                                                                                                                                S U D A N
                                                                                                                                                                      l         Ifakara                                                                                                                                         ETHIOPIA          SOMALIA
                                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                         Kasanga
                                                                                                              Chunya                                             l                                                                                 SONGO SONGO GAS FIELD                  CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                  Mufindi       l    Mahenge                                                                                                          AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                     l           l  l
                                                                                                                        l              l          l  l     l   l                                                                               Kilwa Kivinje
                                                                                                                 l         l                   l       l
                                                                                                                              l
                                                            To                                      MBEYAl                                l  l              l    Kihansi
                                                                                                      l
                                                          Mbala                                   l       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kilwa Masoko
                                                                                            l

                    Z A M B I A                                                                    Vwawa
                                                                                           l                         Tukuyu
                                                                         To Mbala      l                                                    Njombe                                                                                                                                                                 UGANDA
                                                                       and Kasama                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KENYA
                                                                                                                                                                              Luwegu                                                                                             CONGO
                                                                                 To Isoka                                                                                                       Liwale                                                                                                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RWANDA      Victoria
                                                                                                                   To Karonga                                                                                                                                                               D.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LINDI                                          CONGO         BURUNDI                               I N D I A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mbwomkuru                                  MTWARA                                                TANZANIA
                                                                                                                             Lake
                     0                100               200               300                    400 KILOMETERS                                                                                               Nachingwea                        Mikindani      MNAZI BAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GAS RESERVES                                            Dodoma                   O C E A N
                                                                                                                            Nyasa
                                                                                                                                                            SONGEA                                                                  Masasi

                                                                                                                                                Mbinga                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Newala
                                                                                                                                                                                            Tunduru                                            Ruvum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMOROS
    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank. The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother                                                                                                                                                           A N G O L A
    information shownon this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment on the legalstatus of anyMbamba Bay                                                                                                                                                                                    MALAWI
    territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                          MALAWI                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mayotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Z A M B I A                                 (Fr)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       M O Z A M B I Q U E                                                                                                   MOZAMBIQUE       MADAGASCAR
                                                                       32°                                                                                       36°                                                                                    40°
12°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         APRIL 2004

