RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA-108a
Tis report h for official use only by the Bank Group and specifially authorized orpnizations
or pemon It nay not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
B& Grop does not accept respondbilty for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF AN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
TURKEY
January 4, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All figures in this report are based on an exchange rate of TL 15 -
US$ 1. In December 1971, after completion of this report, Turkey set
a new central rate of TL 14 = US$ 1; the overall impact of this change
on project evaluation is expected to be minimal.
Currency Unit = Turkish Lire (TL) - 100 kurus
US$1   - 15.00 TL
US$1,000,000  = 15,000,000 (TL)
1 TL   = 0.06667
TL million = US$66,667
WEIGHTS AND IMEASURES
mm  -  millimeter (1 mm - 0.039 inch)
m = meter (1 m - 3.28 feet)
km  =  kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
ha  =  hectare (1 ha - 10,000 square meters - 2.47 acres)
da2 =  decare (10 da - 1 ha) 2
km3 -  square kilometer3(1 km  = 100 ha - 0.386 sq. miles)
m3 =  cubic meter (1 m  = 1.31 ckubic yards)
Mm  =  million cubic meters (1 MmJ - 810 acre feet)
ton =  metric ton (ton   2,205 lb)
kg  =  kilogram (1 kg - 2.2 lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
DSI       -  Devlet Su Isleri - General Directorate of State
Hydraulic Works
TOPRAKSU  -  General Directorate of Soil and Water
ABT       -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
SPO       -  State Planning Organization
YSE       - Yol Su Elektric -- Agency responsible for roads,
water, and electricity of villages
FISCAL YEAR
March 1st to last day of February
AGRICULTURE PROJECTS DEPARTMENT



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION . ..................... ..........
I.  INTRODUCTION    ................... ..................... *    1
II.   BACKGROUND ...........            ...........*.*....I .      2
III. THE PROJECT AREA                       . .                      3
General .                                               3
Climate  ..                                             4
Soils, Topography and Drainage  .                       4
Population   ...............                .....       4
Landholdings and Tenure.......                          5
Present Land Use . ......... .   5
Transportation ..,.,.      .........    ..    .. ....   6
Present Status of Project Facilities .............    6
IV. THE PROJECT . ..                                                7
Description.                   ..    .     .......      7
Water Supply, Demand, and Quality ...............    7
Status of Engineering 8.....                 .. ... .   8
Training   ..........               ......   ....       8
Cost Estimates .... I .. . . ....               .8
Construction Schedule..                                 9
Financing ....                                          9
Procurement         .    .    ..... . ... .. ..         9
Disbursement ...............................................   10
Accounts and Auditing ............  ........           11
V.   ORGANIZATION   ANDAGEMENT ....              ...,             11
Project Coordination ............................    11
Consultants   ................... *.................,.  12
Safety of Dams ...................................   13
Credit .......................................   13
Other Farm Services ...............................   14
Processing and Market eng     .........................   14
Operation and Maintenance .........................  15
Water Charges ..........................  .........   15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission,
composed of Messrs. J.C. Douglass, C.G. Moret, and M. Moghazi (IDA), and
P. Hotchin and R. Fagerberg (Consultants),



-2-
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARMERS' INCOME .......   16
Production   .......................................  16
Market  Prospects  .  ........................... O.-.117
Farmers'   Income  ..................................  17
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   18
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....  ............   19
ANNEXES
1.  Soils and Drainage
2.  Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.  Present Status of Project Facilities and Work to be Performed
4.  Water Supply, Requirements, Adequacy of Supply and Quality
5.  Cost Estimates
6.  Schedules
Construction and Expenditures
7.  Equipment Lists
8.  Schedule of Disbursements
9.  Agencies Involved in Implementing the Project and Their Coordination
10.  Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
11.  The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
12.  Present Operation and Maintenance Costs and Water Charges
13.  Operation and Maintenance Costs with the Project
14.  Cropping Patterns and Net Returns
15.  The Outlook for Cotton
16.  Production Costs
17.  Farm Budgets
18.  Economic Analysis



- 3 -
MAPS
3545    Silifke
3525    Koprucay
3531    Tokat






TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for improving and completing three
irrigation projects in Turkey for which an IDA credit of US$18.0 million is
proposed. Two of the projects, Silifke and Koprucay, are on the Mediterranean
Coast and the third, Tokat is on the Anatolia Plateau northeast of Ankara.
ii.       Turkey has in the past made large investments in major works for
irrigation projects, but has not completed them to the point at which they
may be fully utilized. The proposed project would complete irrigation and
drainage facilities on three projects so that 50,000 ha of land would be
adequately served in contrast to the 26,000 ha now receiving partial service.
The project would also complete the on-farm development by leveling the lands,
installing tile and surface drainage and improving village roads. It would
increase and coordinate the extension activities and provide adequate use of
fertiLizers and pesticides through credit facilities to be provided by the
Government.
iii.           Irrigation plays an important role in Turkey's agriculture since
precipitation is either low or irregularly distributed. Irrigation works
currently cover about 1.5 million ha, about one-third of which is in Govern-
ment schemes.  In recent years, construction targets have been exceeded and
the area for which major works have been constructed amounts to 500,000 ha,
but only about one third of this area is irrigated because of failure to
complete the distribution and drainage systems and on farm development works.
iv.       The total cost of the proposed project would be about US$36.6 mil-
lion equivalent. The proposed IDA credit of US$18.0 million equivalent
would cover the estimated foreign exchange costs amounting to approximately
US$11.3 million, and US$6.7 million of local currency expenditures. The
remaining costs would be met through Goverunent budgetary allocations.
About US$6.0 million of the civil works would be done under force account.
Contracts for other civil works and imported equipment would be let on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
v.        Three ministries -- Natural Resources and Energy, Village Affairs,
and Agriculture -- and the Agricultural Bank would be involved in completing
and developing the full potential of the three projects and committees
would be established for each project to insure the necessary coordination
between the construction activities and the development of the irrigated
agriculture.
vi.       The future net production value to be achieved on the three
projects would total US$17.3 million annually compared with US$9.1 million
without the project. The estimated net production value without the project
includes a liberal allowance for technological improvements likely to take



- ii -
place in the absence of the project. Construction would take five years and
amother five years would be required to reach full agricultural development.
Rates of return to the economy, computed individually for each project, would
be 18% for Silifke, 19% for Koprucay and 12% for Tokat.
vii.      The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$18.0 million.



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATCON AND COMPLETION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Turkey has requested an IDA credit of US$18.0 mil-
lion to assist in financing the rehabilitation and completion of three
separate irrigation projects -- Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat. Collectively,
the projects, when completed, would serve 50,000 ha. They were chosen by
the Government from a much longer list as having high priority, work was
actively in progress and sufficient data was available to form a basis for
seeking financing. These projects had also been endorsed by the Bank's
economic mission as being of high priority.
1.02      The Bank and IDA have made the following loans and credits for
agricultural development in Turkey in the last five years:
(a)  Seyhan Irrigation Project Stage II, Loan 587-TU, for US$12.0
million and Credit 143-TU for US$12.0 million, both dated
February 1969. This was the third Bank-IDA operation in
connection with this project. The first, 63-TU, made in
1952, assisted in financing construction of the Seyhan Multi-
purpose Dam, while Credit 38-TU, made in 1963, supported the
First Stage of the Seyhan Irrigation Project, which has now
been completed. Although irrigation development experienced
many problems in its early years, they were resolved and
progress on completion of the works for both stages has since
been satisfactory.
(b)  Intensive Dairy Production, Credit 236-TU, for US$4.5 million.
This credit became effective, December 23, 1971.
(c)  Fruits and Vegetables Export Project - Loan 762-TU (US$10.0
million) and Credit 257-TU (US$15.0 million). This operation
is not yet effective.
1.03      A Bank mission that visited Turkey in 1970 to review general econo-
mic conditions concluded that irrigation is vital to development of Turkish
agriculture and noted that, while investments in irrigation have been large,
the projects have been seriously underutilized. This situation has resulted
from favoring construction of major works at the expense of providing
distribution systems and on-farm development and supporting research and
extension. The mission therefore recommended that existing irrigation systems
be completed and fully utilized. It is estimated that Turkey should be able
to bring each year some 60,000 to 80,000 ha of project lands under full
irrigation and intensive agricultural development and complete work, over the
next 10 to 13 years, for the entire 800,000 ha, for which major works have
been or are being constructed.
1.04      The proposed project is the first of the rehabilitation or
completion projects presented to the Association for financial assistance.



-2-
Basic project preparation was done by the Government of Turkey, acting
through the General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI) of the
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the General Directorate of Soil
and Water (TOPRAKSU) of the Ministry of Village Affairs and various agencies
of the Department of Agriculture. The project was appraised in May/June
1971 by Messrs. J.C. Douglass, C.G. Moret, and M. Moghazi (IDA), and
P. Hotchin and R. Fagerberg (consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Turkey has a total land area of about 780,000 km  and a population
of 35.7 million (1970), increasing at 2.8% per annum. At constant prices,
GNP rose at about 6.9% per annum from 1963-67 while the rate of growth
slowed to 6.6% in 1969 and to 5% in 1970.  At market prices, GNP in 1970
amounted to TL 144.5 billion, which represented about TL 3,600 or US$249 -
per capita. The country has about 65 million ha of productive land; the
cultivated area accounts for 27 million ha and the balance is in pastures
and forests.
2.02      Agriculture is a crucial sector in the economy of Turkey; its
contribution to the GNP is only about 30% but it supports about 70% of total
employment and is the main source for foreign exchange earnings (75% in 1969).
In the First Plan period (1963-67), agricultural added value expanded at
3.4% per annum; the rate was 1.9% in 1968 and close to 1% in 1969 and 1970.
2.03      Poor achievements in agriculture are due generally to the lack of
coordination in policies, organization, implementation and development among
the different administrative units dealing with agricultural matters. In
the case of irrigation projects, the absence of coordination has resulted
in funds being allocated to a large number of partially completed projects
scattered over the country with insufficient attention being paid to the
parallel need for on-farm development and other supporting services.
Agricultural inputs such as credit, extension, research and other supporting
services are generally inadequate and need to be expanded.
2/
2.04      In 1969 - , Turkish imports were about US$800 million, compared
with exports amounting to US$540 million, of which US$400 million (near 10%
of agricultural gross output) was contributed by the agricultural sector.
The most important export crops were: cotton (US$114 million), hazel
nuts (US$108 million), and tobacco (US$82 million); animal products and
iisheries amounted to US$33 million. In the same year, agricultural
sector imports were about US$50 million, mos;tly cereals (65%).
'!   Rate of exchange, TL 15.00   US$1.00 (after August 9, 1970).
2/   Rate of exchange, TL 9.00   US$1.00 (prior to August 9, 1970.



- 3 -
2.05      Irrigation plays an important role in Turkey's agriculture since
precipitation is either low, or, in areas where total annual rainfall is
appreciable, irregularly distributed. Government's investments in irri-
gation schemes have been large, but they are underutilized; during the First
Plan period, public investments in irrigation amounted to TL 3.5 billion,
or 60% of total public sector investments in agriculture. Irrigation works
currently cover about 1.5 million ha, about one-third of this area being
in Government schemes. In recent years, the construction targets have
been exceeded, but the area actually irrigated has fallen considerably below
planned levels (in 1968 only 50% of the 60,000 ha expected).
2.06      The Second Plan's (1968-72) overall target is an increase in gross
agricultural added value from TL 26 billion to TL 32 billion, equivalent to
an ambitious growth rate of 4.2% per annum. It also aims at a total invest-
ment in agriculture of TL 17 billion, the public sector contribution being
TL 11 billion. Public sector investments in irrigation are programmed at
TL 7.2 billion, or 65% of public agricultural investments.
2.07      Turkey should be self-sufficient in wheat in the early part of the
Third Plan (1973-77) and production and export of fresh fruits and vegetables
can be markedly expanded in the following years. Among Turkey's traditional
exports, tobacco and cotton are projected to register slight increases;
raisins and dried figs to maintain past growth rates; and hazel nut exports
to increase in accordance with trends in both Turkish production and external
demand.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project would consist of the following three areas (see Maps):
(a)  Silifke - on the Mediterranean Coast about 400 km southeast
of Ankara near the town of Silifke. The project area includes
approximately 5,000 net ha of irrigated land along both banks
of the Goksu River served by gravity by canals diverting at
the Gokau Regulator and lying above the main interceptor
drainage canals;
(b)  Koprucay - on the Mediterranean Coast about 360 km southwest
of Ankara and about 40 km east of the city of Antalya. The
project area includes about 22,000 net ha of irrigable lands
that can be served by gravity and pumping from the main canals
heading at the existing Koprucay Diversion Dam; and
(c)  Tokat - in the Anatolia Plateau about 350 km northeast of
Ankara and some 100 km from the Black Sea near the town of
Tokat. The project area consists of three plains -- the
Omala, Kazova, and Turhal -- collectively known as the Tokat



plains. It includes about 23,000 net ha lying along
both sides of the Yesilirmak River and consists of those lands
that can be served by gravity by canals heading at the existing
diversion dams of Tokmakkaya for the Omala Plain and
Gomenek for the Kazova and Turhal plains.
Climate
3.02      The Silifke and Koprucay areas have similar Mediterranean-type
climates, with hot dry summers and mild winters. Frosts are experienced
occasionally but are not severe enough to hamper citrus production. The
lowest recorded temperature is -6.30C at Silifke. Cold periods are generally
brief. Annual precipitation averages 640 -m at Silifke and 1,040 mm in
the Koprucay area. The bulk of the rainfall falls from December through
Harch, with virtually no effective precipitation during the main growing
Season, May through September. The growing season evaporation amounts
to about 1,160 mm at Silifke and 1,060 at Koprucay.
3.03      The Tokat area has a continental-type climate, with hot dry summers
and snow and below freezing weather in the winter. Frost is normally
experienced from late October to mid-April. The average annual precipitation
is 455 mm; July, August, and September are generally the driest months.
The climate is well adapted for temperate zone crops that can be grown in
the six-month frost-free period. Without irrigation, however, yields are
low because of the undependable precipitation in the growing season.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
3.04      Classification of all project lands has been done on a scale of
1:25,000, using satisfactory principles concerning suitability of land for
irrigation. About 36,000 ha or 70% of project lands are generally suitable
for irrigation. The balance of about 14,000 ha have drainage deficiencies
and, in small areas, alkalinity. Project works would correct these defi-
ciencies (Annex 1).
3.05      Silifke and Koprucay lie about 30 m above sea level.  The Silifke
aLrea is nearly flat, with gentle even slopes. Koprucay is flat in the
coastal areas and grades into a generally rolling countryside towards
the north, in the pump area. The average elevation of Tokat is about
650 m and the project lies in a valley. The flood plain is generally
flat, but then grades into gentle slopes on both sides and finally into
esteeper areas near the main canals. All project areas have suitable
topography for irrigated agriculture.
PEopulation
3.06      The 1970 census figures for the project areas (1965 for Tokat)
iare as follows:



-5-
No. of                      Estimated Farm
Area           Villages      Population       Labor Force
Silifke /1         15           26,000            3,000
Koprucay           34           28,200            6,700
Tokat /2           54          99,000            23,000
/1   Includes the town of Silifke.
/2   Includes Tokat (38,000) and Turhal (22,000).
Land Holdings and Tenure
3.07      The farm sizes adopted as representative for preparing farm budgets
for the three areas are: Silifke, 3 ha; Koprucay, 6 ha; and Tokat, 4 ha
(Annex 2). Nearly all farms are operated either by the owners or by hired
managers. Tenant farming is rare. Fragmentation is common in all areas,
with individual ownership averaging four different plots. Although the
required legislation for consolidating the fragmented holdings exists,
Government has found it impracticable to enforce it at this time. In view
of the many expected advantages from an agricultural standpoint that would
result from land consolidation, Government was urged to examine the costs
and problems associated with it and the benefits which might accrue there-
from. Future Bank Group lending for irrigation projects would take the
results of the study into account.
Present Land Use
3.08      In Silifke, all of the net area of 5,000 ha is under irrigation.
Winter cereals (wheat and barley) are grown on 1,250 ha and receive only
supplementary irrigation. About 3,000 ha are planted to summer crops and
750 ha remain fallow. Rice and peanuts are the main summer crops, with
some oranges and other fruits, vegetables, and sesame. Although the area
is well suited for cotton, only 100 ha are now cultivated, mainly because
of a lack of local ginning facilities. Constraints to a more intensive
agriculture are the inadequate drainage system and insufficient credit
and extension. Where drainage is adequate and irrigation is practiced, yields
are reasonably high.
3.09      In Koprucay, only about 9,000 ha out of 22,000 ha are presently
under irrigation, with cotton and rice the main irrigated crops. Dry crops
are mainly winter cereals, mostly wheat. Some 1,800 ha are at present un-
cultivated. The main constraints to more intensive cropping are incomplete
irrigation facilities, poor,drainage in low lying lands, and insufficient
credit and extension.
3.10      In Tokat, about 12,000 ha out of the total net area of 23,000
ha are presently under irrigation. The main irrigated crops are winter
wheat, sugar beets and orchard, with small areas in vegetables, maize and
vineyards. Under dry-farm conditions, wheat is also the prevailing crop.
About 2,800 ha are in fallow or meadow. The main constraints to more
intensive cropping are the incomplete irrigation system, poor drainage,
and insufficient credit and extension.



-6-
Transportation
3.11      Only the Tokat project is served by rail facilities.  Silifke and
Koprucay can be reached by ship, using local harbors or the main harbors
at Mersin and Antalya. All projects are served by modern paved highways.
Present Status of Project Facilities
3.12      Silifke.  The Goksu Diversion Dam on the Goksu River was constructed
in the period 1942 to 1948 and is in good condition. The main canal runs for
about 2.5 km along the left bank to a small hydro power plant. Below the
power plant, the main canal branches, with the Right Bank Main Canal siphoned
under the Goksu River and the Left Bank Main Canal continuing below the power
plant. The reach of the Main Canal from the diversion dam to the power plant
is in earth. Portions of the distribution system have been lined, either
with concrete or with rock masonry. It has been found that the original
grade lines of the canals are too low for good irrigation service and
DSI has initiated a rehabilitation program to raise canal linings in critical
locations and to rebuild tertiary canals at a higher elevation and to line
them. Portions of the main drainage outlets are complete and most secondaries
and tertiaries are in, but are too shallow to be effective. No on-farm devel-
opment has been carried out and there is a need for land leveling, tile
drainage, surface drainage, and improvement of farm roads.
3.13      Koprucay.  The irrigation system heads at a diversion dam,
constructed in the period 1963 to 1966, on the Koprucay River. The existing
irrigation system consists of lined main canals built in the traditional
way, with the secondaries and tertiaries in canalettes 1/. The project
is still under construction. DSI will complete, under its 1971 program,
the Right and Left Main Canals, the Right Bank Stage I pumping plant and
main pump canal, and the Left Bank Stage I pumping plant and main canal.
The canalette distribution system has been completed to serve a net area of
about 9,430 ha (5,200 ha by gravity on the right bank and 3,700 ha by
gravity and 530 ha in the Stage I pump area on the left Bank). The basic
drainage outlets have incorporated the existing stream channels, which have
been improved by DSI. Some 500 ha of land has been leveled as a demonstration
effort. No tile drainage has been installed.
3.14      Tokat.  The first irrigation works on this project were started
in 1937. The Gomenek Diversion Dam and the Right Bank Main Canal were
completed in 1945. The Almus Dam upstream on the Yesilirmak River was
constructed during the period 1959 to 1968 and first stored water in 1966.
With the regulated supply made available by Almus Dam, there were sufficient
dry season flows available and the Left Bank Main Canal was constructed.
A second diversion dam, the Tomkakkaya, was completed in 1969 and the main
canals serving the Omala Plain were completed in 1970. There is an open
1/   An elliptical reinforced concrete section, open at the top, which is
prefabricated at a factory and field-assembled on precast concrete
saddles.



- 7 -
drainage system but the drains art. not close or deep enough for the system
to be effective. A part of the drainage problem is caused by the flat slope
of the Yesilirmak River in the vicinity of Turhal, and the existing drains
need to be extended to where they can outlet to the river. There is extensive
flooding of the Left Bank lands in the vicinity of Lake Kaz caused by floods
originating in a tributary of the Yesilirmak River. By the end of 1971,
about 2,200 ha of project lands will have been leveled. No tile drainage has
been installed or other on-farm improvements made.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The project would include the rehabilitation and improvement of
existing irrigation and drainage systems; construction of additional irriga-
tion and drainage systems to serve new lands; provision of on-farm improve-
ments in the form of land leveling, surface drainage and tile drainage;
correction of salinity problems; and improvement of village roads. It would
also include provision of adequate credit and improvement of extension
activities. In addition, the project would provide for importation and local
purchase of equipment for operating and maintaining the irrigation and
drainage features; for use in land leveling and installing tile drainage;
for improvement of TOPRAKSU workshops at Antalya and Sivas; and for transpor-
tation of extension agents. Consultants would be retained to assist TOPRAKSU
in organizing their work and to assist in extension work with the farmers.
Training abroad would be provided for Government staff. When completed,
the project works would make some 50,000 ha fully suitable for intensive
irrigated agriculture. Annex 3 gives a more complete description of the
status of present facilities and the work to be done under the project.
4.02      Water Supply.  The Silifke and Koprucay projects would draw their
supplies from the unregulated flows of the Goksu and Koprucay Rivers,
respectively. Minimum flows of the Goksu River are about 150% of the maximum
daily projected water demand. In the case of Koprucay, minimum flows
recorded are about 30 m3/sec compared with a 28 m3/sec maximum demand.
The Tokat project would draw its supply from the flows of the Yesilirmak
River as regulated by Almus Dam. This reservoir has about 815 Mm3 active
capacity compared to an annual projected project water requirement of 200
Mm3. The water supply available to all three projects is therefore adequate
to meet the water requirements without shortage.
4.03      While the water supply is presently adequate to meet all the
projects' needs, it could be affected by future developments. Assurances
have therefore been obtained that except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Government would not permit the river flows to be depleted as a
result of other development works below the projects' minimum requirements.
4.04      Water Demand and Quality.  Irrigation water requirements have been
adequately computed. Farm irrigation efficiency has been set at 60%, and
conveyance losses after the project is completed and the systems lined are



- 8 -
estimated at about 10%. In all projects, the quality of water is highly
suited for irrigation use. Annex 4 gives more data on hydrologic aspects.
Status of Engineering
4.05      The specific work to be done under the project is fairly well
defined and no more investigative work is necessary on the irrigation and
drainage works.
4.06      The areas to be leveled in each project area by TOPRAKSU have been
identified by a field review while those requiring tile drainage have been
identified by DSI. On the Koprucay project, TOPRAKSU has made field permea-
bility tests in the drainage areas as a basis for determining drain spacing
and depth. Similar work would be carried out in the other projects. The
surface water drainage pattern would be coordinated with the land leveling
operation. First, a land leveling plan would be developed for each field
and then a plan for the surface drain outlet. Existing village roads in
the area need improvement and assurances have been obtained from Government
that the roads would be improved as required.
Training
4.07      The project would involve training abroad of DSI, TOPRAKSU and
Extension Service employees in irrigation system construction and operation,
land leveling, drainage and extension activities. Training assignments would
be in practical field applications and would be of two to six month duration
each. Most of such training would be in Europe and North America.
Cost Estimates
4.08      Projects cost estimates are given in detail in Annex 5 and
summarized below:
Percentage
TL (Million)          US$ (Million)    Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange
Civil Works
Irrigation and
Drainage             159.3   39.7   199.0  10.6    2.7    13.3        20
On-Farm Development   112.2   10.4   122.6   7.5    0.7        8.2       9
Equipment                 39.7   91.7   131.4   2.7    6.1       8.8      69
Consultants                1.5    6.0      7.5   0.1    0.4      0.5      80
Training                    -      1.5     1.5    -      0.1     0.1    100
Sub-total           312.7  149.3   462.0  20.9   10.0    30.9
Contingencies
Technical               27.2    5.0    32.2   1.8    0.3       2.1      14
Price                   38.4   15.0    53.4   2.6    1.0       3.6      28
Sub-total            65.6   20.0    85.6   4.4    1.3       5.7      23
Total           378.3  169.3   547.6  25.3   11.3    36.6       31



- 9 -
4.09      The cost estimates for both TOPRAKSU and DSI work are based on
determination of quantities taken from profiles, sample areas, or past
experience under similar circumstances. Unit prices have been taken from
a price list prepared annually by D6I for all categories of work let out on
contract. Contingencies have been added as 10% for unforeseen on civil works
items and 5% per year for escalation of prices on both civil works and
equipment. While DSI is exempt from paying duties on imported items for its
use, TOPRAKSU is subject to such taxes. An average figure of about 60%
of CIF value of imported equipment has been included as a local cost for
this component. The amount of such taxes is approximately TL 33 million
(US$2.2 million). No taxes would be financed under the terms of the credit
agreement.
Construction Schedule
4.10      All project works are scheduled to be completed in five years.
Annex 6 illustrates the physical implementation of the works during the period
of construction and the annual monetary requirements. The schedule of work
is realistic for DSI and well within the capability of TOPRAKSU, if properly
organized. Consultants would assist TOPRAKSU in organizing their work
(para 5.04).
Financing
4.11      The proposed IDA credit of US$18.0 million would be used to
finance the estimated foreign exchange component of civil works, the CIF
cost of imported equipment, the foreign exchange costs of consultants
and training Turkish personnel abroad, and about US$6.7 million of local
expenditures. The balance of the local expenditures would be financed
under Government budget to the various agencies involved. The borrower
would be the Government of Turkey.
Procurement
4.12      Traditionally, D6I has done most civil works by open competitive
bidding among Turkish contractors. Tender documents are prepared and include
the engineers' estimate based on unit prices published as applicable to all
of Turkey. Bids are then invited on the basis of a discount from the price
quoted. The discount is quoted against the total cost of the contract and
is applied to each payment item. The contractor must accept overruns of
quantities up to 30% of the contract value at the same unit prices. If
quantities overrun more than 30%, a new contract must be negotiated or a new
advertisement circulated. These procedures are not conducive to international
bidding and assurances were therefore obtained from Government that all
tendering under the project would be based on unit price bids.
4.13      In Silifke, lining of the main canal above the power plant can
be done only during periods when the power plant can be taken off the
line and irrigation service interrupted. The same principle applies to
lining of the Left Bank Main Canal in Tokat and to modifications to the
irrigation distribution system on presently irrigated lands. DSI proposes
to construct by force account these works and all others where construction



- 10 -
could conflict with maintaining water service. All the remaining DSI
construction activities would be done by contract under international
competitive bidding.  Contract work on Koprucay would largely involve the
installation of canalettes to be furnished by DSI.
4.14      On Seyhan and other projects in Turkey, TOPRAKSU has done all land
leveling and tile drainage by force account. Similar arrangements are
proposed on the present project. While Topraksu has developed expertise
in this type of works, it could not possibly cope in the future with the
entire country needs. Some of the work should be transferred to private
contractors and under the project, TOPRAKSU would therefore explore means
of contracting land leveling and the installation of tile drainage.
4.15      An assurance was given by the Government that within six months of
signing of the Development Credit Agreement, DSI and Topraksu would submit
a schedule of work to be accomplished on each of the Project Areas with
recommendations for specific work to be undertaken by each agency, either
by contract or by force account, giving reasons for such recommendations.
The agreement of the Association on the manner in which such work is to be
carried out, either through contract or by force account is to be a prerequi-
site for disbursement from the Credit Account. About US$6.0 million worth
of works are presently expected to be carried out by force account. To
foster contracting capability on TOPRAKSU work (para 4.14), the Association
htas recommended that tender documents be prepared to enable international
competitive bidding for a block of at least 1,000 ha of land leveling
and tile drainage in one contract in each of the project areas. The
location of such blocks would be discussed at the time of review of the work
schedule. In the event that there is no reasonable response to such a
tender, the conditions under which there has been a failure to receive
favorable bids would be discussed with the Association to determine if
further efforts to contract such work should be undertaken. If civil works
are proposed for force account execution for reasons insufficient in the
view of the Association, an equivalent amount could be canceled from the
credit.
4.16      About US$6.1 millions worth of equipment listed in Annex 7 would
be procured under international competitive bidding with a preference
margin for local contractors of 15% or the actual level of import duties,
whichever is lower. Should Government decide to procure any of these
items without international bidding, the corresponding sum in the credit
account would be cancelled. Assurances were obtained that items presented
in Annex 7, Table 1 would be purchased following international competitive
b:Ldding, and that import licenses would be issued promptly. About US$0.5
million worth of equipment (Annex 7, Table 2) would be reserved for local
pnocurement under normal Government bidding procedures and would not be
e]Ligible for reimbursement under the credit.
Disbursement
4.17      Disbursement for all civil works done under force account or by
ccntract would be at the rate of 46Z. Disbursement for equipment would be
against CIF cost net of taxes for those items imported and ex-factory



- l11 -
for local manufacturers. Disbursements for training and consulting services
would be against actual foreign exchange expenditures. A forecast of
quarterly disbursements is given in Annex 8.
Accounts and Auditing
4.18      Separate accounts would be kept for each of the projects by DSI and
TOPRAKSU. At present, accounts of these agencies are audited annually by an
Inspector of the Ministry of Finance, a procedure accepted in previous
operations and found to be satisfactory. Assurances were obtained that
the audited project accounts would be submitted to the Association within
four months after the closing date of the Turkish fiscal year, which ends
the last day of February.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
5.01      Completion of the three projects and development to their full
potential requires the coordinated actions of several agencies of the
Turkish Government. These agencies are (see Annex 9 for further detail):
(a) DSI (An agency of the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Energy) - would be responsible for constructing all project
irrigation and drainage works down to the farm unit;
(b)  TOPRAKSU (An agency of the Ministry of Village Affairs) -
would be responsible for carrying out all development works
on the farm itself, including leveling of lands, installing
tile and surface drainage facilities, adding soil amendments
and improving existing roads in each project area;
(c) Extension Service (An agency of the Ministry of Agriculture)
- would be responsible for educating farmers in modern and
improved methods of cultivation (irrigation methods, crop
varieties, pest control and such) in the project areas;
in addition, the Extension Service would be responsible for
inducing the required change in cropping pattern by expanding
the areas in higher value crops on suitable lands;
(d)  Agricultural Bank of Turkey (ABT) - an autonomous Govern-
ment agency under the Ministry of Commerce and the major
institutional source of credit to farmers and farmers'
cooperative societies in Turkey -- would be responsible
for supplying agricultural credit.
5.02      To coordinate the activities of these agencies, a committee,
consisting of the top local official of each agency would be formed in
each project area. This pattern is similar to that operating successfully
on the Seyhan project. In the case of Seyhan, the State Planning Organization



- 12 -
(SPO) in Ankara furnished a chairman for the committee. SPO is now being
reorganized under the new Government and will apparently not be involved
in project implementation in the future. While it would be desirable to
have a chairman from some other arm of the Government than one of the
directly involved agencies, this does not appear practicable at the present
time. Assurances were received from Government that a coordinating committee
would be established for each of the projects within three months of effective
date of the credit and that a chairman would be designated for each committee.
Assurances were also obtained that such committees would meet not less
than at three-month intervals and that each agenda would include: (a)
reports of previous period accomplishments, (b) presentation of a program
for implementation in the next period; and (c) discussion of plans for
coordination of respective activities. A resume of the meetings' minutes
would be prepared in English and transmitted to IDA for information. Annex
9 shows the organization of such committees.
5.03      The Seyhan Project has produced a successful extension effort which
has served as a pattern for services planned for the proposed projects. To
insure the development of an effective extension service for the project,
assurances were obtained from Government that: (a) it would appoint
a local extension coordinator in each project area to coordinate all
extension activities under the project; (b) the local coordinator would
be responsible for selection and training of foremen; (c) foremen would
be paid a reasonable amount for their participating, would be required
t:o follow recommended extension practices, attend regularly scheduled
meetings and bring to the meetings current agricultural problems of their
villages; (d) the program would be carried out for at least a 10-year
period; (e) adequate funds would be made available to the Extension
Service to operate and maintain vehicles and equipment.
Consultants
5.04      DSI has had considerable experience in constructing, operating and
miaintaining irrigation and drainage projects in Turkey and is considered
capable of processing work on these projects without assistance. llowever,
if in the opinion of the Association and Government outside assistance
should appear necessary, DSI would retain consultants to assist them in
design, preparation of tender documents and supervision of construction.
TOPRAKSU has had experience in on farm improvement work on Seyhan and other
projects in Turkey. While there has been a vast improvement in their perform-
ance on Seyhan project from the early years, they still do not operate
heavy equipment to its potential efficiency. To assist TOPRAKSU in organizing
the work, a firm would be employed to furnish two consultants to be stationed
at Koprucay and Tokat. The Extension Service also needs assistance in
organizing and coordinating extension services in the field. The same firm
would furnish two extension specialists, to be stationed at Koprucay andl
Tokat, to assist in this effort. Assurances were obtained from Government
that consultants as outlined would be retained on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association. Outline terms of reference and estimated
costs are given in Annex 10. The Silifke project would be assisted by
the consultants now serving the Seyhan project.



- 13 -
Saey of Dams,
5.05      The Tokat projct l    *I  deel)dt'llt *Itl thie tI itLig AlmutnI lhtiu 1a li I t(r
water supply.  Occasion-al inispection of Like dlaLl dald appUrteUdlit tedtUle.
is necessary to assure its continued reliability.  The most recent lnspection
was carried out in 1970 and showed the dam to be in good operating order.
Assurances were obtained that DSI would make a formal inspection of the
Almus Dam and appurtenant structures to determine whether there are any
deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the condition of such structures
or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation
of such structures which may endanger their safety and to take any remedial
action necessary. Inspections are to be made not less often than at 5-year
intervals and a copy of the inspection report is to be furnished the
Association.
Credit
5.06      Yields and production levels projected for the projects at full
development would be attained only if proper inputs of seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides are used and if farm machinery is available to farmers. This
requires provision of credit facilities. ABT serves the entire country and
has some 750 branches. Its policy is to give priority to serving as many
small farmers as possible; about 70% of its loan portfolio is in short-term
loans for seasonal credit, of which about one third are in default. The
effective interest rate of loans to farmers is 9-1/2%. Annex 11 gives
further data on ABT and loans made in the project areas.
5.07      Under the Fruits and Vegetables Export project Government has
agreed to make a comprehensive study to improve the organization and supply
of agricultural credit and the study should serve to effect improvements
in operations throughout Turkey. Appointment of consultants to make the
study, which is to be completed one year after initiation, is a condition
of effectiveness of that project. One of ABT's major problem is lack of
funds to meet all requests for credit and the bank's unwillingness to
favor any one part of the country or segment of agriculture over others.
This makes it possible to meet only a part of the credit requirements
in any one area. In the proposed project areas present credit requirements
are about TL 60 million per year. The incremental credit requirements
per year would be: Silifke, TL 7 million; Koprucay, TL 36 million; and
Tokat, TL 19 million. Credit needs would gradually increase from the
present level to about TL 120 million at full development in the tenth
year. About 90t of credit needs would be for short-term and the balance
for medium term.
5.08      In view of ABT's inability to provide adequate credit financing
in the past, assurances were obtained from Government that appropriate
short- and medium-term credit facilities would be provided at all times
in adequate amounts to farmers in the project areas. This same assurance
has resulted in satisfactory credit being furnished on Seyhan project.



- 14 -
Other Farm Services
5.09      Research.  The Tarsus Agricultural Research Station near Adana
carries out research on crops under irrigation and would serve the needs
of the Silifke project. Koprucay project is near the Regional Research
Station of the Ministry of Agriculture and also the Aksu Vegetable Research
Station. TOPRAKSU has a research station within the project area at Tokat
and there is also a State Farm operated by the Veterinary Service. Collect-
ively, the research needs of the three projects would be adequately served
from these facilities.  The main problem is translating research findings
into extension with the farmers. Under the project, it would be a function
of the extension coordinators to insure that this was accomplished.
5.10      Supply of Inputs.  Procurement and distribution of domestic and
imported fertilizers, insecticides and farm machinery are in the hands of
(a) private dealers; (b) cooperatives; and (c) three state economic enter-
prises -- Donatim (Agricultural Supply Organization), Agricultural Coopera-
tives, and Sugar Factories Corporation. Some shortages of supply have
occurred in recent years and total use has declined. The Government,
however, established the Committee for Reorganization of Fertilizer Supply
and Distribution in February 1971 and it has started to function so that
future supplies should be adequate.
Processing and Marketing
5.11      Silifke.  Processing facilities in the immediate vicinity of the
project are limited to those for flour and rice milling. Seed cotton is
transported to Mersin to be ginned for export, while most of the cereals
and fruits and vegetables now produced are consumed locally. Those surplus
to the local market are hauled to Adana, Tarsus, Mersin or to Ankara and
Istanbul.
5.12      Koprucay.  There are 17 saw and roller cotton gins, three cotton
seed oil factories, four flour mills, and a number of rice mills located
in the vicinity. The cotton is exported or utilized in a large textile
factory in Antalya and most of the cereals and vegetables are consumed
locally. There are organized wholesale vegetable markets in Antalya that
distribute locally and export surplus either to Ankara and Istanbul or to
]Europe.
5.13      Tokat.  All sugar beets produced in the area are processed into
sugar at the factory in Turhal, which is Government-owned and has a daily
capacity of 2,600 tons of beets. It normally works 120 to 190 days a year
1:o process the crop. Six other regions in addition to Tokat supply beets
to the plant, and funds have been allocated to increase its capacity to
6,000 tons per day. Most cereals, vegetables and fruits are consumed
:Locally although there are organized wholesale markets in Tokat and Amasya
lAidt distribute fruits and vegetables to Ankara and Istanbul.
-'Y.l4    Processing facilities and marketing arrangements are considered
adequate to handle the increased production from the three projects.



- 15 -
Operation and Maintenance
5.15      DSI would be responsible for continued operation and maintenance
of all project irrigation and drainage facilities under the direction of the
existing Regional and Project offices. The present operation and maintenace
costs and those with the project are given in detail in Annexes 12 and 13
respectively, and summarized below:
Present                           With Project
Total       Per ha        Ave per ha         Total         Per ha
(TL million)  irrigated   for project area (TL million)   (TL)
(TL)           (TL)
Silifke            0.7           140            140             2.7           540
Koprucay           2.1           230            100             7.7           350
Tokat              2.8           230            120             7.4           320
5.16      Power for pumping at the small plant on Omala Plain of the Tokat
Project and for the Koprucay project would come from power plants constructed
by DSI and recently transferred to the Turkish Electric Corporation. Power
is purchased under contract with the cost varying from 20 to 25 kurus per
kwh, (US 15 mills) depending on terms of delivery.
5.17      Maintenance of on-farm works such as leveling and tile and surface
drainage are turned over by TOPRAKSU to the individual farmer, who assumes
responsibility. It is too early to judge from the Seyhan experience how
effectively farmers will accomplish such maintenance but so far there is
every indication that the farmers can be relied on to do this. The
roads improved by TOPRAKSU are turned over to Yol Su Electrick (YSE), a
sister agency in the Ministry of Village Affairs. This maintenance is financed
by Government budget to YSE.
Water Charges
5.18      Existing legislation provides adequate authority to DSI to assess
and collect water charges on irrigation projects to meet operation and
maintenance costs and to amortize the investment with interest. Since
TOPRAKSU has no legal basis for assessing farmers for the on-farm work, any
collection of charges must be through DSI.
5.19      Present charges for irrigation water service are approved by a
Cabinet Committee and apply for one year. All D6I projects are shown on
the same tariff list. The projects are classified into seven groups for
determining operation and maintenance charges, depending on type of service
provided and whether pumping is involved. The rates for operation and
maintenance are set by individual crops per decare (0.1 ha) and bear a
relationship to the water requirement of the crop. For example, on the
Silifke project, the rate varies from TL 80 per ha for wheat to TL 500 per
ha for rice. At present, water charges actually imposed are insufficient to
meet the operation and maintenance costs. Annex 12 gives further details.



- 16 -
5.20      After construction of a project or an operating unit of a project
is considered complete, an additional charge is made for amortization of
investment. This is a flat charge regardless of crop, and for those projects
on which such levy is made, it varies from TL 40 to TL 170 per ha.
5.21      Penalty for late payment of water charges is set at 10% of the
charge, regardless of length of period. In the past, there has been a high
rate of delinquency as such a penalty constituted a cheap source of credit.
Mbre recently, however, DSI has stepped up enforcement and retains enforcers
in each operating organization. After a judgment declaring delinquency is
received from a special court dealing with these matters, the enforcer visits
t:he delinquent and takes sufficient of his possessions to sell at auction
t:o cover the debt.
5.22      Government is now considering reports on a study of appropriate
levels of water charges for the Seyhan project and a future policy on such
charges should evolve. Assurances were obtained from Government that on
t:he Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat projects, water charges would be assessed
amd collected to cover operation and maintenance costs and recover a reasona-
ble portion of the investment cost with due regard to the farmers' ability
to pay so that he would have an incentive to use project water. Such policy
as evolves from the Seyhan study would be applied in setting the charges
which would be subject to periodic review at intervals not exceeding five
rears between the Government and the Association.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.01      Present cropped areas vary between 80 and 90% of each project area.
The proposed intensities will increase to 130% in Silifke and Koprucay and
100% in Tokat. Future yields have been estimated at the levels currently
obtained on lands where irrigation is properly conducted and agricultural
practices, including extension services, are adequate. Local farmgate prices
are those prevailing in each project area. For economic analysis some price
adjustments have been made. Annex 14 gives cropping patterns with and
without the project, yields, prices and net returns.
6.02      The increases in net return in Silifke would result from a re-
duction in the area now devoted to winter cereals and a shift to tomatoes
and other vegetables, whose total production would be increased by some
25,000 tons.
6.03      On Koprucay, the incremental benefits result largely from the
increased production of seed cotton due to the completion of the irrigation
and drainage works and higher yields possible with better agronomic practices.
Cotton area would shift from 8,700 to 12,200 ha and future production is
estimated at some 43,000 ton of seed cotton or about 17,000 ton over the
present production. It is also envisaged that tomatoes, which at present are



- 17 -
not grown, will be in the future cropping pattern; the projected tomato area
is 1,600 ha and expected production, about 64,000 tons.
6.04      In Tokat project, incremental benefits are primarily due to the
increase in vegetable production and the introduction of alfalfa in the
cropping pattern. The vegetable growing area would be expanded from 1,000
to 2,600 ha; future production is estimated at about 75,000 tons compared
with some 20,000 tons obtained at present. Alfalfa would be grown on some
1,800 ha, yielding about 22,000 tons; this would allow improvement of the
considerable livestock population of the area. Benefits from livestock
have not been considered in estimating primary project benefits. Fruit
trees are at present relatively important in the area, covering some 1,200 ha;
a slight increase is proposed, up to 1,600 ha; future production would be
19,000 tons, or some 10,000 tons over the present production. Sugar beet
growing area would not be modified, but production is expected to increase
from 120,000 to 160,000 tons.
Market Prospects
6.05      Main crops would be cotton (Koprucay), and vegetables in all
three projects.
6.06      Cotton is a traditional export crop; at present Turkey exports
about 230,000 tons of lint and future exports are expected to increase.
Incremental production from Koprucay and Silifke projects --some 10,000 tons
of lint -- would represent 4% of the present level of exports. At projected
future world market prices (22 US 4 per lb fob Turkish ports), this additional
production would represent about US$4.4 million of foreign exchange earnings.
Annex 15 gives information on the outlook for cotton in the world market.
6.07      Incremental production of vegetables in Silifke and Koprucay projects
(about 90,000 tons) would be partially oriented to export, fitting the targets
of the Fruits and Vegetables Export Project (Loan 762-TU/Credit 257-TU). Pre-
sent level of fruits and vegetables exports is about 100,000 tons and is ex-
pected to grow to 360 - to 500,000 tons by 1975 1/. Additional production
of vegetables in Tokat would be absorbed mostly by the domestic market,
either for fresh consumption in the project area and Samsun region or for
processing.
Farmers' Income
6.08      Farmers' benefits are calculated at present domestic prices.  Pro-
duction costs (Annex 16) include all inputs but exclude family labor costs;
interest on short- and medium-term loans and water charges are included
1/   BASICO (GMEU), Feasibility Studies on the Turkish Fresh Fruit and Vege-
table Promotion, Frankfurt/Main.
Turkish Engineering, Consulting and Contracting Company, Market and
Transportation Study in Fresh Fruit, Vegetable, Meat and Fish Imports
Ankara (1970). Both studies referenced in the Fruit and Vegetables
Export Project Appraisal Report.



-'18 -
in farm budgets (Annex 17). In all three projects, farmers would be able
to pay operation and maintenance costs and make payments on capital charges.
The exact level of water charges would be determined by the Government after
completion of the Seyhan water study (para 5.22). The incremental inconme
available to typical farmers after payment of operation and maintenance
charges is illustrated in the following table. A reasonable portion of
this could be assessed to pay capital charges and still leave the farmer
an incentive to use project water.
Silifke    Koprucay    Tokat
Average Farm Size (ha)                    3            6         4
Incremental Income (TL per farm)    8,930        22,610      6,790
Incremental operation and
maintenance costs (TL per farm)    1,200          1,500       800
Incremental Income less operation
and maintenance costs (TL per
farm)                                7,730      21,110      5,990
Incremental Income less operation
and maintenance costs (TL per ha)  2,580         3,520      1,490
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Benefits to be derived from the project would be increased produc-
l:ion of crops from the 50,000 ha and increased employment and income. At
full agricultural production, about five years after completion of project
works, the annual net value of production from the three projects valued
at economic prices would be TL 260 million (US$17.3 million) as compared
to a present net production value at TL 119 million (US$7.9 million) and
a projected value of TL 137 million (US$9.1 million) for future conditions
without the project. The incremental net value of production due to the
project would be TL 123 million (US$8.2 million). Family labor has been
costed at zero, hired labor at the current wage rate of TL 20 per day.
7.02      The average life of project facilities has been assessed at 50 years.
Over this period, the economic rates of return would be 18% for Silifke; 19%
f-or Koprucay; and 12% for Tokat, where the climatic conditions restrict the
opportunity for double cropping. The analysis includes only the costs and
benefits of the project. No separate calculation of the cost of sunk
iLnvestments and their benefits has been made; data for such an analysis are
not available.
7.03      To measure the project's sensitivity to deviations from the most
probable assumtions, several alternatives have been considered. These
are: (a) construction period extended from five to seven years, investment
costs increased by 15%, and net incremental benefits starting in fourth



- 19 -
instead of second year; (b) operation and maintenance cost increased by
25%; and (c) benefits decreased by 10%. The lowest rates of return
correspond to the first alternative and would be 14% for Silifke; 16% for
Koprucay and 10% for Tokat. Annex 18 gives further details on project
economic analysis.
7.04      About 11,500 farm families would benefit directly from the project.
Without the project, the labor requirements are about 6,700 man-years. The
project would require about 14,300 man-years, or twice the present employ-
ment intensity. This increase could be met by family labor except at
Koprucay, where seasonal hired labor would be needed at peak periods
(planting and harvesting cotton, rice and tomatoes). This seasonal demand
would be about 200,000 man-days. The project would also generate additional
employment opportunities in processing agricultural products, such as the
cotton gins, the canning industries, and the sugar factory.
7.05      Development of the projects may in the case of Silifke and
Koprucay induce an adverse effect on off shore fisheries. Tokat likewise
may have some effect on riverine and off shore fisheries on the Black Sea.
Such effects would be minimal and are not evaluated.
7.06      The project is estimated to make a valuable contribution to
Turkey's balance of payments. To measure the project's foreign exchange
benefits, the total incremental production has been considered as either
additional export or import substitution. The present value for the life
of the project of net foreign exchange earnings (i.e. incremental gross value
of production at world market prices less incremental foreign costs,
discounted at 10%) is compared with the present net value of the incremental
local costs. Foreign exchange earnings are: Silifke US$10.2 million;
Koprucay US$37.2 million; and Tokat US$20.6 million. Local costs are:
Silifke, TL98.0 million; Koprucay, TL336.2 million; and Tokat TL250.6
million. Thus, the effective exchange rate of the projects are: Silifke,
TL9.6 per US$; Koprucay, TL9.0 per US$; and Tokat, TL12.3 per US$, all
three rates are more favorable than the current official rate of TL15 per
US$. Annex 18 gives detailed information on this analysis.
VIII. AGREEKENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points. The Government would:
(a)  not allow river flows to be depleted as a result of other works
below the minimum that is required for the projects, except as
the Association might agree (para 4.03);
(b)  follow international bidding procedures (para 4.12);
(c)  submit a schedule within six months of signing of the credit
Agreement to show specific civil works to be carried out by
contract and those by force account; approval of the schedule



- 20 -
by IDA would be a prerequisite to disbursement from the
Credit Account. Non concurrence on individual items by the
Association could be basis for cancellation of corresponding
portion of the credit (para 4.16);
(d) purchase equipment needed for project purposes by international
competitive bidding and issue import licenses promptly (para 4.16);
(e)  establish a separate coordinating committee for each of the
projects and designate a specific chairman for each committee
(para 5.02);
(f) appoint an extension coordinator for each project and
strengthen extension activities (para 5.03);
(g) retain a firm of consultants to assist TOPRAKSU and the Extension
Service (para 5.04);
(h) provide adequate short and medium term agricultural credit
(para 5.08); and
(i) assess and collect water charges (para 5.22).
8.02      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$18.0 million.
T'he borrower would be the Government of Turkey.
December 27, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Soils and Drainage
Silifke
1.        The classification of lands in Silifke was made in 1960 on a scale
of 1:25,000. Soils are hydromorphic alluvials, more than 2 m deep, deposited
as levee and basin soils from the Goksu River. The parent materials are
limestone and schist and soil texture varies from heavy to medium. The major-
ity are clay or clay loars. Soils are somewhat alkaline, with pH values be-
tween 7.5 and 9.0.
2.        The main deficiency is high salt content on the lands classed as V
as a result of poor drainage. Observation wells indicate that the water table
in these soils is highest in June at the end of the rainy season and lowest
in September. Impermeable layers are found more than 12 m below ground level.
Hydraulic conductivities range from 0.24 to 2.88 m per day. With adequate
drainage, the water table should remain at acceptable limits.
3.        Classification results, in ha, are as follows:
Net      Percentage
Class   Gross  Irrigable    of Net
I        978      950          19
II     1,506    1,400          28
III      646      600          12
V      2,247    2,050          41
Vl       233         0         -
5,610    5,000         100
Koprucay
4.        The classification of lands in Koprucay was made in 1958 and 1960
on a scale of 1:25,000. Soils are recent alluvials deposited mainly from
the Koprucay River and its tributaries. The parent materials are sandstone
and limestone. Close to rivers, soils are light to medium in texture; far-
ther away, they grade into heavy clays, particularly in the lower end near
the sea where the slopes are quite flat. Salinity was noted on portions of
the area and those considered too saline or not reclaimable were classed as
non-arable.
5.        The main deficiency in soils is the high water table in a portion
of the area and high salinity. Those lands that can be reclaimed have been
put in a non-arable class temporarily, pending provision of adequate drainage.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
A total of 2,750 ha in the Right Bank, presently gravity irrigated, would re-
quire deep open drainage. As this area is quite low and there is no adequate
outlet to the sea, pumping would be required to remove drainage water. The
wrater table fluctuates some 3 m annually under natural conditions. Permea-
bilities run between 0.24 and 2.88 m per day. With adequate drainage 'acil-
ities, the lands now classed as V should be permanently productive.
6.        Classification results, in ha, are as follows:
Net    Percentage
Class  Gross   Irrigable    of Net
I      2,067    1,900         9
II     7,800    7,300        33
III    9,989    9,400        42
V      3,812    3,600        16
VI    4,346       -          -
28,014   22,200       100
Tokat
7.        The lands in Tokat were classified in two stages -- the first was
in 1954/55 and the second 1967/68. All mapping was on a scale of 1:25,000.
Soils are mainly alluvial deposits of the Yesilirmak River. In the upper
reaches, the Omala plain consists of medium and light loams, but heavy clays
are encountered in lower areas. The parent materials are volcanic tuff, an-
desite, conglomerate, limestone and sandstones. About 2,000 ha on the
Kazova plain and 85 ha on the Turhal plain are alkali.
8.        Drainage is the major soil problem on the project. High water
tables, affecting about 11,500 ha, occur in most of the bottom lands and are
caused by seepage from the river, flow from adjacent higher lands and insuf-
ficient drainage outlets. The water table in the bottom lands varies from
0.3 to 1.5 m in depth. Hydraulic conductivity is generally high and over
2.0 m per day. The project would correct the drainage deficiency.
9.        Classification results, in ha, are as follows:
Net    Percentage
Class  Gross   Irrigable    of Net
I      1,602    1,500         7
II    10,348    9,720        42
III    3,481    3,270        14
V      8,983    8,410        37
VI     2,804      -          -
27,218   22,900       100
August 16, 1971



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TUrEY
TRRIGATOIN RERABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Farm Size and Land Tenure
Farm Size
1.        Average farm sizes are 3, 6, and 4 ha for Silifke, Koprucay and
Tokat projects, respectively. Details are shown in Table 1 and summarized
as follows:
(a)  Silifke.  Nearly half of the farms are below 2 ha and only
Z6 are above 10 ha. The average farm size and proposed
cropping pattern would allow the farm family to carry out
all farm operations without hired labor. In calculating
the farm budget, the average farm size of 3 ha has been
considered as representative.
(b)  Koprucay.  Farms below 2 ha represent about a fourth of
the total number of farms and account for 6% of the total
area. On the other hand, 11% of the farms are larger than
10 ha and cover 45% of the project area. In these larger
farms, potential family labor is not enough to meet labor
requirements in peak periods. To take into consideration
the effect of hired labor in the economy of the project,
'hired labor requirements have been computed on the basis of
an 8-ha farm. However, in calculating the farm budget,
the average farm size (6 ha) has been used.
(c) Tokat. Farms below 2 ha account for about one-third of the
total number of farms and represent 12% of the total area.
Only 3% of the farms are larger than 10 ha and represent 18%
of the total area. At present there is no need of hired labor
and the proposed cropping pattern would require hired labor
only on farms 20 ha or larger; this would have little effect
on the economy of the project and, therefore, has been ig-
nored. The average farm size (4 ha) has been used in calcu-
lating the farm budget.
Land Tenure
Wragmentation in all project areas is common, with individual
ownerships averaging four plots. The likelihood of further fragmentation
of small holdings has been taken into account in the economic benefits
analysts by using conservative projections of the area likely to be brought
under double cropping.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3,        A majority of the farm land is cultivated either by owners them-
selves or by hired managers; tenant farming is rare.
4.        The average farm family is six or seven persons, three of whom are
active in farm operations. Farming operations at seasonal peak labor periods
(planting and harvesting) are usually carried out jointly by groups of farm-
ers; hired labor is required only on Koprucay where cotton, rice and tomato
crops make such outside help necessary.
September 7, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Land Tenure
Size           Farms          Area        % Cumulative
(ha)        (No)   (%)    (ha)   (%        Farm  Area
Silifke      Less than 2        772   47       930   17       47    17
2-5           582   35    1,860   35        82    52
5-10          204   12    1,470   28        94    80
10-20           96    6       990   19    100    99
over 20            1   -         70    1      -    100
1,655  100    5,320  100
Koprucay    Less than 2    1,024   27    1,360    6           27      6
2-5         1,457   38    5,550   23        65    29
5-10          932   24    6,130   26        89    55
10-20          272    8    3,680   15        97    70
20-50          128    3    3,920   17    1on    87
over 50          17   -       3,030   13      -    100
3,830  100   23,670  100
Tokat        Less than 2    2,135   35    2,880   12          35    12
2-5         3,013   50   11,770   48        85    60
5-10          725   12    5,260   22        97    82
10-20          122    2    1,740    7        99    89
20-50           42    1        820    3    100    92
over 50          17   -       1,940    8      -    100
6,054  100   24,410  100
August 16, 1971






ANNEX 3
Page 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Present Status of Project Facilities and Work to be Performed
Silifke
1.        The Goksu Diversion Dam was under construction from 1942 to 1948.
The Left Bank Main Canal was completed in 1958 and the Right Bank in 1964.
Since the secondary and tertiary irrigation distribution system was con-
structed of earth, DSI has recently initiated a program to rehabilitate and
line it.
2.        The status of the existing irrigation and drainage system and the
proposed work is summarized as follows:
Proposed Work
Existing Situation      Raise   Concrete
Irrigation   Earth  Concrete  Masonry  Lining   Lining
------------------(km)--------------------
Left Bank
Main        8.59      -         -        -         8.59
Secondary   5.44    3.64       1.82     5.46       5.44
Tertiary   17.81   35.99        -        -        17.81
Right Bank
Main        3.97   16.32       1.66     0.46       5.17
Secondary   1.17    6.01        -        -         1.17
Tertiary   13.80   44.37        -        -        13.80
Drainage                 Constructed        Proposed Work
Main                      21.51                11.19
Secondary & Tertiary      23.96                39.88
3.        The project would rehabilitate and improve the existing irrigation
facilities and provide adequate drainage to fully develop irrigated agricul-
ture on 5,000 net ha now only partially developed. Works to be implemented
under the project would include:
(a)  lining with concrete those reaches of main and secondary
canals not now lined and, in a few instances, increasing
the height of the existing lining;
(b)  raising the grade and lining of those tertiary canals not
previously modified to give more head to distribute water
to the lands;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) constructing main and secondary canals to complement those
now existing;
(d) deepening to 2.0 m those existing tertiary drains that
have not been previously deepened;
(e) land leveling 3,300 ha;
(f) constructing drainage on 2,350 ha;
(g) constructing a surface drainage system on 3,300 ha; and
(h) improving existing village roads.
Koprucay
4.        Koprucay Diversion Dam was started in 1963 and completed in 1966.
The Right Bank and Left Bank Main Gravity Canals were begun in 1964 and are
now essentially completed, while the Right Bank and Left Bank Stage I pumping
plants and main canals are still under construction. Pumping equipment for
the two plants is on order. Completion of these canals and plants will be
accomplished under the current DSI budget and would not be part of the project.
The natural surface pattern is used to effect drainage and stream channels
have been improved to act as the main drains. An irrigation distribution
system, composed of a secondary and tertiary canalette system, has been
constructed to serve 5,200 ha by gravity on the Right Bank and 3,700 ha on
the Left Bank. These areas, except for a deep drain on the Right Bank, are
complete or will be in FY 1971 as far as DSI work is concerned; a similar
system has also been constructed to serve 530 ha in the Left Bank Stage I
pumping area.
5.        The existing system, in km, is summarized as follows:
Secondary  Secondary  Tertiary            Access
Area              Main    Canal    Canalette  Canalette  Drain  Roads
Right Bank gravity   34        9           66         107      125      234
R.B. Stage I pump    24        -           -           -        -        24
Left Bank gravity    20        -           50          53       36      106
L.B. Stage I pump    12        -            7          24       12       31
Total        90        9          123        184       173     395
6.        The project would complete the facilities necessary to fully devel-
op irrigated agriculture on a gross area of about 23,670 ha, of which 22,200
ha constitute the net irrigable area now only partially served by an irriga-
tion and drainage system. Works to be implemented under the project would
include:
(a) construction of deep drains and drainage pump station in the
presently irrigated Right Bank gravity area;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(b) construction of an irrigation distribution system and drain-
age system in the following units:
(i) Right Bank gravity area, 4,870 ha,
(ii) Right Bank Stage I pumping area, 4,840 ha, and
(iii) Left Bank Stage I pumping area, 1,000 ha;
(c) construction of pumping plants, irrigation distribution sys-
tem and drainage system in the following units:
(i) five areas on Right Bank, totaling 1,810 ha, and
(ii) three areas on Left Bank totaling 250 ha;
(d) completion of operation and maintenance headquarters at
Serik;
(e)  land leveling of 18,000 ha;
(f)  installation of tile drainage on 6,900 ha;
(g)  application of soil amendments on 840 ha;
(h)  construction of surface drainage on 18,000 ha; and
(i) improvement of farm roads throughout area.
7.        The work to be done by DSI under the project is further summarized
below. The distribution system would utilize canalettes. Service roads
would be provided along each main and secondary irrigation canal and along
drains.
Secondary      Tertiary               Access
Area               Canalettes   Canalettes    Drains   Roads
------------------ (km)------------------
Right Bank gravity           24           152          42         66
R.B. Stage I pump           47           169           -          47
R.B. Stage II pump           38            31           15        53
R.B. Aksu pump                6            22           -          6
L.B. Stage I pump             9            51            3         9
L.B. Stage II pump           12             3           -         12
Total Proposed        136           428           60        193



ANNEX 3
Page 4
The pumping plants under the project have the following characteristics:
Hydraulic
Capacity          Lift
Pump                        m3/s             m
Right Bank gravity deep drain           2.1              4
Stage II Right Bank - P1               0.20              9
- P2             0.14              11
- P3             0.32              12
- P4             0.90              14
- Aksu           0.63             20
Stage II Left Bank  - P1               0.12             15
- P2             0.08               9
- P3             0.12              18
8.        TOPRAKSU activities involve those works that are done on-farm and
involve leveling, tile drainage, soil amendments, surface drainage and farm
access roads.
9.        Land leveling requirements were judged on the basis of a field re-
view of the entire area, and most of the work will be light to moderate.
Steeper areas were eliminated.  Land leveling work on areas requiring it has
been classified as follows:
Light      0-450  m3/ha   4,860 ha
Medium   450-900  m3/ha  11,880 ha
Heavy   over 900  m3/ha   1,260 ha
10.       The areas requiring tile drainage were first delineated by DSI in
its land classification. On these areas, TOPRAKSU then established a network
of auger holes to observe ground water levels and perform permeability tests.
Two drain spacings were used in estimating tile drainage work:
4,300 ha   100 m spacing
2,600 ha   150 m spacing
Such drains would be installed at 1.8 to 2.0 m depth.
II.       The soil amendments involve adding gypsum to alkali areas, totaling
840 ha. Surface drainage waterways are to be constructed after the land
leveling is complete and involves waterways approximately 60 cm wide and 60
cm deep, with 1:1 side slopes. Farm roads, on an average, require about 6 m
of road improvement per ha of irrigated land. TOPRAKSU does not purchase
right-of-way for new roads but improves existing roads to bring them up
to all-weather, single-lane standards.
Trkl:t_
1;'.      Construction on the project started in 1937, with the Diversion Dam
aI(i tlIv Riglht Bank Main Canal completed about 1945.  This canal fully utilized



ANNEX 3
Page 5
the available low flows in the Yesilirmak River. Almus Dam was constructed
from 1959 to 1968 to provide storage to augment the low flows of the river.
It started operation in 1966.
13.       The Right Bank Main Canal is in generally good shape.  While it is
only lined for about 30% of its length, there is no real need to line the
rest; only the Turhal plain portion of the canal would be improved and ex-
tended. The secondary canals on the Right Bank are also complete except for
those on the Turhal plain. Only a portion of the tertiary canals are con-
sidered complete.
14.       The Left Bank Canal is only partially lined.  This canal traverses
geologic formations different from those on the Right Bank and is subject
to landslides. The more troublesome reaches have been lined by DSI under
its own program and remaining reaches would be lined under the project. The
secondary and tertiary canals would be improved and new ones constructed.
15.       The existing drainage system is inadequate and would be deepened
and improved under the project. Related to the drainage problem of the area
is the slope of the Yesilirmak River in the vicinity of Turhal, where the
upper part of a 20-km reach is flatter than the lower part. This causes some
backwater on project lands. The channel of the river would therefore be
shortened by cutting across six ox bows of the existing channel to steepen
the slope and induce degradation. If this does not bring about the desired
amount of degradation, the channel would be deepened by a maximum of 1 m in
the center, tapering off to no cut at each end of the 20-km reach. Below
this area, the slope of the river bed is steeper than the artificial grade
so there should be no tendency for the river to redeposit and aggrade in the
excavated reach.
16.       Also related to the drainage problem is the flooding of the lands
in the vicinity of Lake Kaz. The Bohcebasi stream originates in the hills
above the project and occasionally carries flood water to the Yesilirmak.
Project works would include diverting this stream into Lake Kaz and construct-
ing levees on three sides of the lake and an overflow spillway from the lake
into the river.
17.       A further drainage problem is caused by the streams that drain the
hills on both sides of the project. In most cases, water from these streams
crosses the main canals in an overchute, but since the stream channels are
not improved across the irrigated land, they damage the fields during and
after rain storms. These channels would be improved.
18.       The project would complete the facilities necessary to fully devel-
op for irrigated agriculture 22,900 ha now partially served by an irrigation
and drainage system. Works to be implemented under the project would in-
clude:
(a) improvement of about 161 km of main, secondary and tertiary
irrigation canals;



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(b) construction of about 94 km main, secondary and tertiary
irrigation canals;
(c) improvement of 186 km of drainage canals;
(d) construction of 106 km of drainage canals;
(e) improving Lake Kaz for flood control and drainage;
(f) improvement of 20 km of channel in the Yesilirmak River;
(g) land leveling on 15,000 ha;
(h) installing tile drainage on 3,860 ha;
(i) applying soil amendments on 2,085 ha; and
(j) improving surface drainage and roads for 15,000 ha.
19.       The reaches of irrigation and drainage canals to be improved in-
volve the following (if new construction is required, it would be to the same
standard):
(a) Main Irrigation Canals - lining of existing canals and im-
provement of cross drainage, structures and service roads.
(b)  Secondary Irrigation Canals - lining of existing canals and
construction of cross drainage structures and a service road
if none now exists.
(c) Tertiary Irrigation Canals - primarily construction of con-
crete lining and structures but no service road.
(d) Main Drains - deepening to 3 to 3.5 m, and construction of
service road if none now exists. Also, extension of drain
to outlet in river.
(e) Secondaries - deepening to 2.5 to 3.0 m; no service road.
(f) Tertiaries - deepening to 2.0 to 2.5 m; no service road.
20.       The lengths of canals and drains involved in the project (in km)
are the following:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
To Be         To Be
Improved    Constructed
Kazova Right Bank - Irrigation
Main canals                        5.4           7.3
Secondaries                        7.4          23.8
Tertiaries                        15.9          29.0
Kazova Right Bank - Drainage
Mains                             22.4           -
Secondaries                        3.8          52.3
Tertiaries                        19.1          27.6
Kazova Left Bank - Irrigation
Main canals                       35.4          11.8
Secondaries                       22.4           4.4
Tertiaries                        74.7          17.2
Kazova Left Bank - Drainage
Mains                             25.4           8.0
Secondaries                       35.6           8.1
Tertiaries                        79.8           9.7
Lake Kaz - Levee                                   3.0
- Spillway
Yesilirmak Channel Improvement    20.0
21.       TOPRAKSU determined that areas with surface slopes in excess of 3%
and orchard areas with slopes of less than 3% did not require leveling. They
then deducted the area leveled in 1970 and 1971, which left a net area of
15,000 that would require some leveling. This area was then further classi-
fied to indicate the amount of work needed:
Average
Hectares  % of area   m3/ha
Land smoothing      1,770        12        200
Light leveling      4,980        33        350
Medium              6,300        42        630
Heavy               1,950        13       1,200
15,000      100         560
22.       The average of 560 m3/ha compares with 570 m3/ha experienced on
Seyhan. The total excavation quantity was then computed and the work items
to be accomplished by TOPRAKSU were determined to be as follows:
Unit   Quantity
Land leveling        m3    8,400,000
Tile drainage        km           386
Soil amendments    tons           113
Surface drainage    km            525
Feeder roads         km            90
Areas requiring tile drainage were identified by DSI. The criterion on spac-
ing, used as a basis for estimating quantities, was 100 m. Soil amendments



ANNEX 3
Page 8
involve applying gypsum to certain alkali soils, while the surface drainage
works involve field channels leading to the open drainage system constructed
by 1)SI. This would be done in conjunction with the land leveling. Feeder
road construction by TOPRAKYT involves the improvement of existing roads.
General -- Applicable to All Projects
91.       Equipment.  The project would purchase equipment for use by:
(a) D5ST - to operate and maintain the projects after completion
and to use on force account work to the extent it is avail-
able;
(b)  TOPWRA.KS  - to perform land levellng and install tile drain-
age by force account; and
(c) Extension - for transportation of field agents.
24.       Training.  The project would also support training abroad for DSI
TOPRAKSIT and Extension Service employees in the fields of land leveling,
drainage, irrigation practices, operation and maintenance of projects and
extension activities. It would cover the foreign exchange cost of such
training and involve only the payment of tuition and per diem. The Govern-
ment requires that all transportation costs be paid in local currency.
September 7, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION RE-ABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Water Supply, Requirements, Adequacy of Supply and Quality
Silifke
1.        The water supply for the Silifke project would come from the unreg-
ulated flow of the Coksu River. Three dam sites upstream of the project have
been studied for power development, but no construction work is imminent.
Records of stream flow are available from 1953 to the present at stations
located 20 km upstream of the dam (1953 to 1960) and 10 km upstream (1961 to
present). The main annual flow occurs during the winter rainy season with
low flows in the period July through October. The lowest daily flow recorded
is 17 m3/sec. This compares with a maximum diversion requirement for the
project of 12.6 m3/sec. Thus, there is adequate water for project use.
There are no other major uses made of Goksu flows at the present time.
2.        Water requirements for the project were estimated using the Blaney
Criddle consumptive use method. Pertinent figures in mm are:
March April May June July Aug Sept. Oct. Total
Crop water requirements          3      24   68  142  198  168   87   13    703
Farmgate requirement (60%
efficiency)                    4      40  113  237  330  280  145   22  1,171
Diversion requirement (90%
efficiency after
rehabilitation)                5      44  124  260  363  308  159   24  1,289
Thus, the per ha use is about 12,890 m3 annually.  Maximum requirements are
in July with 3,630 m3/ha, or 1.36 1/sec/ha.
3.        The quality of the water is moderately saline with no sodium
hazard. rlectrical conductivitv is 370 micromhos/cm and SAR 0.40. The
water is suitable for irrigation.
4.        Floods with flows in excess of 2,000 m3/sec occur about once in
eight years. These cause local flooding in the town of Silifke and low-
lying lands along the river. Project lands are not affected.
Koprucay
5.        The water supply for the Koprucay project would be derived from the
unregulated flows of the Koprucay River. Records of flow have been kept since
1940 at a gaging station about 10 km upstream from the existing diversion dam
at a point where the contributing drainage area is about 1,942 km2. The aver-
age annual run-off is 2,590 Mm3, most of which occurs in the winter rainy



ANNEX 4
Page 2
period. Minimum flows during the months of peak irrigation water use -- June,
July and August -- are therefore controlling as far as judging adequacy of
the water supply. The minimum flows recarded during the period of record
for these months are:
June      40.7    m3/sec
July      30.9    m3/sec
August    25.4    m3/sec
Since these flows exceed maximum project irrigation demands for the respec-
tive months (maximum demand is in July (about 29 m3/sec)), it is concluded
ithat the available supply is adequate to meet the irrigation requirements
without shortage. No other major uses are made of water from the Koprucay
River at the present time.
6.        Water requirements were computed using the Blaney Criddle consump-
tive use method. Pertinent figures by months are given in mm:
April May June July Aug. Sept. Total
Crop water requirement                     15   37  113  171  119   21    476
Farm requirement (60% efficiency)          26   61  189  284  198   35    793
Diversion requirement (85% efficiency)   31   72  222  334  233   41    933
I'hus, the use of water approximates 9,300 m3/ha annually. The peak month is
July with 3,340 m3/ha, which is equivalent to about 1.25 1/sec/ha.
7.        The quality of the water is suitable for irrigation, being of mod-
erate salinity and low in sodium. Electrical conductivity is 410 micromhos/cm
and SAR is 0.10.
Tokat
8.        The water supply for the Tokat project will come from the Yesilirmak
River, as regulated by the existing Almus Dam. The mean annual flow at the
Dam for the period 1939-1967 was 770 Mm3; readings varied from a low of 409
in 1951 to a high of 1,040 Mm3 in 1963. The Almus Dam and Reservoir has a
total capacity of 950 Mm3, of which 815 Mm3 are active, with the balance in
dead storage. Reservoir operation studies have been made for the period of
record of inflows and indicate that it could meet the anticipated irrigation
demand of 196 Mm3 per year and generate 92 million kwh of firm power annually,
w:ith no shortage of water.
9.,       Water requirements for the project were estimated using the Blaney
Criddle consumptive use method. Average diversion requirements are as fol-
lows, using 60% as farm irrigation efficiency and 80% as conveyance efficiency.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Diversion Requirement
April    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.    Nov.    Total
mm      52       56     227     259      143       67       -        52      856
Mm3     12       13      52       59      33       15       -        12      196
ln.       The quality of the water is moderately saline with low sodium
hazard.  The electrical conductivity is 450 micromhos/cam and SAR 0.35.
11.       Floods on the Yesilirmak River are largely controlled at Almus Dam.
Those resulting from short intense rain storms occur in the side streams en-
tering the nroject from the hills.
19.       While there is ample water in the Yesilirmak River, as regulated
bv Almus Dam, future plans for development in the basin call for construction
of a new diversion dam (Kizildere) and an out-of-basin diversion to the pro-
nosed Yokluce hvdro plant for power production. Present thinking is that
onlv water surplus to the in-basin irrigation needs would be diverted for
power and that irrigation would have the prior claim to use of water.
August 16, 1971






ANNEX 5
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Silifke Project - Cost Estimates
(TL Thousand)            _(US $ Thousand)
Local  Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total
1.   CIVIL WORKS
1,1,     DSI
1.1.1.   Construction                            10,500   4,500   15,000       700   300   1,000
1.1.2.   Engineering                              2,250      -      2,250      150    -       150
1.1.3.   Land acquisition                         1,500      -      1,500      100    -       100
Sub-total DSI                           14,250   4,500   18,750      950   300   1,250
1.2.     Topraksu
1.2.1.   Construction
a)  Land levelling                      4,660      520    5,180      310    40      350
b)  Tile drainage                        4,120     460    4,580      270    30      300
c)  Surface drains & roads               1,660     190    1.850      110    10      120
Sub-total construction             10,440   1,170   11,610       690    80      770
1.2.2.   Engineering                              1.160      -      1160        80    -        80
Sub-total Topraksu                      11,600   1,170   12,770      770    80      850
Sub-total Civil Works                            25.850   5.670   31.520   1,720   380   2,100
2.   EQUIPMENT
2.1.     DSI  (0 & M)                               150   5,700    5,850        10   380     390
2.2.     Topraksu (construction)                  5,100 7 17350   12,450      340/ 490       830
2.3.     Extension Service (transportation)         250     -         250       10    -       10
Sub-total Equipment                               5,500  13,050   18,550      360   870   1,230
Total Direct Cost (1) + (2)                      31,350  18,720    50,070  2,080 1,250   3,330
3.   CONTINGENCIES
3.1      Technical (10% on  Civil Works)          2,580      570    3,150      170    40      210
3.2      Price increase (5% compounded)
3.2.1.   Civil Works                              3,300      760    4,060      220    50      270
3.2.2.   Equipuent                                  220   1,250    1,470        20    80      100
Sub-total price increase                 3,520   2,010    5,530      240   130      370
Sub-total Contingencies                           6.100   2,580    8,680       410   170      580
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                    37,450  21,300   58.750  2,490 1 420    3
1/ Includes taxes on imported equipment.
December 1971



ANNEX 5
TURKEY                                                           Table 2
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Koprucay Project - Cost Estimates
(TL Thousand)            (US $ Thousand)
Local    Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign Local
1.   CIVII WORKS
1.1.     DSI
1.1.1.   Construction
a) Right Bank
i)  Drainage works in area at present irrigated        2,060       880      2,940      130      70     200
ii)  Completion of gravity area                         14,060    3,140    17,200       930    210   1,140
iii)  Pumping Area, Stage I                              18,050    4,330    22,380   1,200    290   1,490
iv)  Pumping Area, Stage II                              7,460    2,110      9,570      500    140      640
v)  Akau Pumping Area                                   2,380       550     2,930      160      40      200
b) Left Bank
i)  Pumping Area,  Stage I                              4,660    1,080      5,740      310      70     380
ii)  Pumping Area,  Stage II                             1,430       370     1,800      100      20     120
c) Office and Services Buildings                           1.000       500      1.500      70      30      100
Sub-total Construction                            51,100   12,960    64,060   3,400    870   4,270
1.1.2.Engineering                                                9,610      -         9,610      640     -       640
1.1.3.Land acquisition                                           6,550      -         6 550     440      -       440
Sub-total DSI                                     67,260   12,960    80,220   4,480    870   5,350
1.2.     Topraksu
1.2.1.   Construction
a) Land leveling                                          25,600    2,840    28,440   1,710    190   1,900
b) Tile drainage                                          10,540    1,170    11,710       700      80      780
c) Soil amendment                                          3,780      -        3,780      250      -       250
d) Surface drains and roads                                9,060    1,010    10,070       600      70      670
Sub-total construction                            48,980    5,020    54,000   3,260    340   3,600
1.2.2.,  Engineering                                             5,400                5,400      360     -       360
Sub-total Topraksu                                54,380    5,020    59,400   3,620    340   3,960
Sub-total Civil Works                                          121,640   17.980   139,620   8,100  1.210   9,310
EQUIPMENT
2.1.     DSI
2,1.1.   Pumps and motors                                           300    2,850      3,150       20    190      210
2.1.2.   Radio system                                               -        450        450      -       30       30
2.1.3.   0 & M                                                   2.400   11,100    13,500        160    740      900
Sub-total DSI                                      2,700   14,400    17,100        180    960   1,140
2.2.     Topraksu
2.2.1.   Construction                                           15,450 1 25,350    40,800   1,030 111,690   2,720
2.2.2.   Workshop                                                   750-1    750      1,500       50-v   50      100
Sub-total Topraksu                                16,200    26,100    42,300   1,080  1,740   2,820
2.3.     Extension Service (transportation)                        450      -           450       30    -         30
Sub-total Equipment                                             19,350    40,500    59,850   1,290  2,700   3,990
Total Direct Cost (1) + (2)                                    140,990    58,480   199,470   9,390   3,910  13,300
3.   CONTINGENCIES
3.1.     Technical (10% on Civil Works)                         12,160   1,800       13,960      810    120      930
3.2.     Price Increase (5% compounded)
a) Civil Works                                            15,530   2,360       17,890   1,030    160   1,190
b) Equipment                                                 650   3.220       3,870       50    210       260
Sub-total price increase                                16,180   5,580      21,760   1,080    370   1,450
Sub-total Contingencies                                         28,340   7,380       35,720   1,890    490   2,380
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                             169,330  65,860    2          11280  4,400  15,680
1/ Includes taxes on imported equipment
December 1971



ANNEX 5
TURKEY                                                    Table 3
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Tokat Project - Cost Estimates
(TL Thousand)          (US $ Thousand)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign Total
1. CIVIL WORKS
1.1.     DSI
1.1.1.   Construction
a)  Right Bank
i)  Irrigation                                    5,660   2,430    8,090    380    160    540
ii)  Drainage                                     12,620   5,410   18,030    840    360  1,200
b) Left Bank
i)  Irrigation                                   13,730   5,890   19,620    920    390  1,310
ii)  Drainage                                     13,800   5,910   19,710    920    400  1,320
iii)  Lake Ka- Improvement                          1,170      930    3,100    140       60    200
iv)  Yesilirmak Channel Improvement                3,850   1,650    5,500    260    110    370
Sub-total Construction                       51,830  22,220   74,050  3,460  1,480  4,940
1.1.2.   Engineering                                       11,110    -       11,110    740       -     740
1.1.3.   Land acquisition                                  142870    -       14,870    990       -     990
Sub-total DSI                                    77,810  22,220  100,030  5,190  1,480  6,670
1.2,     Topraksu
1.2.1.   Construction
a)   Land levelling                                    20,710   2,300   23,010  1,380    150  1,530
b)   Tile drainage                                      6,440     720    7,160    430       50    480
c)   Soil amendment                                     4,130    -        4,130    280      -      280
d)   Surface drains                                    10,410   1,160   11,570    690       80    770
Sub-total Construction    '                      41,690   4,180   45,870  2,780    280  3,060
1.2.2.   Engineering                                        4,590    -        4,590    300       -     300
Sub-total Topraksu                               46,280   4,180   50,460  3,080    280  3,360
Sub-total Civil Works                                         124,090  26,400  150,490  8,270  1,760 10,030
2.  EQUIPMENT
2.1.     DSI (O & M)                                          600  16,500   17,100       40  1,100  1,140
2.2.     Topraksu                                                1/
2.2.1.   Construction                                      13,0501'20,850   33,900    870g 1,390  2,260
2.2.2.   Workshop                                             7501/   750    1,500       50-,   50    100
Sub-total Topraksu                               13,800-121,600   35,400    920 21-44   2,360
2.3.     Extension Services (transportation)                  450    -          450      30  ___        30
Sub-total Equipment                                            14,850  38,100   52,950    990  2,540  3,530
Total Direct Cost (1) + (2)                                   138,940  64,500  203,440  9,260  4,300 13,560
3.  CONTINGENCIES
3.1.     Technical (10% of Civil Works)                   12,410   2,640   15,050    830    170  1,000
3.2.     Price Increase (5% compounded)
3.2.1.   Civil Works                                       18,260   4,100   22,360  1,220    270  1,490
3.2.2.   Equipment                                            420   3,290    3,710       30    220    250
Sub-total Price Increase                         18,680   7,390   26,070  1,250    490  1,740
Sub-total Contingencies                                        31,090  10,030   41,120  2,080    660  2,740
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                            170,030  74,530  244,560 11,340  4,960 16,3oo
1/ Includes taxes on imported equipment.
December 1971






ANNEX 6
TURKEY                                                                Page 1
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF CONSTRUCTION
CALENDAR YEAR                      1 972        1 9 73       1 9 74        1 9 75       1 976        TOTAL
-DSI
MAIN IRRIGATION CANALS (kn)               _                                                                     14.2
u        IRRIGATION NETWORK (km)                             _      .             Q                                      43.7
O        MAIN DRAINAGE CANALS (km)                                            _                                          11.2
DRAINAGE NETWORK (km)                                            .   16                                         39.9
TOPRAKSU
n3LAND LEVELING (h7)                                                   70           70      ,     730        3,300.0
TILE DRAINAGE (ha)                         270                        520           5            520         2,350.0
SURFACE DRAINS AND ROADS (ha)            _3              730                 730      0          730         3,300.0
D S I                                                      _       _        _<_ 
RIGHT BANK IRRIGATION NETWORK
GRAVITY AREA (km)                  _3.0_                      _                                             176.2
tst. STAGE PUMPING AREA (km)                                 2_72.                                          216.2
2nd. STAGE PUMPING AREA (km)                                      23 68.0
AKSU PUMPING AREA (km)                                                                                      28.0
O        LEFT BANK IRRIGATION NETWORK;_                                          ___
Ist. STAGE PUMPING AREA (km)          _       _     ,                           _                           62.2
2nd. STAGE PUMPING AREA (km)    ____                                            15.0                        15.0
I  >     ~~~DRAINS ( km )                             _57_ 72
O        SERVICE ROADS (km)                         54_                        446___                                   192,7
TOPRAKSU. 
LAND LEVELING (ha)                                     3             5000          6, 000       3,000       18,000.0
TILE DRAINAGE (ha)                          D0 1.       I 700        11,700                     1,300        6,900.0
SOIL AMENDMENT (ha)                        200_000202840.0
SURFACE DRAINS AND ROADS (ha)             13                 0       5             6,000       3,000        18,000.0
DSI__
MAIN IRRIGATION CANALS
IMPROVEMENT EXISTING WORKS (km) _11.0                9             .            1 7          10.64.8
PROPOSED WORKS (km)                                                                                         19.1
IRRIGATION NETWORK
IMPROVEMENT EXISTING WORKS (km)  _                21.           3               72           74             1204
PROPOSED WORKS (km)                _68.3 923.0.                                 16 A        11.8_
MAIN DRAINAGE CANALS
u            IMPROVEMENT EXISTING WORKS (kmi)       8,7           9.7       _  14.0 _        3.119                       47.8
O            PROPOSED WORKS (km)                                                                                          8.0
DRAINAGE NETWORK.
IMPROVEMENT EXISTING WORKS (km)        67,8                2       33.37                     5.5138.3
O           PROPOSED WORKS (km)                                                                          17    8         97.7
LAKE KAZ LEVEES (km)                                                                                             3.0
YESILIRMAK CHANNEL IMPROVEMENT (km)                                                                             20.0
TOPRAKSU
LAND LEVELING (ha)                        1,000        3,000         4            4, 0050.0
TILE DRAINAGE (ha)                         400          9                                                    3,860.0
SOIL AMENDMENT (ha)                        200          500            000         5
SURFACE DRAINS AND ROADS (ha)             1,000            0        4,000        4,000         3,000        15,000.0
IBRD - 6061(R)






ANNEX 6
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(TL Million)
Calendar Year                   1972      1973    1974      1975     1976      Total
SILIFKE
Civil Works
DSI                         5.04      6.90    6.81        -        -       18.75
TOPRAKSU                    1.51      2.82    2.82      2.81     2.81      12.77
Sub-total                   6.55      9.72    9.63      2.81     2.81      31.52
Equipment                     4.29    10.40    3.86         -        -       18.55
Contingencies                 1.26      2.36    2.93      1.07     1.06       8.68
Total                      12.10    22.48   16.42       3.88     3.87      58.75
KOPRUCAY
Civil Works
DSI                        33:,:3    20.2i   19.69      6.99       -       80.22
TOPRAKSU                    3.75    11.41   18.06    15.15    11.03        59.40
Sub-total                  37.08    31.62   37.75    22.14    11.03    139.62
Equipment                    1,'.55    35.51   11.79        -        -       59.85
Contingencies                 4.33    11.65   10.76       4.83     4.15      35.72
Total                      53.96    78.78   60.30    26.97    15.18    235.19
TOKAT
Civil Works
DSI                        27.93    19.38   17.45    17.12    18.15    100.03
TOPRAKSU                    3.47    10.40   14.50    13.26       8.83      50.46
Sub-total                  31.40    29.78   31.95    30.38    26.98    150.49
Equipment                     9.71    30.70   12.54        -          -      52.95
Contingencies                 3.86      9.65    9.63      7.83    10.15      41.12
Total                      44.97    70.13   54.12    38.21    37.13    244.56
Total Direct Cost             111.03   171.39  130.84    69.06    56.18    538.50
Consultants                     1.50      1.50    1.50      1.50      1.50      7.50
Training                        0.50      0.50    0.50        -         -       1.50
Grand Total                   113.03  173.39  132.84    70.56    57.68    547.50
December 1971






TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Equipment Subject to International Competitive Bidding
Price               Silifke                   Koprucay                Tokat                  Total
(US$ '000)   No.t)               Cost (US$ '000)  (No.) Cost (US$ '000)  (No.)  Cost(US$ '000)
DSI
For Operation and Maintenance
Motor grader (110/125 hp)                        20         1           20            2             40        3            60          6           120
Crawler excavator (I c.y.)                       35         1           35            3            105        4           140          8           280
Crawler tractor (60/75 hp)                       15         1           15            2             30        2            30          5            75
Crawler tractor (110/130 hp)                     30         2          60             1             30        3            90          6           180
GraAe-all (wheel type)                           55         1           55            3            165        4           220          8           440
Loader (1-3/4 c.y.)                              20         1           20            2             40        3            60          6           120
trailer (30 ton)                                40         -           -                            -         1            40          1            40
Dump truck (10 ton)                              11        7           77           14            154        20           220         41           451
Station wagon (4 w.d.)                            5         1            5            1              5        1             5          3            15
Pick-up (4 w.d.)                                  3         4           12          10              30       10            30         24            72
Compressor (125 c.f.m.)                           4         1            4            1              4        1             4          3            12
Sprayer (boom type)                              10         1           10            1             10        1            10          3            30
Water stage recorder                              1         1            1            3              3        5             5          9             9
Current-meter                                     1         1            1           3               3        2             2          6             6
Sub-total                                                       315                         619                     916                   1,850
Spare Parts (20%)                                                      63                          124                    184                      371
Sub-total                                                       378                         743                   1,100                    222
Pumps and motors                                                           -                          190                     -                       190
Radio system                                                                                           30                                              30
Total cif Cost                                                  378                         963                   1,100                   2,441
TOPRAKSU
isor construction of on-farm works
Motor grader (100 hp)                            18         1           18            3             54         2           36          6           108
Tractor (wheel type, 60 hp)                       4         1            4            4             16        2             8          7            28
Scraper (7/9 c.y.) and crawler
tractor (110/130)                               33         5         165            25            825       20           660         50         1,650
Bulldozer (120 hp)                               35         1           35            3            105         3           105         7           245
Trencher                                         29         1           29            2             58         3           87          6           174
Crawler excavator (3/4 c.y.)                     30         1           30            1             30         1           30          3            90
Loader (wheel type; 3/4 c.y.)                    15         1           15            2             30         3           45          6            90
Tractor with semi-trailer (30 ton)               35         1           35            2             70         1           35          4           140
Portable lubricating equipment                   12         1           12            3             36         2           24          6            72
Portable workshop                                30         1           30            2             60         1           30          4           120
Pickup 4wd                                        4         3           12            5             20         9           36         17            68
Station Wagon or Jeep type (4 wd)                 5         2           10           11             55         6           30         19            95
Bus (40 passenger)                               10         -           -             1             10         -            -          1            10
Spare parts                                                                                        321                    265                      679
Sub-total                                                                                     1,690                  1,391                    3,569
Workshop                                                                                            5                      5                     10a
Total CIP cost                                       51,7 0                                                          1T 1                     3,669          e-
Grand Total Equipment                                           866                       2,703                   2,541110



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Equipment Reserved for Local Procurement
Price             Silifke                  Koprucay                   Tokat                  Total
(US$ '000   (No.) Cost (US$ '000)  (No.) Cost(US$ '000)  (No.) Cost(US$ '000)  (No.)Acet (uS$ t O0)
DSI
For Operation and Maintenance
Flat bed truck (5 ton)                                   5.5        -           -            3          16.5          2           11.0        5         27.5
Water tank                                               6.0        1          6.0            2          12.0         3           18.0         6        36.0
Truck mounted crane                                     40.0        -           -            2          80.0          -            -          2         80.0
Concrete mixer (250 L)                                   1.2        1          1.2           2           2.4          2            2.4        5          6.0
Vibrator                                                 0.3        1          0.3           2            0.6         2            0.6        5          1.5
Welding machine                                          2.2        1          2.2            -          -            1            2.2        2          4.4
Generator (3 kw)                                         0.7        1          0.7           2            1.4         2            1.4        5          3.5
Paint compressor                                         0.7        1          0.7           1           0.7          1            0.7        3          2.1
Sprayer                                                  0.5        1          0.5                       0.5          1            0.5        3          1.5
Sub-total                                                              11.6                     114.1                      36.8                 162.5
Spare Parts (20%)                                                              2.3                      22.8                       7.4                  32.5
Sub-total                                                              13.9                     136.9                      44.2                 195.0
Pumps and Motors                                                                -                       20.0                       -                    20.0
Total DSI                                                              13.9                      156.9                     44.2                 215.0
TOPRAKSU
For Construction of on-farm works
Land plane (60 ft) with 70/80 hp wheel tractor           6.7        2         13.4                      13.4          2           13.4        6         40.2
Land leveler                                             6.7        1          6.7           1           6.7          -            -          2         13.4
Bump-truck                                               7.3        2         14.6           2          14.6          3           21.9        7         51.1
Trailer mounted fuel tank                                2.0        1          2.0           4           8.0          2            4.0        7         14.0
Sub-total                                                              3                          42.7                     39.3                  118.7
Spare Parts                                                                   15.0                      29.4                      27.4                  71.8
Total                                                                  51.7                       72.1                     66.7                  190.5
Workshop                                                                              -                       16.3                      16.3                  32.6
Total  TOPRAKSU                                                        51.7                       88.4                     83.0                  223.1
EXTENSION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                     m x
Transportation                                                                10.0                      30.0                      30.0                  70.0   "J
September, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursementsl/
IDA Fiscal Year                                Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                     at End of Quarter
1972/73                                        (US $ Million)
December 31, 1972                                            '5
March 31, 1973                                               2.3
June 30, 1973                                                3'5
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                           4.7
December 31, 1973                                            5.9
March 31, 1974                                                7.1
June 30, 1974                                                 8.5
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                          10.1
December 31, 1974                                           11.5
March 31, 1975                                               12.7
June 30, 1975                                                13.8
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                          14.6
December 31, 1975                                            15.0
March 31, 1976                                               15.5
June 30, 1976                                                16.0
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                           16.4
December 31, 1976                                            16.9
March 31, 1977                                               17.4
June 30, 1977                                                18.0






ANNEX 9
Page 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Agencies Involved in Implementing the Project and
Their Coordination
1.        DSI is headed by a Director General, with headquarters in Ankara.
There are 18 regional offices throughout the country, each one managed by
a Regional Director. Each region, in turn, has field offices, as appropriate,
to handle specific project activities. The pertinent regional offices and
project offices are as follows:
Project     Region No.    Region Office        Project Office
Silifke         VI           Adana               Silifke
Koprucay        XIII          Antalya            Serik /1
Tokat           VII           Samsun             Tokat
/1   Construction activities handled from Antalya.
Operations are from Serik.
All construction, operation and maintenance of project facilities and purchase
of equipment for DSI activities would be handled through the established
organizational channels.
2.        TOPRAAKSU has an organization pattern similar to that of DSI, with
the pertinent regional offices at Mersin for the Silifke project, Antalya
for Koprucay and Sivas for Tokat. There is a project office at Tokat but
none at the other projects. Field offices would be established at Silifke
and Serik to oversee directly the field activities. TOPRAKSU is somewhat
hampered in accomplishing on-farm work as it must get each farmer's permission
to enter his land to do the land leveling or install tile drainage. The
farmer normally plants wheat on the areas in which he allows such work to
be done so that it can be carried out after the wheat harvest and before the
onset of the winter rains. With close cooperation between farmers and
TOPRAKSIJ, as evidenced at Seyhan, effective on-farm work can be accomplislhed.
3.        The Extension Service is headquartered in Ankara.  Field operations
are organized along administrative lines, with a Provincial Director in each
of the 67 provinces. Field offices are established in 630 county seats. The
Extension agents, assisted by technicians, are assignied 10 to 30 villages
each. The Provincial Director normally has a team of 10 specialists, which
he can allocate to work anywhere in his province. The Elxtension Service
employs some 3,800 people, of which some 1,700 have had technical training.
There is no formal program for in-service training of staff. Of the 630
counties, 110 have no transport facilities. The current budget for travel



IANNEX 9
Page 2
per techlnician is TL 135 per annum, which restricts drastically the agents'
field contact with the fanners.  Most present activities are regulatory,
including duties as compiling lists of inputs for fertilizers, pesticides,
seeds; these lists are translated at Ankara into national requirements.
The pertinent Local Extension Organization involved in the projects is:
Province
Project        Hleadquarters         County Office
Silifke            Adana             Silifke
Koprucay           Antalya           Serik and Manawgat
Tokat              Tokat             Three counties involved
4.        The Seyhan project extension activities are organized as an
integrated service headed by a Director. This integrated service comprises
a team of specialists at project headquarters to provide a uniform and
consistent approach to all extension problems. Farmer participation is
assured by the appointment of foremen who live in the villages and are
generally acceptable to all concerned. The foremen, in the case of Seyhan,
are paid a wage of TL 30 per day. Each is initially given one month's
training at a research station and receives additional intensive training
each winter. When he returns to his own farm, he applies procedures learned
during the training and he gives advice to his fellow villagers, who observe
the success of his practices. The foremen are required to attend weekly
meetings with the project extension staff who discuss with them current
problems brought to their attention by villagers. An itinerary for the
following week is also planned so that each foreman is visited by at least
one extension specialist officer during the following week. Thus, coordina-
tion is achieved and frequent close contact between extension agents and
representative farmers is insured.  Much of the success of this system at
Seyhan may be attributed to the active participation of extension consultants
(a consortium of ECI, United States and TAHAL, Israel.



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART (*)
Project Coordination Committee
Chairman:  Appointed by Government from
membershiT
Members: Regional Director, DSI
Regional Director, Topraksu
Provincial Director, uxt. Serv.
Director, Agr. Bank, Local Br.
Local Coordimnator of Extension
DSI                             TOPRAKSU                     EXTENSION SERVICE                   AGRICULTURAL BANK
Responsible for planning,          Responsible for on-farm           Responsible for providing           Responsible for supplying
design, construction, opera        development works                  technical assistance and           credits to farmers
tion and maintenance.                                                services to farmers
(*) Each project would have its own organization
August, 1971
to






ANNEX 10
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Outline terms of Reference for Consultants
TOPRAKSU  (2 men - 3 years each)
1.        The land leveling and tile drainage consultants should have at
least 10 years' experience in field supervision of heavy equipment. It
would be desirable that each also have experience in actual land leveling
and tile drainage installation using crawler scrapers and tile laying
machines.
2.        Principal duties would include:
(a) training equipment operators to improve performance;
(b) lay out sequence of machine operations to achieve
highest efficiency from machines;
(c) supervise preventive and heavy maintenance procedures; and
(d) assist in issuing tender documents and supervising activities
under that portion of the work offered for contract.
Extension Service (2 men - 5 years)
3.        The extension experts should be senior men with at least 10
years' experience of supervision of an extension program. Principal
duties would be to supervise and train the extension coordinators and
provide guidance to them in establishing a coordinated extension effort
in their Project areas.
Costs
4.        The costs of the consultants are estimated at US$30,000 per man-
year for a total of 16 man-years or US$480,000. An additional US$20,000
is allowed for other expenses.






A"77  11
^are 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
1.        Most of the institutional credit available to farmers in Turkey is
provided by the Agricultural Bank (ABT), with headquarters in Ankara. ABT's
750 branches achieve a dense coverage of the country, placing it within the
reach of farmers all over Turkey, an essential situation for an effective
agricultural credit system. ABT provides finance to individual farmers and
to the agricultural cooperatives. The agricultural credit cooperatives
(ABT's main clannel for extending short-term credit to farmers) and the sales
cooperatives and their unions (Government instrument for commodity, marketing
and price supports), constituted under the provisions of Special Laws 2834
and 2934, are under ABT control and supervision.
2.        Bank personnel number over 17,000, including about 1,000 university
graduates; the rest are mostly high school graduates and commercial trainees.
Their competence and experience are mostly in the fields of banking, credit
transactions and accounting. There are only about 200 agriculturalists for
the entire ABT system and only half of these are university trained. Many
staff members with restricted academic backgrounds have reached senior posts,
but do so through active in-service training and specific permanent training
arrangements.
3.        Branches report directly to the head office.  They enjoy some
freedom in conducting their work, but must operate within the framework of
lending policies and rules set forth by the head office.
4.        All Turkish farmers are eligible for ABT loans, provided they can
furnish adequate security and have no overdue loans. There are ceilings to
amounts that can be given to a single farmer or for a specific project but
loans in excess of ceilings can be made. Amounts are usually granted on the
basis of predetermined cost estimates of investments in the case of medium-
and long-term loans, and a portion of standard estimated operating costs or
unit prices of crops in the case of short-term loans for production or mar-
keting. Loans for raising productivity and those under supervised credit
programs and, in general, under special funds, are based on field appraisals
and actual cost estimates.
5.        Short-term loans are, at the most, for one year but postponements
and renewals are frequently granted. Terms of loans for equipment, farm ma-
chinery and livestock are up to five years, without grace periods. Long-
term loans may be up to 20 years, with grace periods up to seven years, as
in the case of those for orchard plantations.



AA7hMv 1 
6.        Since the monetary reform of August 1970, standard rates of agri-
cultural loans are 10-1/2%, irrespective of term. Rebates of 1-1/2% are
made to borrowers by Government for direct loans from the bank and 2% on
loans made through cooperatives. A supervision commission of 0.5% is charged
by the bank, but farmers have no taxes, fees or stamp duties to pay. Effec-
tive rates of charges paid by farmers to the bank are, therefore, 9-1/2% per
annum.
7.        Short-term loans represent about 70% of the total loan portfolio,
and medium- and long-term loans about 12%, with overdue, adjusted and bad
loans making up the balance. About 40% of loans are short-term to farmers
and agricultural credit cooperatives, and 30% are loans to sales coopera-
tives, the Agricultural Supply Agency, and some other beneficiaries. Short-
term loans to farmers are intended to provide them with working capital for
crop and livestock production. A wide range of loan categories also supplies
farmers with funds for on-farm investment and plantation of farm orchards and
construction of farm buildings. The overall amount of investment loans was
only TL 1 billion as of December 31, 1969.
8.        In line with its basic law, ABT's agricultural credit operations
are generally socially motivated. This affects the efficient allocations
of resources, which are generally inadequate, anyway, for financing both
farmers and institutions with short-term working capital requirements. This
shortage of credit facilities appears to have resulted in some slowdown,
particularly in borrowings for fertilizers purchase and for on-farm invest-
ments.
9.        Efforts made by ABT to increase its investment credit have met
with little success. In fact, the lending pattern for ABT reflects, primar-
ily, demand from an overwhelming majority of small-scale farmers for whom
investment opportunities are restricted. ABT's shortage of long-term finance,
its consequent rationing of loans, and inadequate promotion have also had a
significant bearing on predominance of short-term credit. Insufficient at-
tention has been given by ABT to the need for expanded technical services
and to development and lending programs.
10.       The following tables give status of lending on each project area.
August 16, 1971



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND CONMLETION PROJECT
Silifke Project
Loans by the Agricultural Bank in the Project Area (1970)
County of Silifke                                      Project Area
Amount.h/
Value           Number       Overdue        Number of         Value       Number of
Kind of' Credit                                   of Loans        (TL '000)    Loans overdue   (TL 100           Loans
A.  Short Term '
1.  Operation (seasonal)       3,321.1        2,438            1.608.6         747            491.8          220
2. Marketing                       20.2           1                -            -               20.2            1
3.  Fishing                       41.1           14                -            -
4. Agricultural Cooperatives 3,643.1            -                 _              -          1,&804.1       1,479
Total                      7,025.5        2,453            1,608.6         747          2,316.1        1,700
B. Medium Tenn/
1.  Equipment                    847.8            89               _             -            117.1            16
2.  Land Acquisition              707.5          27                _             _              6.7             2
3. Yield Improvement               -              _                 _            _               _
4.  AID (Equipment)               18.9           16                 6.9           7            14.0             3
5.  Land and Water Works           -              -               16.0            2              -              -
6.  AD  (Land and Water Works)   -              _ 
Total                      1,574.2          132               22.9           9            137.8           21
C. Long TermW/
1.  Supervised&'                  297.0           42               -              -           .41.3             5
Total                        297.0           42                 _             _41.3                         5
GRUiD TOTAL                8,896.7        2,627            1,631.5         75G          2,495.9         1726
Amounts overdue from previous years.                                                   .                                 1
j Up to one year.
y/ Up to five years.
Five years or longer.
k/A ma1l Tercentage given as short terTa.



TURKEY
IRRTGATION REHARTT,TTATTON AND CIMPTRPTIO  PROJECT
Koprucay Project
Loans by the Agricultural Bank in the Project Area (1970)
Number of           Amount l                Number of
Kind of Credit                             Value                 Loans             Overdue-              Loans Overdue
(TL '000)                                 (TL '000)
A. Short TermaY
1  Operation (seasonal)               7,794.1               1,546               1,712.2                   525
2.  Agricultural Cooperatives         ll,639.7                -                     -                       -
3.  Sales Cooperatives                   388.8                -                
Total                       19,822.6              1,S546               1,712.2                  525
B.  Medium Terr /s
1.  Equipment                          3,692.Li4               367                    3.3                    3
2. Tractor                                -                    _
3.  Agriculture Industries                13.5
4.  Installations                         -
5.  Land and Water Works                  26.0                   3              
6. Land Acquisition                    2,814.0                 164                  24h.                     9
7.  Productivity                          20.0                   1               _  _
Total                         6,565.9                535                   27.7                   12
C.  Long Term 
1.  Supervised                           192.3                  24                 _                        _
Total                           192.3                  24
GRA.ND TOTAL                 26,580.8              2,10                1,739.9                  537
1/  Amounts overdue from previous years.
E  Up to one year.                                                                                                        P A
3/ Up to five years.
Includes TL 19.0 from AID funds.                                                                                      H
5/ More than five years.
August 1971



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Tokat Project
Loans by the Agricultural Bank in the Project Area (1970)
Number           Amount 1/              Number of
Kind of Credit                             Value                 of Loans           Overdue/            Loans Overdue
(TL 1000)
A. Short Term,/
1. Operation (seasonal)                2,307.1                2,594             1,197.3                  873
2. Marketing                              _                      _                  _                      _
3. Fishing                                _
4. Agricultural Cooperatives           3,913.9                                   __
Total                         6,221.0               2,594              1,197.3                 873
B.  Medium Term3/
1.  Equipment                            332.8                   33                 _
20  Land Acquisition                     193.2                   42
3. Yield Improvement                       6.3                    7                 -                     -
4. AID (Livestock)                         6.2                    6                  3.1                   3
5.  Land and Water Works                  -                      -                   -                    -
6. AID (Land and Water Works)             -                      -                   -__
Total                           538.5                   88                 3.1                    3
C.  Long Term,
1.  Supervised                         1,543.0                  386              1,806.5                 344
Total                         1,543.0                  386             1,806.5                  344        |t
Gt?AND TOTAL                  8,302.5                3,068             3,006.9               1,220         D
Amount overdue from previous years.
2/ Up to one year.
j  Up to five years.
/  Five years or longer.
August 1911






~NNEX 1''
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Present Operation and Maintenance Costs and Water Charges
Operation and Maintenance Costs
1.        At present, annual costs for operating and maintaining irrigation
projects throughout the country are calculated at DSI Headquarters. The
operation and maintenance cost allocated to any given project is made up by
four items:
(a)  cost of equipment, including operators' salary;
(b)  cost of personnel, calculated at a fixed rate of TL 60
per ha;
(c)  cost of energy, calculated at a fixed rate of TL 150 per
ha served by pumping, either for irrigation or drainage;
and
(d)  other maintenance costs estimated as a lump sum.
2.        Operation and maintenance costs attributed to Silifke, Koprucay and
Tokat projects in 1970 are as follows:
Irrigated   0 & M Costs
Area     Total   Per ha
(ha)     (TL M)   (TL)
Silifke      5,360/1   0.73    137
Koprucay     9,190      2.10    228
Tokat       11,900       2.8    232
/1   Including pumping areas which have
been excluded from the project.
Water Charges
3.        Since all three projects under consideration are not completed,
present water charges cover only operation and maintenance costs. The tariffs
for 1971 are listed below:



A?.PTFYv I)
Gravity Irrigation Pumping Irrigation
Silifke &
Koprucay   Tokat    Silifkc & Tokat
----(TLtha)-
Winter cereals          80        60            120
Cotton                 200       160            300
Sugar beet             200       160            300
Rice                   500       400            750
Maize                    70       70            110
Forage                  60        60             90
Peanuts                 120      120            180
Sesame                  80        80            120
Tobacco                 180      140            270
Beans                   120      100            180
Melons                  120      100            180
Potatoes                180      140            270
Onion and garlic       140       110            210
Other vegetables       260       210            390
Strawberry             260       210            390
Citrus                 400       320            600
Orchard                280       220            420
4.        Available data show that annual water charges actually imposed are
insufficient to meet the annual operation and maintenance costs allocated to
the projects. For Silifke and Koprucay projects, water charges imposed in
1970 covered 82% and 35% respectively of their operation and maintenance
costs. Actual data related to these two projects are shown below:
Year   Water Charges       Amount Collected-/
(TL)               (TL)         (7')
Silifke    1964    356,699.66          356,595.06       98.5
1965    790,804.32         779,099.72       9.2
1966    823,641.60         819,649.69       99.3
1967    662,534.34        654,811.04        99.0
1968    570,603.95        532,560.45        93.0
1969    843,712.37        686,381.98,2    81.5
1970    599,618.70         205,787.79/-    34.3
Koprucay   1968    360,778.00          355,872.00       99.0
1969    901,949.00        728,263.00        80.0
1970    978,416.00      1,015,120.00       103.0
/1   Includes arrears.
/2   Collection not completed.
August 16, 1971



ANF v 1 I
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Costs with Project
Equipment
1.        Table 1 shows in detail the annual operation and maintenance cost
of the equipment as well as the salaries of operators. Amounts correspond-
ing to eacl project, expressed in TL million, are:
O&M    Salaries   Total
Silifke     0.5       0.6        1.1
Koprucay    1.1       1.3        2.4
Tokat       1.5       1.7        3.2
Personnel
2.        Table 2 gives the staff required by each project, indicating type
and number of positions (exclusive of equipment operators) and corresponding
salaries. The personnel budgets, in TL million, are:
Silifke      0.6
Koprucay      1.6
Tokat        1.4
General Expenses
3.        These have been estimated at 12% of the sum of equipment and per-
sonnel costs; the results, in TL million, are:
Silifke      0.2
Koprucay     0.4
Tokat        0.6
Depreciation
4.        Useful life of the equipment is shown in Table 1.  Considering the
equipment assigned to each project, the annual depreciation costs, in TL
million, are:
Silifke      0.6
Koprucay      1.5
Tokat         1.9



ANNEX 1I1
Page ?
'The unit cost of energy is TL 0.22 kwh. The annual power require-
ments and costs have been estimated as follows:
Power           Cost
(million kwh) (TL million)
Silifke        0.3             0.1
Koprucay        7.1             1.6
Tokat          0.5             0.1
LAn,yL,ortation
6,.       The operating costs (exclusive of salaries) of the vehicles provided
I.or Extension Service are estimated at the same level as those of similar ve-
1-tcles of the DSI list, and are in TL million:
Silifke      0.1
Koprucay     0.2
Tokat        0.2
,,m mr
The total operation and maintenance costs of each project, in TL
1CfI.iin, are tabulated below:
Silifke   Koprucay   Tokat
EquiDment                         1.1        2.4       1.?
Personnel                        0.6         1.6       1.4
General Expenses                 0.2         0.4       n .k
Depreciation                     0.6         1.5       1.9
Iower                            0.1         1.6       0.1
Tcansportacion                   0.1         0.2       0.2
Total                       2.7         7.7      7.4
Uni: estimates (TL per ha)        540        350       320
,viigust 16, 1971



ANNEX 1 3
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Annual Costs and Useful life of the Equipment
Operation and  Operatorts    Useful
Item                               Maintenance      SalarY          Life
(TL 1000)     (TL '00oo       (years)
Crawler excavator (1 c.y.)                   35              41            10
Crawler tractor (60-75 hp)                   24              25            10
Crawler tractor (110-130 hp)                 o0              38            10
Grade-all (wheel type)                       24              25            10
Loader (1-3/4 c.y.)                           8              22            10
Trailer 30 ton)                              30              36            15
Dump truck (10 ton)                          32              22             6
Station wagon (4w.d.)                        12              20             6
Pick-up (4 w.d.)                             16              20             6
Compressor (125 c.f.m.)                       7              18            15
Sprayer (boom type)                           8               6            20
Water stage recorder                          -              12            20
Current-meter                                 -              24            20
Motor grader (100/125 hp)                    27              40            20
Flat bed truck (5 ton)                       15              20             6
Water tank                                   14              20             6
Truck mounted crane                          32              20            10
Concrete mixer (250 1)                        4              18            20
Vibrator                                      4               6            20
Welding machine                               6               9            20
Generator (3 kw)                             2.5              3            20
Paint compressor                              1               6            20
Sprayer                                       2               6            20
August, 1971



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Project Staff
Position                   Salary       Silifke                Koprucay               Tokat
(TL)    (No.) (Cost, TL)       (No.) (Cost, TL)      (No.)   (Cost, TL)
Pro-ject manager             44,400      1      44,400          1      44,400         1       44,400
Engineer                     40,000      -        -             3     120,000         3      120,000
Irrigation technician         33,000     1      33,000          -        -            -
Surveyor                      21,000     1       21,000         2      42,000         2       42, OU
Topographer                  19,000      1      19,000          2      38,000         2       38,000
Assistant surveyor           15,000      1      15,000          2      30,000         2       30,000
Dam operator                  20,000     1      20,000          3      60,00C         3       60,000
Pump operator                 20,000     3      60,000         13     260,000         2       40,000
Ditclrider                    18,000     6     108,000         26     468,ooo        24      432,000
Collector                     15,000     1      15,000          3      45,000         2       30,000
Mechanic                      20,000     1      20,000          2      40,000         3       60,000
Assistant mechanic            15,000     1      15,000          2      30,000         2       30,000
Electrician                   20,000     1      20,000          2      40,000         2       40,000
Construction foreman          25,000     1      25,000          2      50,ooo         2       50,000
Steel worker                  19,200     1      19,200          2      38,400         2       38,400
Carpenter                    19,200      1      19,200          2      38,400         2       38,400
Laborer                      13,000      3      39,000          6      78,000         6       78,000
Administrative technician    30,000      -        -             1      30,000         1       30,000
Treasurer                    15,000      1      15,000          1      15,000         1       15,000
Clark                        13,000      2      26,000          2      26,000         2       26,000
Secratary                     13,000     1      13,000          1      13,000         1       13,000
Office assistant              10,000     2      20,900          3      30,000         4       40,000
Guard                         12,000     2      24,000          2      24,000         4       48,000         d >
Gardener                      12,000     1      12,000          1      12,000         2       24,000
-                  -                                              CD 
Total                              34     602,800         84   1,572,200        75    1,367,200         N 
August, 1971



ANNEX 14
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHA3ILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Silifke Proiect. Cropping Patterns and Net Returns-L
Farm-gate      Gross Value        Production      Net Value of
Crop                   Yield       Prices        of Production         Costs        Production       Area    Net Return
(ton/ha)   (TL/ton)       ---------------(TL/Ha)------------------   (ha)   (TL Million)
a) Without Project
Wbeat                3.0            900          2,700              590             2,110        1,000          2.1
Barley               2.4            720          1,730              320             1,410          250          0.4
Seed cotton          2.0          2,700          5,400            1,670             3,730          100          0.4
(2,500)        (5,000)                            (3,330)                     (0.3)
Rice (paddy)         3.0          1,600          4,800            1,500             3,300        1,200          4.0
(1,000)        (3,000)                            (1,500)                     (1.8)
Peanuts              2.0          3,250          6,500              980             5,520          800          4.4
(2,520)        (5,040)                            (4,060)                     (3.2)
Sesame               0.5          3,100          1,550              300             1,250          250          0.3
Watermelons         20.0            400          8,000            1,140             6,860           100         0.7
Tomatoes            30.0            400         12,000            7,740             4,260          200          0.8
Vegetables            -            -             7,800            1,290             6,510          100          0.7
Citrus              27.0          1,120         30,240            7,300            22,940          170          3.9
(680)      (18,360)                            (11,060)                     (1.9)
Orchards            15.0          1,260         18,900            5,640            13,260           80          1.0
(1,000)      (15,000)                             (9,360)                     (0.7)
Fallow                -            _              _                _                 _             750           -
Total                                                                                         5,000         18.7
(12.9)
b) With Project
Wheat                4.0            900          3,600            1,020              2,580         600          1.5
Barley               3.0            720          2,160              750             1,410          400          0.6
Seed cotton          3.0          2,700          8,100            2,070             6,030          300          1.8
(2,500)        (7,500)                            (5,430)                     (1.6)
Rice  (paddy)        4.0          1,600          6,400            1,920             4,480        1,200          5.4
(1,000)        (4,000)                            (2,080)                     (2.5)
Peanuts              2.5          3,250          8,130            1,090             7,040          900          6.3
(2,520)        (6,300)                            (5,210)                     (4.7)
Tomatoes            40.0            400         16,000            8,890             7,110          600          4.3
Vegetables            -            -             7,500            1,850             5,650           500         2.8
Fodder              18.0            400          7,200              760             6,440           200          1.3
Citrus              32.0          1,120         35,840            9,650            26,190          200          5.2
(680)      (21,760)                            (12,110)                     (2.4)
orchard             18.0          1,260         22,680            6,890            15,790           100         1.6
(1,000)      (18,000)                            (11,110)                     (1.1)
Second Crops
Peanuts            2.2          3,250          7,150            1,090             6,060          600          3.6
(2,520)        (5,540)                            (4,450)                     (2.7)
Sesame             0.5          3,100          1,550              410             1,140          200          0.2
Vegetables          -            -             8,650            2,400             6,250          700          4.4
Total                                                                                         6,500         39.0
(30.1)
l/ Net returns are calculated upon two types of prices; first, domestic prices prevailing in 1970; second, for
purposes of economic analysis, prices have been adjustad when necessary to the future projected   world
market level.
October, 1971



ANNEx i4
Table 2
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND CCMPLETION PROJECT
Koprucay Project. Cropping Patterns and Net Returns-/
Gross       Pro-
Farm-gate  Value of    duction  Net value of          Net
Cr<                  MYield    Prices    Production  Costs    Production   Area  Return
(to/a) (TL/ton) - - -- a)--______  (~TLilion)
a)  Without Project
Wheat (dry)          2.7         900      2,430        670       1,760    7,800      13.7
Earley (dry)         1.6         720      1,150        370         780      400       0.3
Sesame (dry)         0.4      3,100       1,240        340         900      800       0.7
Seed cotton (dry)   0.6       3?000       1,800        480       1,320    1,800      2.4
(2,500)    (1,500)                (1,020)             (1.8)
Seed cotton          2.9      3,000       8,700      2,200       6,500    8,700    56.6
(Irrigated)                  (2,50o)    (7,250)                (5,050)            (43-9)
Rice (paddy)         3.0       1,600      4,800      1,500       3,300       700     2.3
(1,000)    (3,000)                (1,500)             (1.1)
miize                4.0       1,100      4,400        730       3,670        70     0.3
Tinatoes            30.0         400     12,000      4,740       7,260        70     0.5
Watermelons         25.0         400     10,000      1,140       8,860        70     o.6
Micultivated          -          -           -         -           -      1,790       -
Total                                                                22,200    77.4
(62.9)
b) With Project
Whekt                3.5         900       3,150       850       2,300    3,300       7.6
Maize                5.0       1,100      5,500      1,000       4,500    3,300    14.9
Seed cotton          3.5      3,000      10,500      2,700       7,800   12,200    95.2
(2,500)    (8,750)                (6,050)            (73.8)
Rice (paddy)         4.0       1,600      6,400      2,160       4,240    1,100      4.7
(1,000)    (4,000)                (1,840)             (2.0)
Tomatoes            40.0         400     16,000      9,290       6,710    1,600    10.7
Watermelons         30.0         400     12,000      1,720      10,280       700     7.2
Second Crops
Sesane            o.6       3,100       1,860        410      1,450    1,600       2.3
iPeanuts           2.2      3,250       7,150      1,090       6,060    5,000    30.3
(2,520)    (5,540)                (4,450)  ___ _      223)
Total                                                                28,800   172.9
- (140- 8)
1/ Net returns are calculated upon two types of prices; first, domestic prices
pievailing in 1970; second, for purposes of economic analysis, prices have been
acdusted when necessary to the future projected world market level.
October, 1971



ANNEX 14
Table 3
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Tokat Project. Cropping Patterns and Net Returns
Farm-Gate   Gross Value        Production   Net Value of
Crop             yield      Price      of Production        Costs      Production      Area   Net Return
(ton/ha) (T7_/ton)                        ha----------L- ------____   (ha)   (TL million)
a) Without Project
i) Non irrigated
Wheat              1.5        900       1,350                 580            770        6,660      5.1
Barley             1.7        700       1,190                450             740          240     0.2
Sugar beet        21.0        200       4,200              1,400          2,800           340      1.0
Vine               4.0        750       3,000                 900          2,100          450      0.9
Miscellaneous       -          -          -                   -              -            270      0.7
Uncultivated        -          -          -                   _              -          2,50       -
ii) Irrigated
Wheat              2.3        900       2,070                 820          1,250        5,800      7.3
Barley             2.3        700       1,610                 650            960          280      0.3
Sugar beet        40.0        200       8,000               2,500          5,500        2,910    16.0
Watermelon        20.0        400       8,000               1,660          6,340          490      3.1
Orchard            8.0        800       6,400               1,780          4,620        1,150      5.3
Miscellaneous       -          -          -                   -              -          1360       3.4
Total                                                                              22,900    43.3
b) With Project
Wheat              3.0        900       2,700               1,040          1,660        9,310    15.5
Barley             3.0        700       2,100                 930          1,170        2,480      2.9
Sugar beet        50.0        200      10,000               3,400          6,600        3,210    21,2
Maize              3.5        700       2,450                 750          1,700        1,710      2.9
Alfalfa           12.0        650       7,800                 760          7,040        1,840    13.0
Orchard           12.0        800       9,600               2,960          6,640        1,560    10.4
Tobacco            1.0      7,000       7,000               1,380          5,620          170      1.0
Vegutables          -          -       13,300              4,680           8,620        2,620    22.6
Total                                                                               22,900    89.5
August, 1971






ANNEX 15
Page 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECr
1/
The Outlook for Cotton
1.        Cotton is produced in varying quantities in more than 80 countries.
Roughly one third of the world crop is produced for export in raw (fiber)
form and significant amounts are exported by producing countries as textiles.
The United States, the USSR and Mainland China are the world's three largest
producers, accounting together for about one half of the world output. The
bulk of the remainder is produced by a large number of developing countries.
2.        The United States remains the world's leading cotton exporter,
although its share in the world cotton trade has been declining histori-
cally. During the past ten years U.S. exports accounted on the average
for 23 percent of world's total exports. Over the same period centrally
planned countries accounted for another 13 percent and developing countries
for most of the remaining 64 percent. (See Table 1.)
3.        Turkey is the world's sixth largest exporter of cotton and has
shown a very strong growth in its cotton trade during the past 15 years.
Turkish exports of cotton doubled to 534,000 bales 2/ between 1955-59 and
1960-64 and doubled again by 1965-69, to rise still further to 1,138,000
bales in 1969-70. As a result of this strong growth in exports, cotton
has now become Turkey's largest export, earning over $100 million annually
in foreign exchange and accounting for one fifth of the value of all
Turkish exports.
4.        The present world cotton situation is in many respects different
from what it was throughout most of the past and especially the early and
mid-sixties. Since 1966-67 world cotton consumption has been rising
by only 0.7 percent a year compared to the annual growth rate of about
2.2 percent experienced in the preceding 11 years. On the other hand, pro-
duction, which had increased by 2.4 percent a year during the period be-
tween 1955-56 and 1965-66, declined by roughly 0.8 percent per annum in
the past four seasons.
5.        As a result of these changes in the demand-supply relationship
which took place in the late sixties, the world cotton position changed
considerably. For a peak of 30.7 million bales at the beginning of the
1966 season (August) - equivalent to 7.2 months of world consumption -
stocks declined to 21.5 million bales by August 1970, a level considered
as "minimum" or "below minimum" particularly by consuming countries since
1/   Prepared by Economics Department
2/   One bale contains 478 pounds of cotton.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
this amounts to 5.3 months of world consumption. 1/ The distribution of
stocks also changed considerably: the United States held in August 1970
27 percent of world stocks (compared to 55 percent in 1966), centrally
planned countries 14 percent (11.4 percent in 1966) and the rest of t1ie
world 59 percent (33.6 percent in 1966).  Reflecting these changes in the
demand-supply balance, the Liverpool price of Mexican Strict MiddIling 1--i/h"
cotton - a representative grade of so-called medium-long cotton - wlhich wJs
28.1 cents per pound in August 1966 rose to 31.0 cents per pound in
August 1970 and averaged around 33.8 cents during the first six months
of 1971.
6.        In the post-war period, however, cotton prices in the internatianel
market have not been determined entirely by the interplay of supply and
demand. Particularly when world production exceeded world consumption
(i.e., during 11 of the 22 seasons between 1948-49 and 1969-70), the effec-
tive U.S. export price acted as a floor for the world price of cotton. This
resulted from a policy of the United States, the world's largest producer,
consumer and exporter of cotton, to withhold export sales below a minimum
price and to accumulate stocks at this price, which in most years stood
above the hypothetical equilibrium price. Although world cotton prices
declined through most of this period, they did so in stages paralleling
successive, but delayed, adjustments in the U.S. export prices. These in
turn were instrumental in inducing stock cycles of six to eight years'
duration.
7.        The rapid decrease of world stocks and the improvement in prices
in the late sixties, however, were caused not by improved demand conditions
but rather by a sharp decline in cotton production (particularly during the
crop years 1966-67 and 1967-68). Moreover, the upward trend in cotton
prices coincided with steep, autonomous declines in the prices of competing
synthetic fibers. Cotton's share of world textile consumption, in cotton
equivalents, shrank from 53.3 percent in calendar year 1967 to 47.1 percent
in 1969.
8.        While there is evidence that recent sluggishness in world cotton
consumption has been due, at least in part, to transitory factors, there
are also strong indications that the recurring tendency of production to
outpace consumption in the absence of downward adjustments in prices will
persist. The shortfalls in world cotton production experienced in the last
few years were caused largely by substantial, intentional cutbacks in the
U.S. acreage and assisted by low yields in the United States and other
producing countries. The cotton provisions embodied in the recently
approved farm legislation covering the 1971/72-1973/74 period envisage a
flexible price support scheme which will no longer set a definite floor for
1/   World stocks in August 1971 are estimated at 19 million bales, the
equivalent of little more than four months' consumption, whereas the
desirable level of minimum stocks required to maintain price stability
is considered to be five to six months' consumption.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
the world price of cotton. While output in the United States is expected
to grow to more normal levels, accumulations of stocks to defend the
minimum price seem to be ruled out under the new system and the de facto
U.S. buffer stock will no longer be in operation. Consequently, cotton
prices will, in the years ahead, increasingly reflect market forces.
9.        World demand for textile fibers (cotton, wool and man-made fibers)
is expected to grow at a rate of 3.5 percent a year over the next five to
six years. This rate of growth was derived by applying income elasticity,
obtained from regression analysis covering the past 15 years, to forecasts
of real income for the next decade. World demand for cotton is projected
to grow at a slower rate, by 1-1.6 percent per annum over the same period.
Projections made using several alternative approaches (taking projected
consumption as a residual; applying a downward revised income elasticity -
obtained from regression analysis for earlier years - to projected future
income; extrapolating past trends; projecting the share of cotton in total
fiber consumption by using the same rate of decline experienced during
1957-67; keeping per capita consumption stable) all converge within these
limits. But even this slow growth rate of cotton consumption presupposes
some further improvement in the quality composition of cotton and progress
in promotional activity and, furthermore, that no new breakthrough in the
production of synthetic fibers would occur but that their prices would fur-
ther decline in relation to those of cotton.
10.       Available information on government plans or intentions indicates
that in the absence of a decline in prices world cotton production could
exceed demand in the mid-seventies by some 6-8 percent. In view of the
low price elasticity of demand - between -0.2 and -0.4, and tending to be
lower in response to declining than to rising prices - a sharp fall in
prices would be necessary to clear the market. Yet, there seems to be evi-
dence that the elasticity of supply in a number of producing countries is
rising and approaching unity. This would indicate that growth of supply
might be restrained considerably by weaker prices in the future.
11.       World cotton prices are expected to decline by 10-15 percent from
recent high levels by the mid-seventies and perhaps by another 5 percent
by the late seventies. (See Table 2.) In terms of Mexican SM 1-1/6", this
means a price around 26 cents per pound c.i.f. Liverpool, in 1970 U.S.
dollars, by about 1975 and a price in the neighborhood of 25 cents per
pound by 1980. 1/
12.       At projected equilibrium levels of demand, supply and price
for the mid-seventies, world raw cotton exports would experience a growth
rate of around 1.3 percent per annum between 1967-69 and 1975, although
developing countries' exports may grow at a higher rate (between 1.5 and
2.0 percent per annum). Assuming that world cotton prices move in the
late seventies towards long-term equilibrium levels, in the frame of a
relatively freer, competitive market (this assumption is reflected by the
further decline of cotton prices projected by 1980), world raw cotton
exports may continue to grow throughout the late seventies at roughly the
same rate envisaged for the earlier period. Export shares, however, become
1/   The U.S. wholesale price index has been used as a deflator.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
more difficult to predict, given their dependence on possible future policy
actions by major producing and exporting countries such as the United States
and the USSR.
13.       The export performance and prospects of individual developing
countries will continue to vary depending, inter 4lia, on availability of
land, trends in yields, quality and marketability of cotton grown, domes-
tic consumption trends and cotton textiles trade balances. Competition
among producing countries is expected to continue and small producing
countries with limited production alternatives are likely to push output
and succeed in expanding their small shares. The world market growth,
however, is expected to be a sl8w one throughput the seventies. Competing
man-made fibers will continue to exert pressure on cotton and to limit its
growth. The balance between advancements in cotton agronomy and man-made
fiber technology, altbough difficult to pr*dL=t, is likely to remain tilted
in favor of competing msn-made fibers.
December 23, 1971



AIiNEX 15
Table 1
RECENT TREnDS IN ThE WORLD COTTON PRODUCTION, UTILIZATION AND TRADE
(million bales)
Year beginning                  Average
August 1                      1958/59-        1963/64      1964/65       1965/66      1966/67      1967/68      1968/69      1969/70
1962/63
Consumption
United States                  8.7              8.6           9.2          9.5           9.5         9.0            8.2          S.C
Western Europe                 7.5              7.4          7.2           7.3           7.1         6.7            6.7          6.8
Japan                          3.0              3.2           3.4          3.2           3.3         3.4            3.5          3.4
Other (excl. c.p.e.)          12.1             13.8          14.5         14.6          15.1        15.9           16.5         17.2
Centrally Planned Economies   15.1             14.7         15.8          i6.3          17.3        17.9           18.0         13.1
World                       46.4             47.7          50.1         50.9          52.3        52.7           52.9         53.5
Production
United States                 14.0              15.3         15.2         14.9           9.9         7.2            11.0        10.0
Other (excl. c.p.e.)          19.0             22.2          23.0         23.7          22.5        24.0            26.5        25.8
Centrally Planned Economies  13.5              12.9         13.9          14.8          16.2        16.6            16.1        16.0
World                       46.5             50.4          52.1         53.4          48.9        47.8            53.6        51,8
Area (million acres)
United States                 14.7             14.2          14.1         13.6           9.6         8.0            10.2        11.1
Other (excl. c.p.e.)          46.9             49.8          50.7         50.1          49.0        49.5            50.4        51.2
Centrally Planned Economies  18.2              16.7         17.3          17.8          18.3        18.8            i8.6        18.8
World                       79.8             80.7          82.1         81.5          76.9        76.3            79.2        81.1
vieldi' (lbs/a.cre)
United States                453.6             517          517          527           480         447             516         43
Other (excl.c.p.e.)          193.6            214           217          223           221         232             251         241
Centrally Planned Economies  351.7            369          384           399           421         420            415          406
World                      279.8            299           303          313           302         301             323         306
Exports
United States                  5.0               5.7          4.1          2.9           4.7          4.2            2.7         2.8
Other (excl. c.p.e.)           9.0             10.4          10.6         11.6          10.7        10.3            11.6        12.4
Centrally Planned Economies    1.8              1.8           2.1          2.4           2.5         2.6            2.2          2.3
World                       15.8             17.9          16.8         16.9          17.9        17.1            16.5        17.5
Imports
Japan                          3.1              3.2           3.4          3.1           3.6         3.5             3.1         3.5
Western Europe                 7.0              7.2           6.5          6.8           (.8         6.5             6.5         6.1
Other (exel. c.p,e.)           2.8              3.3           3.3          3.4           3.8         3.9             3.6         4.1
Centrally Planned Economies   3.3               4.0           4.3          4.2           4.0         3.9             3.9         4.4
World                       16.2             17.7          17.5         17.5          18.2        17.8            17.2        18.1
Stocks/
United States                  8.0              11.2         12.4         14.3          16.9        12.5             6.5         6.5V
Other Net Exporters            3 7              3.8           3.8          4.2           4.5         4.7             5.3         6S3
Net Importers (excl.c.p.e.)V/  5,9              5.8           6.8          6.2           5.8         6.3             6.9         6.4
Centrally Planned Economies    3.1              2.5           3.0          3.3           3.5         3.7             3.4         3.22'
World                       20.7             23.3          26.0         28.0          30.7        27.2            22.1        22.9
Centrally Planned Economies
Export to                      1.7              2.5           2.5          2.5           2.2         1.9             2.1       n.a.
Imports from                    .3               .2           .3            .6            .8         1.0             9.8       n.a.
Net exports to               1.4               2.3          2.2          1.9           1.4         0.9             1.3       n.a.
j  The yield figures may be slightly different from those obtained by dividing the production figures by the area figures shown above,
due to rounding.
|  August 1 of first year shown.
2/ Stocks on August 1, 1971 are estimated as follows (in million bales):  United States 5.8; other net exporters 6.6; net importers 6.1;
centrally planned economies 3.0; and world total 21.5.
2/ Including India and afloat.
n.a. Not available.
Source: International Cotton Advisory Committee, Cotton World Statistics various issues.
December 1971



RECENT TRENDS IN WORLD COTTON PRICES - C.I.F. QUOTATIONS AT LIVERPOOL
(U.S. cents per pound)
Origin                                                 1965/66     1966/67      1967/68      1968/69      1969/70      1970/71 1/
United States      Orleans/Texas MI"                   26.1         25.1         27.5         26.6         26.3        29.5
United States      Memphis SM 1-1/16"                   29.3        28.7         33.8         30.4         29.2        31.5
United States       California SM 1-3/32"1             33.4         n.a.         39.8 2/      33.9         31.3        32.9 2/
Mexico              SM 1-1/16"1                         28.3        29.3 2/      31.9         28.9         29.3        32.8
Brazil              Sao Paolo Type 5, 1-1/32"          25.0 2/      24.8         27.8 2/      24.5 2/     24.7 2/      30.1 2/
Pakistan 3/         289 F Puniab S.G.                  28.0         26.0         26.3         2601 2/     27.8         31.1
Turkey              Ismir St. I White, 1-1/16"1 RC      28.8        28.3         31.5         29.1        27.4         30.5
Syria               SM 1-1/16"                         n.a.         28.2         32.2         30,6        28.4         30.9
Iran               SM 1-1/16"                          28.1 2/      29.0         32.0 2/     30.1 2/      28.2         31.2
Nicaragua           SM 1-1/16"                          27.1        27.6         30.4         27.4 2/      27.3        30.7
Greece              SM 1-1/16"                          29.1 2/     28.9 2/      31.4         31.4         28.4        31.1
Uganda 3/          B.P. 52                             31.9         32.0         36.7         36.0        31.2         33.9 2/
USSR                SM 1-1/16"                         29.0         30.0         33.2         30.4        30.7         33.2 2/
India 3/           Bengal Desi Choice                  25.9         21.8         24.1 2/     26.6         27.4         31.7
Peru               Tanguis Type 3                      34.0         39.0         37.9         32,6        32.9         38.3
Peru               Prima No. 1, 1-9/16"                41.2 2/      43.9         47.7 2/     48.1         48.0 2/      47.4 2/
Sudan 3/           G 5 L                               38.9         33.9         35.2        37.7         38.7         38.8
Sudan 3/           G 5 S                               43.8         38.2         40.7 2/     44.3         44.0         45.2 2/
UAR                 Dendera F.G.                       39.6         40,4         44.7        49.3         49.3         48.5
UAR                Menoufi F.G.                        49.8         51.3         55.8         62.5        63.2         61.2
n.a. = Not available.
I/ Averages for eleven months.
2/ Averages for less than twelve months (or for less than eleven months for 1970/71 prices).
3/ From 1967/68 on, shipment via Cape.
Source:  International Cotton Advisory Committee, Cotton - World Statistics, various issues.
Lr



ANNEX 16
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Silifke Project,Production Costs
Machinery               Labor re-
2aa              Seeds  Fertilizer   Pesticides and material        Total  quirements
a i t o-- -  (TL/ha) ------------------------ (man-days/ha)
a) Without project
Wheat               150       190            -          250            590         4
Barley               70         -            -          250            320         4
Seed cotton         120       200          1,050        300          1,670       60
Rice (paddy)        400        250           -          850          1,500       120
Peanuts             250       300             50        380            980       75
Sesame               80       150            -           70            300       12
Vegetablesi'        540     2,700            630        620          4,490        90
Citrus               -      3,370          1,920      2,010          7,300       350
Orchard              -      3,000          1,200      1,440          5,640       175
b) With project
Wheat               150       390            -          480          1,020         8
Barley              180       180            -          390            750         6
Seed cotton         120       300          1,050        600          2,070        85
Rice (paddy)        400        320           -        1,200          1,920       137
Peanuts             250       400             60        380          1,090        l8
Sesame               90       180             20        120            410        25
Fodder crops         60       200            -          500            760        42
Tomatoes          1,OOO     6,150            420      1,320          8,890       210
Vegetablesg/        150       750            220        730          1,850        90
Citrus               -      4,000          2,500      3,150          9,650       600
Orchard              _      3,800          1,500      1,590          6,890       300
j   Includes bags, crates and transport to market
/  Includes tomatoes, watermelons and assorted vegetables.  Weighted averages were
used in calculating costs per ha and labor requirements.
August, 1971



ANNEX 16
Table 2
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND CCKPLETION PROJECT
Kopracay Project.Production Costs
Fertil- Pesti- Machinery    Hired          Labor re-
Crcp                Seeds izers   cides  & MateriaLl  Labor-/Total  quirements
----------------------(TL/ha)------------- (man-days   )
a) Withouxt project
Wheat (dry)            150    190       -        330       -       670      4
Barlejr (dry)            70     -       -        300       -       370      4
Sesame (dry)            80    100       -        160       -       340     12
Seed Cotton (dry)       80      -       -        400      -        480     20
Seed cotton (irrig.)    60    450   1,250        440       -     2,200     85
Rice (paddy)           400    250       -        850       -     1,500    120
Kiscellaneous3/        440  1,100       80       580       -     2,200     80
b) With project
Wheat                  150    390       30       280       -       850     14
Seed cDtton             60    450   1,250        640     300    2,700    100
Rice (paddy)           400    320       -      1,2 00     240    2,160    137
Tomatoes             1,000  6,150      420     1,320     400    9,290    175
Watermelons             -      500     300       920       -     1,720    143
Sesame                  90    180       20       120       -       410     24
Maize                   50    400      220       260       -       930     25
1T Includes bags, crates and transport to market.
2/ Based upon a representative 8 ha - farm. Salary at 20 TL per man-day
/ Maize, watermelons and tomatoes.  Weighted averages were used in calculating
cost/ha and labor requirements.
August, 1971



ANNEX 16
Table 3
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABIIITATION AND CCMPLETION PROJECT
Tokat Project. Production Costs
Machinery             Labor re-
Crop               Seeds  Fertilizers  Pesticides  & Material   Total   quirements
--------            -(T/ha)
a) Without Project
i) Non irrigated
Wheat                 120      160                         300       580         4
Barley               100       100             -           250      450          4
Sugar beet             -       800            20           580    1,400         70
Vine                   -       350          100            450      900         46
ii) Irrigated
Wheat                 150      320             -           350       820         6
Barley                100      250             -           300       650         6
Sugar beet             -     1,600           20            880    2,500        109
Water melon            -       500           240           920    1,660         95
Orchard                -       520          260          1,000    1,780         48
b) With.Project
XWneat                210      300             -           530    1,040          8
Barley               200       250             -           480       930         8
Sugar beet             -     1,760           40          1,600    3,400        150
Maize                  50      170             -           530       750        30
Alfalfa               230      250             -           280       760        42
Vegetables           810    2,550           500            820    4,680        180
Orchard                -     1,100          460          1,400    2,960         60
August, 1971






ANNEx 17
Table 1
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Silifke Project 3 Ha-Farm Budget
Present Situation                Full Development
Net Value of Production             Net Value of Production
Area  Per ha          Per Farm     Area   Per ha          Per Farm
h    -        --(TL)----------   (ha)      ---------(TL)---------
Wheat                o.60  2,110             1,270      0.36    2,580             930
Barley              0.15  1,410                210      0.24    1,410             340
Rice (paddy)         0.72  3,300             2,380      0.72    4,480           3,230
Seed cotton           -      -                 -        0.18    6,030           1,090
Peanuts              0.48  5,520             2,650      0.54    7,040           3,800
Sesame              0.12  1,250                150       -         -
Vegetables          0.30  5,480             1,640       o.66    5,650           3,730
Fodder                -      -                 -        0.12    6,440              770
Citrus              0.12 22,900              2,750      0.12   26,190           3,140
Orchard             0.06 13,260                800      0.06   15,790             950
Fallow               0.45    _                 _                   - 
Second Crops
Peanuts               -      -                 -        o.36    6,060           2,180
Sesame                _      _                 _        0.12    1,140             140
Vegetables            -      -                 _        0.42    6,250           2,630
Total           3.00                   11,850       3.90                   22,930
Sunary
Without Project With Pr 'ect Increment
__________-------(TL) --_________------
Net value Iof production                 13,750 /       22,930         9,180
Interest_/'                                 210            460           250
Income before water charges              13,540         22,470         8,930
Water charges                               64L /        1,620-/         980
Net farm income                         12,900          20,850         7,950
/ Attained. by an  nual increase Of 3% during 5 years.
E/ 9V of production costs for 6 months.
3/ Present water charge.
O Operation and maintenance costs only.
October, 1971



ANNEX 17
Table 2
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Koprucay Project 6 Ha-Farm Budget
Present Situaticm             Full Development
Net Value of Production          Net Value of Production
Area  Per Ha         Per Farm   Area  Per Ha          Per Farm
()  -----------(TL)--a)                      (TL)
Wheat-/              2.15   1,76o           3,780      0.90  2130             2,070
Maize                 -        -              -       0.90  4,500             4,050
Barley-              0.10      780             80       -      -                 -
Sesaxu)l/            0.20     900             180      -       -
Seed cotton./        0.45   1,320             590      -       -                 -
Seed cotton          2.30   6,500          14,950     3.30  8,100            26,730
Rice (paddy)         0.25   3,300             830     0.30  4,480            1i340
Tomatoes              -        -              -       0.40  7,110             2,840
Watermelons           -        -              -       0.20 10,280             2,060
Miscellaneous-/      0.10   6,600             660       -      -
Uncultivated         0.45      -              -        -       -
Second Crops
Sesame           -       -               _       0.40  1,450               580
Peanuts          _        -              -       1.30  6,060             7,880
'rotal         6.0o                  21,070     7.70                   47,550
Summary
Without Project  With Project  Increment
------------------ (TL) ------------------
Net value of production3/            24,1440          47,550      23,110
InterestlV                              350              850         500
Income before water charges          24,090          46,700       22,610
Water charges                           61i/           2,1002'/    1,490
Net farm income                      23,480          44,600       21,120
1/ Non irrigated crops under present conditions.
2/ Maize, tomatoes and watermelons on equal areas.
3 Attained by an annual increase of 3% during 5 years.
/ 93% of production costs for 6 months.
3/ Present water charge.
&/ Operation and maintenance only.



ANNEX 17
Table 3
TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Tokat Project. 4 Ha-Farm Budget
Present Situation                 Full Development
Net Value of Production         Net Value of Production
Area   Per ha         Per Farm  Area  Per ha          Per Farm
(ha)             (TL) ---L)______  __
Wheat.1/            1.15      770             8go
S/        0.10    2,800             280     -       -
Sugar beet;-
Miscellaneous       0.10    2,100             210     -       -              -
Uncultivated       0.55       -               -       -
Wheat               1.00    1 250           1,250    1.60    1,660         2,660
Barley               -        -               -      0.45    1,170           530
Sugar beet          0.50    5,500           2,750    0.60    6,600         3,960
Maize                -        -               -      0.30    1,700           510
Alfalfa              -        -               -      0.30    7,040         2,110
Vegetables2/        0.10    6,340             630    0.50    8,620         4, 310
Orchard             0.20    4,620             920    0.25    6,640         1,660
Miscellaneous       0.30    2,100             630     -       -               -
Total             4.00                    7 t560    4.00                15,740
sunmary  ___
Without Project   With ProWect  Increment
- - - - - ---(T L)---- - - - - - - -
Net va1ue4f production           8,770 3/        15,740       69708
Interest                           180              360         180
Income before water charges      8,590 5,        15,3806      6,790
Water charges                      260 -          1,280-      1,020
Net farm income                  8,330           14,100       5, 770
17 Non irrigated crops under present corditions.
2/ Watermelon under present conditions.
3/ Attained by an annual increase of 3% during five years.
1/ 9%/el production costs for 6 months.
/ Present water charge.
/ Operation and maintenance onLy.
August, 1971






ANNEX 18
Page 1
TURKKY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        Economic evaluation of the project has been carried out, taking
into consideration the following:
(a) Prices. Farm-gate prices for commodities subject to in-
ternational trade are based on future projected world market
price forecasts prepared by the Bank's Economic Department.
Current domestic prices requiring adjustments are appli-
cable to Koprucay and Silifke and are as follows:
Domestic    Future Pro-
Price      jected Price
(TL/ton)    (TL/ton)
Cotton (seed)      3,000       2,500
Peanuts            3,250        2,520
Rice (paddy)       1,600       1,000
Oranges            1,120          680
Fruits             1,260       1,000
All other prices are those currently obtained by farmers.
(b) Development Period. Physical implementation of all three
projects would be completed in five years. On the other
hand, on any given land, full agricultural benefits,
after completion of the works, would be reached in three
years in Silifke and in five years in Koprucay and Tokat.
This means, for example, that 1 ha completely prepared
and served by the third year would yield full benefits by
the sixth year in Silifke and by the eighth year in
Koprucay and Tokat. Therefore, projected benefits would
be attained by year 8 in Silifke and year 10 in the other
two.
(c) Project Cost. Economic investments and their timing are
based on those shown on table 1 of Annex 6, modified by
excluding (i) taxes to be paid on TOPRAKSU imported equip-
ment and (ii) training. Operation and maintenance costs are
shown in Annex 13. The operation and maintenance cost stream
has been built up in line with the area actually irrigated
each year. Project economic cost is defined by subtract-
ing from the with-project total cost the present operation
and maintenance cost.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
(d) Project Benefits. These have been calculated considering
economic prices and development rates. Salvage value of
TOPRAKSU construction equipment is credited to the projects
at the end of the construction period (1977); this salvage
value is estimated at 40% of the original cost, net of
taxes. Project economic benefits are defined as the incre-
ments over the benefits obtainable without the project,
which have been evaluated assuming that an annual increase
of 3% up to a maximum of 15% over present conditions would
take place in absence of the project.
2.        Project costs and benefits streams are presented in Tables 1, 2
and 3.
3.        Economic rates of return are:  Silifke, 18%; Koprucay, 19%; and
Tokat, 12%.
4.        To measure the sensitivity of the projects to deviations from
basic assumptions, the following tests have been performed:
(a) Construction period extended from five to seven years,
investment costs increased by 15%, and net incremental
benefits starting in fourth instead of second year;
(b) operation and maintenance cost increased by 25%; and
(c) benefits decreased by 10%.
The results are as follows:
Silifke           Koprucay         Tokat
(%)               (%)             (%)
Test (a)    14                  16              10
Test (b)    17                  18              12
Test (c)    16                  17              11
5.        Foreign Exchange Benefits.  Three steps are necessary in calculating
the project's foreign exchange benefits. First, both the foreign exchange
earnings or savings and the foreign exchange costs must be determined.
Second, the net foreign exchange benefits must be established by deducting
the foreign exchange eosts from earnings. Finally, it is necessary to
determine at what cost of local resources these net foreign exchange benefits
were obtained in order to decide whether the local costs are justified.
Because costs and benefits take place in different years, it is necessary
to express them using a common denominator. This is accomplished by
presenting both in terms of their present worth, using the opportunity cost
of capital as an appropriate discount rate. The ratio of discounted net



ANNEX 18
Page 3
local costs to discounted net foreign exchange benefits is the foreign
exchange rate for the project. To evaluate this ratio, it must be compared
with the prevailing foreign exchange rate for the country's currency, or,
if necessary, with a shadow foreign exchange rate.
6.        In calculating the project's internal foreign exchange rate, the
total gross value of the incremental production is considered either as
exportable or import substitution. The foreign exchange earnings and local
cost streams used in the analysis are presented in table 4 (for the Koprucay
project; analagous calculations were made for the other projects). The net
present worth of foreign exchange benefits to be realized over the project's
life, at a discount rate of 10% are: Silifke, US$10.2 million; Koprucay,
US$37.2 million; and Tokat, US$20.3. The net present values of local costs,
also discounted at the rate of 10%, are: Silifke, TL98.0 million; Koprucay,
TL336.2 million; and Tokat, TL250.6 million. The ratio of the discounted
local costs to foreign benefits are: Silifke, TL9.6 per 1 US$; Koprucay
TL9.0 per 1 US$; and Tokat, TL12.3 per 1 US$. The weighted average for the
three projects are TL10.1 per US$. In all cases, these are appreciably more
favorable than the official rate of TL15 per US$.
December 27, 1971






TUREY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND CCMPLETION PROJECT
Silifke Project. Cost and Benefit Streams
(TL Million)
Without Project                   With Project                     Increment
Net Return from 0 & M    Net Return from   Investments   0 & H
Year         Project Area    Cost     Project Area                      Costs    Cost   Benefits
1972               12.9       0.7           12.9             11.0       0.7      11.0     0.0
1973               13.3                     15.2             19.8        2.7     21.8     1.9
1974               13.7                     17.6             15.9                17.9     3.9
1975               14.1                     20.1              3.9                 5.9     6.o
1976               14.5                     22.6              3.9                 5.9     8.1
1977               15.0                     28.4 /            -                   2.0    13.4
1978               15.0                     27.6                                  2.0    12.6
1979/2021          15.0       0.7           30.1              -         2.7       2.0    15.1
1/ Includes TL 3.3 million as salvage value of TOPRAKSU equipment.
September, 1971
HH



TlURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND CCMPLETION PROJECT
Koprucay Project Cost and Benefit Streams
(TL Million)
Without Project                        With Project                     Increment
Net Return from  0 & M       Net Return from   Investments &      0 & M
Year           Project Area     Cost        Project Area       Replacements      Costs   Cost   Benefit
1972                 62.9         2.1             62.9              51.7           2.1    51.7     0.0
1973                 64.8                         72.0              75.0          4.6    77.5      7.2
1974                 66.7                         80.6              50.7          6.1    54.7    13.9
1975                 68.7                         89.2              26.3           7.2    31.4    20.5
1976                 70.8                         97.8              15.1           7.7    20,7    270
1977                 72.9                        116.9              1_.                    5.6    44.O
1978                                             115.0               -                            42.1
1979                                             123.6               -                            50.7
1980                                             132.2               -                            59.6
1981/96                                          140.8               -                       6    67.9
1997                                                                 1.6                   7.2
1998                                                                                       5.6
1999                   l                                             1.0                   6.6 6
2000                                                                 0.6                   6.2       ,
2001/21              72.9         2.1            140.8               -            7.7      5.6    67.9
l/ Includes TL 10.5 million as salvage value of TOPRAKSU equipment.
September, 1971
PO1



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND COMPLETION PROJECT
Tokat Project, Cost and Benefit Streams
(TL Million)
Without Project                   With Project                     Increment
Net Return from   0 & M    Net Return from                   0 & M
Year             Project Area       Cost      Project Area      Investments    Costs    Cost  Benefit
1972                   43.3          2.8           43.3             43.3        2.8     43.3    o.0
1973                   44.6                        48.8             64.7        4.9     66.8   4.2
1974                  45.9                         54.4             52.1        5.5    54.8    8.5
1975                  47.3                         61.3             38.0        6.2     41.4  i.4.o
1976                   48.7                        68.5             37.4        6.8     41.4  19.8
1977                   50.2                        86.01/             -         7.4      4.6  35.8
1978                   50.2                        83.3                                        33.1
1979                                               86.9               -                        36.7
1980                                               89.0               -                        38.8
1981/2021              50.2         2'8            89.5                         7.4      4.6  39.3
1/ Includes TL 8.8 million as salvage value of TOPRAKSU equipment.
August, 1971



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABLTTATION1 AND MnO  PRuJECT
Koprucay Project, Internal Foreign Exchange Rate
Year                    Net Foreign Exchange Earnings                                   Net Local Currency Costs
Incremental  Incremental  Net Foreign                                 Incremental
Incremental Production   Gross Value   Exchange                      Incremental Production   Net Local
Investments  0 & M Cost      Cost      of Production  Earnings       Investments  0 & M Cost       Cost          Cost
- - - - -                (US$ thousands)- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -(TL million) - - - - - - - -
1972     (1,000)         -             -            -          (1,000)            36           _            -            36
1973     (2,130)       (60)          (200)         940         (1,450)            39           2            4            45
1974       (870)      (100)          (400)       1,940            570             44           4            9            55
1975       (200)      (130)          (670)       2,800          1,800             24           4           12            40
1976       (100)      (140)          (930)       3,800          2,630             13           4           16            33
1977         -        (140)        (1,130)       5,400          4,130              -           4           20            24
1978         -        (140)        (1,130)       5,270          4,000              -           4           20            24
1979         -        (1l40)       (1,130)       5,870          4,600              -           4           20            24
1980         -        (210)        (1,130)       6,400          5,130              -           4           20            24
1981/2021    -        (140)        (1,130)       7,000          5,730              -           4           20            24
Present Values (discount rate 10%)
Net Foreign Exchange Earnings:         US$ million 37.2
Net Local Cost:        TL million 336.2
Project  Foreign  Exchange Rate:          US$1.0 = TL9.0
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis represent foreign exchange costs.
(D >,
ODH



TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION & COMPLETION PROJECT
k/il                                           g5KOPRUCAY PROJECT                                                Paintig Main Canal
.\ 'I>vg3 9  '  S i\ PIGH N 3ALK PtIM''4t.                                              Saedary Canal
Propasad Secondary Canal
N                             g                             9  _ Existing  Drai
Proposd Drai
-Prposed Deep Drain
V  4hXf   XgeMSrw4  Q<  / v/gY*to>                                       t          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F~S~  Tunnel
\'  4"'-&'    \-                            I        2          3                            A   Fain u PJ3 Sting Pumpng Plant
,/ A   / ,   /   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _0      Proposd    Pumping    Pant
Di-Kers,o Dam
Pra1ant Arxas-Nea I.rr.gateld
'//S Protect Areas -P Preposd
':      4< / .9<  egKo y cAnrn S =encn                                          [        Deep Dnai A-a
; J  TonTns & Villags
-x/16a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F . .HT 3AN >2 GAT10>/\ i; tW  ;,: f;t  >    r/   >     z    \ ps               LEI BA4 l0 G/sIt CNA-
~~~ 4ALItzi-S       5r                                    ,1A eS-g7J ) '   W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI
IN~~
-  I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ix
2?F                         /=IJ'  t   )   Tf;                :w2t s4>,. -  MEDITFRRA NEAN  SnA          - A
, Agmen.:                        g                             =% T:! ;;G10 2  S :>:H, ;5 v i A  g  t  J  t  i)  $/  ; '  .uLm ,t , /   t f e , 7 M F 3
AuGust OT                                                                                                                                                     cx 3523>t ;3i0        lt      ;4       t






TURKEY
DCGo*vwon            IRRIGATION REHABILITATION & COMPLETION PROJECT
Moin Canol                                                                                   SILIFKE PROJECT
.............For,  rnpr.o-nrant-Mar    C -nal
Seondr Iromn t p--f-Main Dr/in
P..rrpg Pla..nt
o  loans & Vilrlagan                                                                  J                        ,                         9         
N~~~~~~~
M E /rEAR RANAEA N
SIA t|lommt6sA K   LAKE                             N.
P~ARA
/  f\ SEA 
-   MED/rERR~A NA N
A-sucu //                       - v  -  A\r}           l\\ SEA 
\   C,                            a        ,S,  (    I   ,            \      i (                      '.                '                      -,_-_
X^lED/rERRANEAS   \\   At  tAKE   '. .                                     ' X . v                 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EOrEIAoA  00*
/    /      /,/5emr
wGSTl 1971                                                                                                                                                                                       ion  3505






TURKEY
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION & COMPLETION PROJECT
4  Main C-no                                                                                                              SILIFKE PROJECT
k'' orWprorr-ttrto- Cocol
Seodary .anal
........ For Improemet-SecondaryC Canal
.For..l.... F, 6w-t-Ma,m Dram.
ci   Ponryng Plant
-- Project Are
0Toa-n &Villoac-
V.. .... .... . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ c,
4                                                                                            . . . . . . . . . . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
MEDITEPRANEANAK AE
SEA
PA RA
SEA
MEDITERRA NEANA
AoGtrr 07i  ~~~  ~            ~~~~~~                                                                        ~~~~~~~~ I~E
ALIMI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a    m.  ar






TURKEY
JS  , W  _    t--i- .   -   -    IRRIGATION REHABILITATION & COMPLETION PROJECT
TOKAT PROJECT                                             TN                   I
KAZOVA ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      AZV 
KAZO  A   . . ,,n,       mp,,, 1 ., 9. .um F.,................N l
j   i            |    L  |  ]  1  7  3  9  10   g                               ReOvOds~~~~~Ch -I  - .0D    D
4U JU] ws .................................................................. Ril] 15 41~~~~~~~~~~~PI



