Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 12889
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) VI
(CREDIT 754-PAK)
MARCH 29, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency (abbreviation) = Pakistan Rupee (PRs)
Appraisal Year (1977):       US$1.00 = PRs 9.90
Intervening Years (1978-91):    US$1.00 = PRs 15.19
Completion Year (1992):      US$1.00 = PRs 25.08
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I foot (ft)                     =          30.5 centimeters (cm)
i mile (mi)                     =          1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                     =          0.405 hectare (ha)
I cubic yard (cu.yd)            =          0.765 cubic meters (m3)
I acre foot (ac.ft)             =          1,233.5 me
1 cu.ft/sec                     =          0.0283 m3/sec
1 maund                         =          37.3 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
ADBP         Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
CCA          Cultivable Command Area
ECNEC        Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FGW          Fresh groundwater
GCA          Gross Command Area
GOP          Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab    Government of Punjab
KfW          Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (Germany)
Kharif       Wet season (mid-April to mid-October)
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PC-I         GOP project document
PID          Punjab Irrigation Department
Rabi         Dry season (mid-October to mid-April)
SGW          Saline groundwater
SMO          SCARP Monitoring Organization (WAPDA)
WAPDA        Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFIMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                             March 29, 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Salinity Control and Reclamation Proiect (SCARP) VI (Credit 754-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Pakistan - SCARP VI (Credit 754-PAK). Parts I
and Ill were prepared by FAO/CP for the South Asia Regional Office and Part 11 by the Borrower.
Built in the 1 930s, the Panjnad system expanded to irrigate 500,000 ha. by diverting Indus
water. No drainage was provided; water tables gradually rose. Waterlogging lowered yields and, in
saline groundwater (SGW) areas, put land out of production.
The project aimed to remedy this principally (a) by providing public tubewells which, in SGW
areas, would pump effluent into open drains for evaporation in the desert; and (b) by restructuring
canals to provide perennial water supplies in SGW areas, while cutting off rabi-season canal water to
fresh-groundwater (FGW) areas, thus forcing them to pump.
Implementation was delayed three years when the National Economic Council ordered the
project redesigned. There were further major delays and problems getting local financing. Critical
canal works were lagged to an unfinanced wphase I. Tubewell installation in FGW areas and on-farm
development were left to farmers. Electrification, cofinanced by KfW, proceeded as per plan but most
farmers chose diesel pumping. ODA financed civil works and equipment. Drainage worked, but saline
effluent has contaminated about one percent of farmland. The remodelled canals are not used and will
not be unless remaining works are completed.
There have been major agricultural benefits from drainage and improved canal water supply,
thanks to the project in SGW areas and largely independent of it in FGW areas. Yields and cropping
intensities have exceeded appraisal estimates. Despite problems, the PCR proposes a 23% ERR as
'broadly indicative' that the project is satisfactory, but expresses doubts about sustainability. There
were no institution-building objectives.
The PCR, while factual, does not provide a balanced assessment of project achievements and
shortcomings. Half of project expenditures, for canal improvements, have generated no benefits so
far. The explanation for this situation is not pursued. Design problems are glossed over. Neither
causes nor solutions to the leaking saline effluent problem are explored. Part 11 provides technical
corrections, and emphasizes that another estimated US$136 million would be needed to complete the
project. No comments from cofinanciers were received.
An audit is in progress.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorIzation.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) VI
(Cr. 754-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY    ................                   ................. iii
PARTI ....          .............1................ 
1. Project Identity .................................    1
2. Background  .................................    1
3. Project Objectives and Description ..................................   2
4. Project Design and Organization . .................................   3
5. Project Implementation  .................................   4
6. Project Results .................................   7
7. Sustainability  .................................  9
8. Bank Performance and Lessons Learned .................................   10
9. Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned ...............................  11
10. Project Relationship  ...............1.................  11
11. Consulting Services ....    .....................   12
12. Project Documentation and Data    .............           ............   12
PART II .......................... 13
PART III ..........................  19
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ..........................  19
2. Project Timetable ..........................   20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
[official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



2. Project Timetable        ........................    20
3. Credit Disbursements .... ....................  20
4. Project Implementation ............................................. 21
A. Physical Achievements ........................  21
5. Project Cost and Financing ............          ............  22
A. Project Cost ........................  22
B. Project Financing ........................  24
6. Project Results ........................  25
A. Direct Benefits ........................  25
B. Economic Impact ........................  26
C. Financial Impact ........................  26
D. Studies ........................  27
7. Status of Covenants ........................  28
8. Use of Bank Resources ........................  29
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks) ........................  29
B. Missions ........................  30
ANNEX 1 - Economic Evaluation



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) VI
(Cr. 754-PAK)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Salinity Control and Reclamation
Project (SCARP) VI for which Credit 754-PAK in the amount of US$70 million was approved in
December 1977. Cofinancing was provided by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the
United Kingdom (£ 10.8 million grant) and Kreditanstalt flir Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany (DM 20
million loan). The project was revised and approved by the Government of Pakistan (GOP) in 1981, and
the original credit closing date was moved two years to June 30, 1987. After five one-year extensions,
the final closing date was June 30, 1992. The credit account was kept open until October 31, 1992, to
facilitate completion of disbursements. The last disbursement was made on November 19, 1992, raising
the disbursed total to US$65.94 million (94% of the credit). The unspent balance of US$4.06 million
was cancelled. Both the ODA grant and the KfW loan were almost fully disbursed.
2.         Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative Program
mission, " which visited Pakistan in February 1993, and reviewed by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department III, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on the staff appraisal
report and legal documents, IDA supervision reports and project files; a draft Part II produced for GOP
by the Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA); field visits; and discussions with
Government officials and beneficiaries as well as IDA staff associated with the project. The short version
of Part II included in this report was submitted by the Borrower in November 1993.
Comprising Messrs. S. Rajagopal (irrigation engineer, mission leader), K. Selvavinayagam (financial analyst),
and T. Bachmann (agronomist).






Iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) VI
(Cr. 754-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.         The project was aimed at raising crop production through lowering and controlling
groundwater levels, and provision of increased irrigation deliveries to leach salts, meet optimum crop
water requirements and increase cropping intensities. It covered 1.27 million ac (Units II, III, IV and
V") of the Panjnad Abbasia SCARP area located in southern Punjab. Project objectives were to be
attained through investments in tubewell drainage and effluent disposal comprising open drains and
evaporation ponds, an electrification network to provide energy for tubewells, and canal remodelling to
handle increased irrigation deliveries. Technical assistance was also provided.
Implementation Experience
2.         The project was to be implemented over a six-year period (1978-1983). However, during
the first three years only preparatory work was undertaken and alternative implementation plans were
studied due to queries raised by GOP and non-approval of the project by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC). The project scope was revised and ECNEC approval obtained
in 1981. Alternative 1b of the Final Plan Report prepared by the project consultants was adopted for
implementation. The credit closing date was moved to June 30, 1987, reflecting the delayed start of the
project. The actual implementation period ran from 1981 to 1992 - after five one-year extensions, the
final credit closing date was June 30, 1992. The main contributory factors for this time overrun were:
late GOP approval of the project, paucity of local funds, poor performance of contractors, and increased
scope of work resulting from detailed design being carried out during implementation.
3.         A total of 514 drainage tubewells have been installed (123 in Unit IV and 391 in Unit V).
There were delays in installation due to equipment and communication problems experienced by the
international contractor working in Unit V. Substantial delays were encountered in the construction of
unlined drains and cross-drainage structures. However, these delays had no significant impact on the
critical path schedules. The tubewells and drains in Unit V were operated initially by the implementing
agency, WAPDA, and later turned over to the Punjab Irrigation Department (PID), the operating agency.
There were difficulties in handing over these works because of the lack of adequate operating funds in
PID's budget. The PCR mission was informed that these difficulties have been overcome and PID was
able to maintain and operate these tubewells and drains. At the time of the mission's visit, the tubewells
and drains in Unit IV were still operated by WAPDA. Some of the tubewells were inoperational due to
theft of automatic devices such as trip switches.
"  Unit II and m areas (726,000 ac) are underlain by fresh groundwater, Unit IV and V areas (544,000 ac) by
saline groundwater.



Iv
4.         The drainage tubewell effluent is to be sent to evaporation ponds constructed in the Cholistan
Desert by making use of interdunal depressions. Although revised estimates called for 67,500 ac of pond
area" and IDA later agreed to fund up to 60,000 ac, only about 33,000 ac have been provided. After
the Government of Sindh withdrew its permission in early 1990 to have ponds located on its territory,
new suitable areas of 19,000 ac were found in Punjab, but construction was not undertaken as WAPDA
and its consultants considered 33,000 ac sufficient for the time being.' About six months after filling
of the ponds began in 1989, seepage of highly saline water from the evaporation ponds was observed in
adjacent irrigated areas. This problem is continuing and so far about 12,000 ac of irrigated land have
been damaged and about 1,000 families affected.' WAPDA initiated studies to find solutions to this
problem in 1990 but these studies have not produced conclusive results. The seepage problem requires
that appropriate solutions be found and implemented quickly, since the project would be compromised
if saline effluent cannot be disposed of as originally envisaged.
5.         Construction of an electrification network including six grid stations, 132 kv and 11 kv
transmission lines was carried out to provide energy for public drainage tubewells (Units IV and V) and
encourage installation of private irrigation tubewells (Units II and  o). Procurement of equipment
financed by the KfW loan was considerably delayed due to WAPDA's internal procedures. Even though
the electrification network in Units II and m was completed by December 1990, the outcome has been
far less then anticipated. This is due to (i) higher cost of operation of electrically driven tubewells as
compared to diesel tubewells, which have become very economical in recent years, and (ii) canal
operation problems -- rabi (dry season) water for Unit V still flows through Units II and III thus
providing no incentive for farmers to tap an alternate source of water for their rabi crops.
6.         Canal improvement works consisted of developing a parallel system to deliver water to the
perennial irrigation areas, with associated modifications to the existing Panjnad delivery system and
modifications to distributaries and minors to handle increased irrigation deliveries. Substantial delays were
encountered in construction. Performance of contractors was poor. Modifications necessary in the
Panjnad main system to operate the parallel system have not yet been carried out (see para 9).
Installation of gates on regulators at various places has not yet been completed. Investments in the canal
component have therefore not been put to use yet. Additional work to be carried out has been identified
and a new PC-I prepared for submission to the Government of Punjab (GOPunjab) and GOP.
7.         Baseline (1980-81) and three follow-up agro-socio-economic surveys have been conducted
during project implementation to record/monitor changes in crop production and socio-economic
conditions. The third follow-up report covering 1989-90 was issued in December 1991.
8.         In mid-1992, total project cost was PRs 3.59 billion (US$195 million) compared to the 1981
(approved PC-I) estimate of PRs 1.88 billion (US$190 million) - an increase of 91 % in PRs but only 3%
in US$ terms. The major part of the cost overrun was attributable to civil works whose share increased
to 66% of total cost from about 50% in the 1981 PC-I.
"   Final Plan Report 1981, Vol. 1, pp. 6-12.
21  See WAPDA letter of April 25, 1990; May 1990 supervision aide memoire, para 4.01; and WAPDA letter of
October 2, 1990.
3/  See Part n, para 21 a).



v
Project Results
9.         The project had mixed results. It achieved most of its objectives (albeit with considerable
delay) in terms of works constructed in Units IV and V (perennial irrigation areas). However, canal
remodelling works in Units II and m (non-perennial irrigation areas), deferred to a later phase in the
Final Plan Report, are yet to start.  Private tubewell installation has also lagged behind earlier
expectations. Although it is too early for a definite assessment of economic performance, agro-economic
surveys (para 7) indicate that higher crop yields are now being obtained than estimated in the SAR.
10.        The reestimated economic rate of return is 23%, against 19% estimated at appraisal and
20% at project revision in 1981. Given that actual investment costs are still partly estimated, and the
entirety of project benefits is estimated, the recalculated ERR should be treated as broadly indicative.
Project Sustainability
11.        Project sustainability depends on the continuity of production benefits which depend to a
large extent on high and stable crop yields. These in turn are governed by the successful operation of
the tubewell and drainage effluent disposal system and the irrigation delivery network. Project operation
would be compromised unless a satisfactory solution to the problem of seepage from the evaporation
ponds is found in the near future. In addition, modifications of the existing canal network (Panjnad main
canal, Minchin, Rahimyarkhan and Sadiq Branch Canals) are necessary before the project can be operated
as designed and other project investments (Abbasia Link Canal, Abbasia and Sadiq Feeders) put to proper
use. In other words, although the works cofinanced by IDA have been substantially completed, the
project at present is unfinished and therefore cannot be sustained. Assuming that these problems are
corrected in the near future, sustainability would depend on adequate funding for operation and
maintenance (O&M). Adequate manpower and equipment have been made available to PID, but assured
availability of O&M funds still remains a problem. Willingness of the beneficiaries to contribute more
towards meeting the O&M costs is important.
Findings and Lessons Learned
12.        The main lessons learned from the project are that: (a) financial capability and willingness
of the Borrower to execute the project should be ascertained carefully before credit approval; (b) it is
important to prepare final designs of canal and drainage works for the first project year prior to credit
negotiations, and to allow adequate time for these tasks in the implementation schedule; (c) management
skills and procedures of the implementing agency, including contract packaging, award and supervision,
should be analyzed and provisions made for necessary improvements during project implementation; (d)
meaningful agro-economic evaluation becomes possible when the base-line survey is carried out prior to
project start and follow-up surveys are made during and after project implementation; (e) a specific
commitment should be obtained from the Borrower to provide annual budgetary allocations for regular
maintenance of project facilities.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECT (SCARP) VI
(Cr. 754-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI
Credit No.              754-PAK
RVP Unit                South Asia Region
Country                 Pakistan
Sector            :     Agriculture
Subsectors              Irrigation and Drainage
2. Background
2.1        Pakistan's economy has traditionally relied heavily on agriculture as a source of growth with
irrigated agriculture being the dominant subsector. Great efforts and resources have been invested in
harnessing water from the Indus River and its tributaries on the one hand and from underground aquifers
on the other. Drainage, a vital adjunct to irrigation, was not provided on any scale until the 1960s, and
therefore the watertable rose in many areas to levels where it hampered crop production. Also, with
increased areas brought under irrigation without corresponding increases in irrigation deliveries, irrigation
water was often thinly spread, allowing salts to build up in the crop root zone. Consequently,
waterlogging and salinization curtailed production in affected areas.
2.2        The first project under GOP's Salinity Control and Reclamation Program was conceived
in the late 1950s and became operational in 1963. By November 1976, more than 8,000 publicly owned
tubewells and over 150,000 privately owned tubewells had been installed.  In many parts of
Rahimyarkhan District (Southern Punjab), in both fresh and saline groundwater zones, the watertable was
so high that it impeded profitable cultivation. As a result, fresh water tubewell development, while
substantial, lagged behind that of the rest of the Punjab. In addition to the effects of high water table,
some of the soils had become saline due to deliberate under-irrigation by farmers. To remedy these
shortcomings, a project plan was prepared in 1968 and the need for SCARP VI was confirmed when, in



2
1973, the Federal Planning Commission prepared its "proposals for an accelerated Program for Salinity
and Waterlogging Control".
2.3         The Bank Group has been involved in Pakistan's water sector for many years, and a
considerable share of its lending to Pakistan has been for agriculture and irrigation. SCARP VI was one
of the projects it helped finance.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1         Project objectives were to:
(i)         lower and control the groundwater table at levels which would facilitate
agricultural development and prevent soil salinization;
(ii)        provide increased surface water deliveries, mainly in kharif when there is
surplus water in the rivers, to give adequate supplies for good irrigation
management practices and higher cropping intensity;
(iii)       provide additional L&  irrigation to non-perennial areas by increased
exploitation of fresh groundwater; and
(iv)        dispose of saline drainage effluent safely.
3.2         As agreed at negotiations, these objectives were to be achieved through implementation of
the following activities:
(a)     Construction in Unit II (seasonally irrigated, fresh groundwater) of about 930
tubewells of various discharge capacities, and appurtenant works; construction of
about 250 drainage tubewells in Unit V (perennially irrigated, saline
groundwater); construction of disposal works, including pumping stations and
evaporation ponds for saline effluent; construction of an electrification network
to provide energy for the public tubewells and pumping stations; construction or
enlargement, as necessary, of canals and structures, irrigation outlets and
watercourses; and provision of gypsum for soil reclamation on about 40,000
acres.
(b)     Provision of (i) vehicles and equipment for project execution and management;
(ii) communication and computer equipment to improve operation of the irrigation
and drainage works in the Panjnad Barrage command; (iii) equipment and vehicles
for the soils laboratory at Bahawalpur; (iv) surveying instruments; (v) tractors for
land levelling; and (vi) equipment for the electrification network.
(c)     Provision of credit to farmers through participating banks for installation of about
2,300 tubewells in Unit III, and land levelling.
(d)     Provision of about 420 staff-months of consultancy services for project
implementation and preparation of other irrigation and drainage projects.



3
Total project costs, over a six-year period, were estimated to be about US$170 million (PRs 1,683
million). The IDA credit of US$70 million, U.K. grant of US$15 million equivalent and KfW loan of
US$8.3 million equivalent were to cover 55% of total cost, while domestic sources (Government,
participating banks and beneficiaries) were to contribute the remaining 45%. The project was to be
implemented by WAPDA with participation of the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
and other Government agencies.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1         The project was identified in the Bank's Indus Special Study Report of 1967. A feasibility
study was prepared for GOP/WAPDA by an international consulting firm in 1968. This study was
updated in 1975 by a Pakistani consulting firm. The project was well conceived, forming part of the
accelerated reclamation program (para 2.2) and an integral part of water sector development, specifically
aimed at addressing the twin problems of waterlogging and salinity on about 1.27 million acres of
cultivable command area (CCA)".
4.2         Given the budgetary difficulties, as well as the large area and the complexity of the project,
the scope of the project as appraised was probably too ambitious and time allotted for its implementation
too short. Although the IDA credit became effective in December 1978, no significant progress in
physical implementation was possible until the scope of the project was revised and ECNEC approval
obtained in 1981.
4.3        The revisions included: (i) deletion of on-farm investments, financing for which was to be
provided instead under the fourth IDA credit to ADBP (Cr. 957-PAK); (ii) deferral to a later phase of
(a) drainage tubewells in Unit II - until assessment of the impact on the groundwater table of private
(irrigation) tubewell installation in the area; (b) remodelling of minor canals in Units n and HI - until
the scope of private tubewell development in these areas was accurately estimated; (c) drainage tubewells
in Units IV and V originally proposed for locations not critically susceptible to waterlogging problems;
and (d) surface drains and disposal system to the extent required for (a) to (c); (iii) assumption that
private tubewells installed in Units II and HI would be electrically rather than diesel powered; and (iv)
replacement of the originally proposed two-mile electrification grid for tubewell power supply by a one-
mile grid as an incentive to farmers who would have to spend less for the shorter hook-up lines. The
approved project costs (PC-I, February 1981) were estimated to be US$190 million (PRs 1,882 million).
ODA increased its grant to US$19.4 million equivalent, and KfW and IDA maintained their original
contributions to the project.
4.4        The above revisions were intended to provide some advantages. Installation of private
tubewells in Unit H as well as Unit m would mobilize farmers' savings and lead to more efficient water
management. Certain investments in public tubewells were deferred until their installation was warranted.
Electrically powered tubewells would mean lower farmer investment and O&M costs. However, the
subsidies envisaged meant higher cost to Government. The revised project was found to be technically
and economically viable.
The Allahabad Pilot Project (Unit I) had already been completed with Goverment funds covering an area of
200,000 ac, leaving an ar of 1.27 million acres distributed over Units n (338,000 Sc), m (388,000 Sc), IV
(76,000 ac) and V (468,000 ac).



4
4.5        For the most part, the project was planned, designed and implemented by WAPDA under
the General Manager (Water) Central with a Chief Engineer stationed at Rahimyarkhan in charge of the
project. The timing of the project was appropriate. Implementation was achieved with the in-house
capability of WAPDA assisted by consultants in field survey, procurement of equipment, preparation of
tenders, supervision and execution of project works.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        Credit Effectiveness. Even though the Development Credit Agreement was signed in
January 1978, the credit became effective only in December 1978 due to delay in appointment of
consultants by WAPDA, which was a condition of effectiveness. However, project implementation did
not start immediately thereafter because of minimal Rupee funding due to serious financial constraints
and non-approval of the PC-I by ECNEC. After a delay of nearly three years, physical implementation
began in 1981 based on Alternative III b of the Final Plan Report prepared by the project consultants.
5.2        Canal Improvements. Canal improvement works comprised two parts: improvements to
the main and branch canals delivering water to the distributaries, and improvements to the distribution
system itself. The latter was carried out by the Punjab Irrigation Department (PID) under the overall
responsibility of WAPDA. The improvements to the main and branch canals consisted of developing a
parallel system, to deliver irrigation water to Units IV and V on a perennial basis and to supply Units
HI and m on a non-perennial basis (during khaif only). In the pre-project situation Unit V was supplied
by branch canals offtaking from Panjnad main canal and passing through Units II and III. Seepage losses
from these canals aggravated the waterlogging problem in these two Units. A new (earthen) canal, called
Abbasia Link Canal, was to be constructed, the Abbasia and Sadiq Feeders were to be constructed and
lined, and the Lower Sadiq Branch Canal was to be modified and lined to handle the irrigation deliveries
in Units IV and V. The Panjnad main canal, the Minchin, Rahimyarkhan and Sadiq Branch Canals were
to be modified to carry only flows necessary in the kharif season for Units II and III.
5.3        The Abbasia Link Canal was excavated and essentially completed in 1984. However, the
headworks necessary to divert water from the river were not complete until 1990. Thus, no water could
have been diverted through this canal until at least 1990. In fact, some of the regulators did not have
gates in place even at the time of the PCR mission's visit in February 1993." Abbasia Link Canal is
still not in service due to these and other reasons explained in para 5.7 below. Its excavated sections are
now covered with bushes and small trees and would need cleaning before it could be put into service.
The construction quality of structures built on the canal is good; in particular, the control structure at RD
238 is quite impressive in the finish quality of the concrete and joint construction.
5.4        The Abbasia Feeder, which takes off from the Abbasia Link Canal, was completed only
in 1990 even though work commenced in 1986. The brick lining work is good. This canal has also not
had any water so far. Salt pockets are appearing on the lining due to evaporation of seepage water
entering the canal bank in cut sections. Unless water is let into this canal fairly quickly, deterioration
of the lining would start.
5.5        The Sadiq Feeder, which takes off from Abbasia Feeder, was completed only in 1992 even
though work started in 1986. The work was given out in two contracts (SVIC-345, RD 0 to 80; and
"  See Part n, pas 21 b).



5
SVIC-346, RD 80 to 162). Contract No. SVIC-345 was completed in 1990. The SVIC-346 contractor
was unable to execute the work and was expelled; the remaining work was split into three smaller
contracts, RD 80 to 100, RD 100 to 122, and RD 122 to 162, which were awarded in 1991. The work
was completed in 1992. Since the smaller contracts were executed efficiently within twelve months, it
would appear that delays in the construction of the feeders could have been avoided, or at least reduced,
by proper contract sizing and better contractor selection in the first place. This canal, of course, has not
yet received any water either. The brick lining work is good.
5.6        The Lower Sadiq Branch Canal was modified and lined. The work was given out as a
single contract in 1986 but the contractor was unable to execute the work. He was expelled, and the
remaining work split into six smaller contracts (RD 0 to 29+400; RD 29+400 to 50+800; RD 50+800
to 66+370; RD 66+370 to 86+00; RD 86+00 to 88+00; and RD 97+00 to RD 100+795 plus RD
102+585 to RD 103+248), which were awarded in 1991. The work had to be carried out using
diversions since Lower Sadiq Branch supplies perennial areas. The work was completed in 1992. Six
years lapsed for work that was actually carried out in little over one year. Since Lower Sadiq Branch
is still getting its supplies through Sadiq Branch Canal, it is flowing with irrigation water. However, the
objective of operating a parallel system, with Lower Sadiq Branch being supplied through the Sadiq
Feeder has not been achieved yet.
5.7        The Abbasia Link, Abbasia Feeder and Sadiq Feeder system cannot be operated unless at
least the Minchin and Rahimyarkhan Branch canals are modified." Additional work necessary has been
identified and a new PC-I is currently under preparation. For the time being, the investments made in
the Abbasia Link, Abbasia Feeder and Sadiq Feeder system are not providing any benefits.
5.8        Drainage Improvements. 514 deep drainage tubewells have been installed in the project
area, of which 391 in Unit V and 123 in Unit IV. The tubewells have been placed on a parallel drain
concept. Both carrier and surface drains have been constructed, totalling 444 km in length. The
tubewells are now operating, except in some areas of Unit IV where automatic devices for operation (such
as trip switches) had been installed. These devices have been stolen and, with spares not readily
available, the tubewells have remained inoperational. The tubewells were installed by an international
contractor over a period of about 30 months with a 12-month completion delay. The delay was due to
lack of experience in drilling tubewells in waterlogged areas (equipment difficulties) and communication
problems with counterpart staff because of insufficient English language skills.  However, the
construction quality appears to be good.
5.9        Construction of unlined drains and cross drainage structures was carried out by local
contractors. Substantial delays were encountered in contract execution. Contracts were awarded starting
in 1983 with completion periods ranging from six months to one year in most cases, but were completed
with one to two years delay. However, these delays did not affect tubewell performance since the
tubewells were completed only in 1989 and most of the drains were in place by then.
5.10       The tubewell drainage effluent (estimated at 600 mcm/yr) is to be sent to evaporation ponds
constructed in the Cholistan Desert making use of interdunal depressions. Originally, these ponds were
to be constructed using the proceeds of the U.K. grant. As grant funds were exhausted, IDA agreed to
take over financing of the ponds. The 1981 estimate of the surface area required for the ponds was
"  For completc pallel system operation the Panjnad Main Canal and Sadiq Branch Canal will have to be modified as originally
planned.



6
67,500 ac". IDA agreed to fund up to 60,000 ac. At present, only 33,000 ac have been provided as
a result of the refusal of the Sindh Government to have ponds located on its territory, and the project
consultants' judgement (endorsed by WAPDA) that this pond area was adequate for the present needs -
until future monitoring results showed that additional area was required' . About six months after filling
of the ponds began in 1989, seepage of highly saline water from the evaporation ponds was observed in
adjacent irrigated areas. This problem is continuing and so far about 12,000 ac of irrigated land have
been damaged.' Considering that proper disposal of saline effluent is vital for successful operation of
the project, design and construction of the evaporation ponds should have been given greater care and
attention. It appears that the system was not designed with attention to detail. Even though 12,000 ac
out of a potential 544,000 ac of benefitting area (Units IV and V) is a small percentage, the problem
nevertheless requires attention. In 1990, WAPDA initiated studies to find a solution to the problem, but
the studies have not provided conclusive results. Affected farmers have not been compensated.
Appropriate solutions would have to be found and implemented quickly since the project would be
compromised if saline effluent cannot be disposed of as originally envisaged.
5.11        Groundwater levels and soil salinity in the project area are being monitored on a twice-
yearly basis (at the end of rabi and kharifl by the SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) of WAPDA.
In addition, soil salinity surveys have been carried out on a regular basis. Based on these surveys and
PCR mission interviews with beneficiaries, it can be concluded that drainage of waterlogged lands has
been successful so far in Units IV and V and agricultural benefits have begun to accrue (see para 5.14).
5.12        Electrification Network. Construction of an electrification network including three new
grid stations, expansion of three existing stations, 132 KV and 11 KV transmission lines in a one-mile
grid was carried out, with electrification equipment financed by the KfW loan and civil works by the IDA
credit. There were considerable delays in the procurement of equipment due to WAPDA's time-
consuming procedures. Contracts were awarded in 1985 with expected completion in 1987. However,
the electrification network was completed to a large extent only in 1989. Since tubewell installation was
also completed in that year only, no significant delays in the operation of the drainage system resulted
from the delayed completion of the electrification network.
5.13        Even though electrification has been provided in Units II and III, installation of private
tubewells has been less than anticipated. Out of 2,850 tubewells envisaged in the 1981 PC-I, only about
1,000 have been installed by farmers. This is due to canal operation problems (rb water for Unit V
still flowing through Units II and III and thus providing no incentive for farmers to tap an alternate source
of water for their rabi crops) and the high cost of electricity. In recent years, better-performing diesel
engines have come on the market which are inexpensive to buy and efficient to operate. Smaller farmers
tend to install diesel-operated tubewells, whereas larger farmers prefer electric tubewells for which power
can be obtained at a flat tariff rate irrespective of usage. In retrospect, it would have been prudent for
the Final Plan Report to drop electrification in Units II and III. This would have released some funds
to modify the branch canals in Units II and III, which is necessary for satisfactory performance of other
canals built in Units IV and V and to minimize further waterlogging in Units II and III. Limitation of
Government funds has ultimately forced the postponement of canal remodelling works in Units II and III
beyond the IDA credit closing date, which has resulted in idling of important investments made in the
Abbasia Link, Abbasia Feeder and Lower Sadiq Feeder Canals.
" Final Plan Report - 1981, pages 6-12.
2 Land for additional 19,000 ac pond arma is available, if noeded, as per WAPDA letter to IDA of April 1990.
3   See Part II, pam 21 c).



7
5.14        Agro-Sodo-Econondc Surveys. A baseline survey (1980-81) and three follow-up surveys
(1983-84, 1986-87, and 1989-90) were conducted to record/monitor changes in crop production and
socio-economic conditions during and after the physical implementation of project components. These
surveys provided useful information in assessing the impact of the project on crop production and farm
incomes.
5.15        Project Cost and Flnancing. In mid-1992, the total cost of the project was PRs 3.59
billion (US$195 million), compared to the revised cost estimate of PRs 1.88 billion (US$190 million),
representing a 91% overrun in Rupee terms but only 3% in US dollar terms (reflecting the substantial
devaluation of the Pakistan Rupee against the US dollar). The share of civil works in the mid-1992 total
was 66%, compared to about 50% in the 1981 estimate. The average cost per acre, based on the
originally envisaged area of 1.27 million ac and the revised cost of PRs 1.88 billion, would have been
about PRs 1,480. On the basis of the area actually benefited" and the mid-1992 cost total, the average
cost is PRs 6,370/ac. To complete the project as designed and obtain additional irrigation deliveries, an
additional expenditure of about PRs 1.1 billion would be required. Since project implementation was
slow, an undisbursed IDA credit balance of US$4.06 million remained in 1992. After an initial two-year
shift and five subsequent one-year extensions, IDA was unable to agree to GOP's request for further
extension of the credit closing date. The undisbursed balance was cancelled on November 19, 1992.
6. Project Results
6.1         General. The project had mixed results. While it achieved most of its objectives in terms
of drainage construction in Units IV and V, canal remodelling necessary to provide additional irrigation
deliveries is not yet completed. Private tubewell development has also lagged behind estimates - 1,000
actual compared to 2,850 planned. It is rather premature to attempt an evaluation of improvement in
O&M performance and hence crop production benefits. However, the agro-socio-economic surveys show
that higher yields are now being obtained than estimated in the SAR for full development, due primarily
to lowering of watertables.
6.2         Crop Production. Using the data provided by the agro-socio-economic surveys (para
5.14), the PCR mission was able to make a fairly reliable estimate of the potential impact of the project
on crop yields and production (see Part III/6A). As a result of reduced waterlogging and salinization and
provision of increased irrigation deliveries2', overall cropping intensity has reached 147 % thus exceeding
the SAR estimate (128%) by about 19%. Cropping intensity is slightly higher in the previously
waterlogged and saline areas of Units IV and V (150%) than in Units II and III (144%).
6.3         Changes in overall cropping pattern compared to SAR assumptions are primarily in the
replacement of low value by high value crops. Cotton has reached 51 % in kharif and exceeds the SAR
estimate by 19%; wheat occupies 48% of the CCA (SAR: 37%); orchards have increased to 7% (SAR:
4%); and maize, millet, pulses and oilseed have dropped to about 1 % (SAR: 7%). Larger farmers grow
more cotton than small farmers, and small farmers grow considerably more wheat than larger farmers.
The area under fodder crops remained basically unchanged.
5 S44,000 ae in Unit IV and V, plu 20,000 ac in Units 1 and III - about 20 ac conmuanded by each of the 1,000 electric
tubewell inalcd -- or a total of 564,000 ac.
V   Irrigation deliverics in exces of the 5 cusecs quota arm being nade by encroaching on freboard of branch channels.



8
6.4         Economic Impact. In estimating the project's economic impact, assumptions had to be
made regarding: (a) investments still needed to complete the project in Units II and HI; (b) crop mix at
full development; and (c) higher cropping intensity and yields than projected at appraisal. At the time
of the PCR mission's visit (February 1993), canal remodelling in Units H and m was expected to be done
over four years (1994-1997) at a cost of about PRs 1.1 billion. As shown in Part III/6A, the expected
crop mix does not represent a strong departure from appraisal estimates, except for vegetables and
possibly orchards. Higher cropping intensity and crop yields than estimated at appraisal for full
development are being achieved now as evidenced by the latest agro-socio-economic survey, aided by
availability of agricultural support services, albeit at a less effective level than originally foreseen. Since
these higher yields are based on a short time series, they have been held constant for the period of
analysis, ensuring that the forecast for a 30-year period is kept at a reasonable level. Incremental
production benefits have been estimated assuming "without project" situation as projected in the SAR and
"future with project" suituation as described above.
6.5         On the basis of these assumptions and others mentioned in Part III/6B and Annex 1, the
revised economic rate of return (ERR) is 23%, compared with 19% expected at appraisal. The ERR has
been recalculated only for the project as a whole as it is difficult to distinguish with certainty the benefits
derived from different Units. In sum, the improved ERR is due to higher crop yields than projected at
appraisal which more than offset the adverse factors including delay in the implementation of civil works,
particularly canal remodelling in Units II and III, and higher investment costs per benefited area than
estimated at appraisal.
6.6         Given that part of investment costs and the entirety of project benefits are estimated, the
recalculated ERR should be treated as broadly indicative. This is reinforced by the fact that crop yields
cannot be sustained unless adequate funds are allocated for the operation and maintenance of project
irrigation and drainage facilities. Sensitivity analysis shows that a combined reduction in benefits and
increase in costs by 20% will lower the ERR to 16%. A similar reduction may result from delay in
completion of unfinished canal remodelling works accompanied by cost increases and consequential delay
in reaching full development production.
6.7         Environmental Impact. Implementation of the project has resulted in lowered water tables
and increased agricultural production in a major part of the project area. Areas that had stagnant pools
due to waterlogging have been reduced and therefore mosquito breeding grounds nearly eliminated. Farm
incomes would increase significantly at full development. In these aspects the project has had a positive
impact on the environment.
6.8         The saline drainage effluent discharged into the evaporation ponds in the Cholistan desert
has caused unexpected seepage that has affected already about 12,000 acres and dislocated about 1,000
farming families." As noted above (para 5.10), this problem has to be studied carefully so that further
negative impact can be prevented.
6.9         The construction of evaporation ponds may have created new mosquito breeding areas. The
Health Department advises that a particular species of mosquitos A. stephensi, which is a secondary
vector for malaria, can breed in saline water. The main malarial vector A. culicifacies prefers clean
stagnant water but sometimes does forced breeding in saline water as well. The PCR mission obtained
malarial survey records from the Health Department, and it appears that no fresh incidence of malaria
It See Pat II, pam 21 d).



9
has been reported in the villages located near the ponds since their filling. However, this aspect has to
be monitored further.
6.10        It is possible to introduce a fish species lUapia in saline water (7lUapia nilotica, MUapia
masambica and lUapia aurea are suitable). The production rate has been estimated by the Fisheries
Department to be 400 kg/ac/yr. The PCR mission was advised that already some lease agreements have
been signed in this regard. The additional employment provided and the availability of a protein source
would be a positive impact of the project.
7. Sustainability
7.1         Project sustainability depends on the continuity of production benefits, which are determined
to a large extent by high and stable crop yields. These in turn are governed by the availability of
irrigation water and drainage facilities. Continued operation of the project would be compromised unless
a satisfactory solution to the problems caused by the evaporation ponds is found in the near future. In
addition, to allow operation of the canal network as intended, modifications of the Panjnad main canal,
Minchin, Rahimyar Khan and Sadiq Branch canals are necessary before other project investments can be
put to proper use. In other words, although the works cofinanced by IDA have been substantially
completed, the project at present is unfinished and therefore cannot be sustained. Assuming that these
problems are corrected soon (by 1997), project sustainability would depend on: (a) having trained staff
in place with a low turnover rate together with adequate equipment to maintain the system; (b) ensuring
the O&M costs are fully met; and (c) obtaining not only local acceptance but active local support for the
project, to minimize the risk of neglect, deterioration, and vandalism. The likelihood of meeting these
conditions is discussed below.
7.2         PID has been operating the drainage system for over two years. Adequate equipment (2
draglines, 1 motor grader, 1 backhoe, 2 tractor trailers, 1 dozer, 1 truck, 1 portable generator) have been
transferred to PID in good working condition. The Department also has adequate trained staff, so it
appears that condition (a) would be satisfied. Farmers interviewed by the PCR mission" expressed their
satisfaction about the performance of the project. Continued proper operation of the drainage tubewells
and effluent disposal system would maintain farmers' interest in the system. With appropriate extension
messages, it would be possible to encourage farmers to actively support project activities. However,
availability of adequate funds remains a problem, even though PID and GOPunjab assured the PCR
mission that appropriate budgetary provisions have been made for the current year and would be made
in the future. While there is a consensus on the need to increase the level of water rates in agriculture,
its political and social acceptability remains critical. For the sustainability of the project's irrigation and
drainage system, given the limitations of the Government's ability to meet O&M costs fully, it is
important that farmers contribute more towards meeting these costs.
7.3         Currently, O&M  costs of irrigation projects and investment costs of on-farm water
management projects are partially recovered through Provincial water charges and payment of a share
of the costs, respectively. Irrigation water charges are levied according to the cropped area and the crops
grown. In Punjab, water charges have almost doubled since 1978, and revenue from water charges at
present levels (PRs 53/ac on average) covers almost 80% of estimated annual cost of O&M (PRs 84.5
million). Water charges at present levels for a farmer with 5 ac imply a payment equivalent to 1% of
"  Thow not affeed by evaporation pond beepage.



10
gross farm income, 1.6% of net farm income, or 3% of total production costs. An increase of 25% (as
recommended by the Nationwide Study for Improving Procedures for Assessment and Collection of Water
Charges and Drainage Cess, 1990), which would cover estimated O&M costs, would imply a payment
equivalent to 1.3% of gross farm income, 2% of net farm income, or 4% of total production costs.
While such increases are not insignificant, they appear to be feasible from the perspective of farmers'
ability to pay, especially considering that real net farm incomes would have risen by about 12-60% at full
development.
8. Bank Perfornance and Lessons Lened
8.1        The Bank plays an important role in meeting Pakistan's resource requirements for irrigation
development. Through SCARP VI, the Bank, along with ODA and KfW, continued its involvement in
addressing the problems of waterlogging and salinity. It also provided for a study on water charges and
introduced covenants in the legal documents for the increase of revenue from water charges. At the
Borrower's request, several amendments were made to the Development Credit Agreement in line with
changing project needs.  These included the significant revision of the project, a change in the
disbursement rate for civil works, reallocation of credit proceeds, and extensions of the credit closing
date.
8.2        The Bank carried out 16 regular supervision missions and three technical missions, of which
eight jointly with ODA/KfW. Continuity of supervision staff was reasonably well maintained, despite
the prolonged implementation period. The resident mission in Islamabad assured a continuous dialogue
with the Borrower and facilitated project supervision.
8.3         Main lessons learned from the project are:
(a)    Investment in irrigation and drainage has been economically sound. Agricultural
support services should be strengthened to make this investment effective.
(b)    The project was severely affected by time and cost overruns, partly due to delays
in Government funding, inflation, problems with contractors as well as insufficient
preparation at the time of appraisal. It is important to ensure adequate preparation
of final designs prior to loan/credit negotiations. Where this is not possible and
designs are finalized during implementation, sufficient time should be allowed in
the implementation schedule, and the project should be reassessed for technical
and economic viability.
(c)     Meaningful agro-economic evaluation becomes possible when a base-line survey
is carried out prior to initiating project works and follow-up surveys are
conducted regularly during and after project implementation.
(d)     Commitment of the Borrower is a pre-requisite for project success. It must be
ascertained before loan/credit approval".
"  Conacqucitly, the Bank Grup has made ECNEC approval a condition of la/credit effoctivenas since 1981.



11
(e)    It is desirable to obtain a specific commitment from the Borrower to provide
annual budgetary provisions for regular maintenance of project facilities.
9. Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
9.1        The overall performance of the Borrower throughout project implementation was below
expectations. Problem areas were delay in starting the project; contract packaging, contractor selection
and management, which led to considerable delay in project implementation; and taking over and
operation of drainage tubewells by PID. WAPDA was assisted by project consultants in the preparation
of final project designs, tenders, award of contracts, and construction supervision.
9.2         Lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Adequate time should be allowed in the implementation schedule for preparation
of final designs if this has not been done prior to appraisal.
(b)    Management skills and procedures of the implementing agency should be
reviewed and improved, if necessary. More decentralized decision-making is
needed.
(c)    Selection procedures for the award of contracts may require improvement, or
existing procedures more careful application.
(d)    Capability of local contractors (both financial and technical) should be analyzed
prior to determining contract packages.
(e)    Timely release of funds is necessary for smooth project implementation.
(f)    Operating agency and implementing agency should overlap during project
implementation to facilitate handing over of completed works.
(g)    Monitoring and evaluation surveys should be continued to evaluate project impact.
10. Project Relationship
10.1       The implementing agency has had a long association with the Bank. The relationship was
good and there was a learning attitude on both sides. This was due in part to Pakistan's long experience
in irrigation network design and in part to the quality of WAPDA's management team. While most
project specific problems were eventually resolved, the issues of seepage from evaporation ponds and
funding for canal remodelling works in Units II and III are still unresolved.
10.2       Bank and Borrower relationships with the cofinanciers (ODA and KfW) and other relevant
parties including consultants have been satisfactory.



12
11. Consuldtng Servce
11.1       Consultants" provided valuable assistance to WAPDA in preparing the final project plan,
designs, cost estimates, and contract documents; bid evaluation and contract award; and supervising
construction of works. When the seepage from the evaporation ponds appeared, WAPDA requested the
consultants to study the problem. Studies were carried out but the results have been inconclusive.
12. Project Documentadon and Data
12.1       As already noted (paras 4.2 and 4.3), the project was restructured in 1981. No new SAR
was produced. The original SAR thus provided only a partial famework for project implementation, but
it was supplemented by the Final Plan Report. In addition, clarification and guidance were provided by
Bank missions.
12.2       Information for PCR preparation was readily available. A good record of physical and
financial progress in works and other activities was available, and also base-line and follow-up agro-
economic surveys. In addition, a draft PCR (Part II) prepared by WAPDA provided relevant
information.
"  A Pakigtni-Dutch joint ventum Muinod thmughout pzoi:t inmplemmation.



13
PART H"
Oeneral
1.   The  Consultant's  'FINAL  PLAN'  (March  1981)  envisaged  the  following
components and Scope of Work:
a)     Irrigation:
New feeders/link canal
-  unlined                                        58 km
-  lined                                         107 km
Remodelling main & branch canals                 190 km
Remodelling distributaries & minors             1871 km
New outlets                                     1500 Nos.
b)     Drainage:
Drainage tubewells
(cap. 45 to 90 1/s)                              431
Open surface drains                              460 km
Evaporation ponds                              67500 ac
c)     Electrification:
New gridstations (132/11 RV)                       3
Extension of existing substations
(132/11 KV)                                        4
132 KV transmission lines                         80 km
11 KV distribution lines                        2850 km
Power requirement                                101 MVA
2.   The scope had to be revised somewhat due to actual field conditions
encountered during implementation. The modified Scope of Work according
to which the project has been constructed is:
a)     Irrigation:
New feeders/link canal
-  unlined                                        73 km
-  lined                                         107 km
Remodelling of existing canals                   180 km
b)     prainaj e:
Drainage tubewells                               514
Surface drains                                   444 km
Evaporation ponds                              33000 ac
Pumping stations                                   3 Nos.
c)     Electrification:
Construction of substations                        6
132 KV transmission lines                         68 km
11 KV distribution lines                        3045 km
" Received with lecr datod November 8, 1993.



14
3.   Although the World Bank's credit has been terminated with effect from June
30, 1992, the Project as conceived by the Consulants cannot be regarded as
complete. The following works still remain to be done:
a)     Construction of 700 outlets.
b)     Remodelling of 1046 km of irrigation channels.
C)     Suitable reclamation measures for pond affected areas.
These works could not be undertaken during the currency of the World Bank's
credit due to non-availability of adequate local funds during the period
of implementation as a result of which the cost and period of execution
increased. The revised cost of the project is now estimated to be Rs. 4085
million.
Project Implementation
4.   The construction of new canals, tubewells, surface drains, evaporation
ponds and electrification network was the responsibility of WAPDA while the
remodelling of existing irrigation channels was done by Punjab Irrigation
Department.
S.   The project was initiated in July 1981 and after a series of extensions
(mainly due to paucity of funds) was substantially completed by June 1992.
Except for a few contractual problems, which are common in projects of such
a big size, there was no major incident observed during the course of
implementation.  However, when the disposal of saline effluent from the
tubewells into the evaporation ponds started in September 1989, significant
rise in the groundwater table was observed in the agricultural lands
adjacent to the ponds.   This phenomenon  is still  continuing.   The
Consultants, after detailed study of the problem, recommended certain
measures to arrest this seepage and also advised for constant monitoring
of the water level conditions inside the affected areas.  This is being
done by SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO) WAPDA.
6.   On the advice of an FAO/CP Mission who visited the project area in February
1993, detailed terms of reference (TOR) have been prepared for engagement
of international consultants to study the seepage phenomenon.
Project Monitoring
7.   The Planning Directorate (Water) Central has been regularly carrying out
the agro-socio-economic monitoring of the project. The benchmark survey
was conducted in 1980-81 followed by three follow-up surveys conducted
during 1983-84,  1986-87 and 1989-90.   The reports on these surveys
containing changes in crop production and socio-economic conditions were
provided to the Bank.
8.   SMO WAPDA was responsible for conducting hydrological monitoring and soil
survey. They, too, had their reports published on the surveys carried out
during 1980-81 (benchmark survey), 1983-84, 1986-87 and 1989-90.



15
Project Results
9.   The surveys carried out by Planning Directorate (Water) Central and SMO
WAPDA indicate that compared to the pre-project conditions there is a
marked improvement in the land and water conditions of the area.
Two main objectives of the project were: stabilize groundwater table at
safe level and increase in crop production. The third follow-up surveys
conducted during 1989-90 show that:
a)     Average  yield  of  cotton,  sugarcane  and  rabi  fodder  has
increased. The cropping intensity has increased from 119% in
1980-81 to 144% in 1989-90.
b)     The area under 0-5 ft water table has reduced from 18% in
1980-81 to 10% in 1989-90.
C)     The land categorized as "strongly salt affected" has reduced
from 8% in 1983-84 to 5% in 1989-90.
Bank's Performance
10.  The project was mainly financed by IDA. However, the procurement of canal
remodelling  equipment  was  financed  by  the  Overseas  Development
Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom under a grant, and KfW of
Germany financed the procurement of material for the electrification
component under a loan.
11.  IDA's performance was good.   They provided necessary guidance through
various review and technical missions during the period of implementation.
The things moved quite smoothly except in a few cases where the difference
of opinion between the Borrower and IDA (e.g. contract for head regulator
and contract for gates etc) caused delay in the execution of work.
12.  The performance of both ODA and KfW was also good and maximum utilization
of their finances was achieved.
13.  IDA was considerate enough to finance the construction of Tarukari Drainage
System in Unit IV and the evaporation ponds from the unutilized amount of
its credit. IDA also extended the closing date of the credit many times
which allowed the Borrower to utilize it to the maximum possible extent.
Borrower's Performance
14. The following factors cast adverse effects on the Borrower's performance.
a)     The Borrower had no choice over the selection of equipment
procured under the UK grant. Some of this equipment did not
properly suit the project requirements and conditions.
b)     The local construction industry was weak.



16
C)     Non-allocation of adequate local funds.
Lessons Learat
15.  The project should be of such a size that its execution does not take more
than five years.
16.  The local funds should be made available by the Government according to the
financial phasing in the PC-I.
17.  In view of the weak construction industry in Pakistan the contract packages
of works should be small.
18.  The understanding and communication between the Donor and the Borrower
should be further developed to avoid delays in many trivial matters.
19.  The monitoring and evaluation of the project should continue regularly and
necessary funds should be provided to ensure continuity of data even after
the completion of the project.
20.  The selection of equipment, its type and size required for the project
works should be made keeping in view the project conditions, availability
of spare parts and repair/service facilities available in the country.
Coments on Parts I & III
21. The Mission is congratulated for having prepared a good report. However,
there are certain minor discrepancies as indicated below:
a)     At page (iii) of the Evaluation Summary, it has been mentioned
that barely after three months of pumping seepage of highly
saline water from the evaporation ponds was observed in
adjacent irrigated areas. This problem is continuing and so
far about 12,000 acres of good irrigated land have been
destroyed and about 1000 families have been displaced.'/
This is not correct. The factual position is that seepage was
observed in the adjacent irrigated areas after fifteen months
of pumping as a result of which 550 families have been
displaced.
b)     Line 4 of Para 5.3 - Part I at Page 4 says:  "In fact some of
the regulators do not have gates in place even at the time of
PCR Mission's visit in 1993." 2/
These missing gates on Tallah and Chamman distributaries have
now been completed and are in operation since May 1993.
Comn=t efers to earlier text version. SA3AG.
2/ Colnunet refers to earlier text version. SA3AG.



17
C)     Line 9 of Para S 10 - Part I at Page 6 ways:  "Barely after
three  months  of  pumping,  seepage .was  observed
The period of three months is not correct.   It should be
changed to fifteen montha.
d)     Line 4 of Para 6.9 - Part I at Page 10: I/ The number of
affected families is 550 and not 1000 as reported in the PCR.
e)     The table on physical achievements given [in Part III/4A3 of
the Report has been reviewed and amended. The amended tabl- is
attached herewith.
" Textrefcwdtonowinpam6.8onupaeV8. SA3AO.



18
4.  PROJECT 1MPLZEATION
A. Physical Achievements
Unit     Original        1981        Actual      Actual
Revision                 as % of
Revised
A. CANAL CONPONENT
Earthwork
Canal Remodelling          mcft         652          639          588*         92*
Distributaries & Minors   mcft           190*        215          201*         93*
Lining                      km          NA           118*         115          97*
Lining                     msft           30*         35           34          97*
Structures
Major Structures            no            76          92*          92*        100
Minor Structures            no          320*         158*         144*         91*
Outlets                     no           700*       1415*          - *         - *
B. DRAINAGE COMPONENT
Drains                     mcft         334          334          457         137
Structures                 no           585          585          590         101
Tubewells
Drilling                   no           250          500          514         103
Energizing                  no          250          500          514         103
Operator Quarters           no          250          500          216*         43*
Relift Stations            no              3           3            3         100
Evaporation Ponds           ac        57000        67500        33000          49
C.  ELECTRIF  COMPONENT
Sub-Stations               no              6           6            6         100
132 KV Tranam. Lines       mi            23           -            42         183
11 KV Distrib. Network    mi           1113           -          1776         160
Connection to Private
Tubewells                   no         2400         2850         1000          35
D. CONSULTING SERVICES
(Domestic)                 m/m          310          NA           679         219*
(Foreign]                  m/m           -           NA           114          -
N.B. * amended figures.



19
PART mH
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
LoanCredit                                    Purpece                Year of    LoanCrei         SwC        C_ns
ThIe                                                                Appro,a       Amout
Khairpur Groundwater and Salinity    Contol of waterlogging and salinity.  1962  US$21.15 M.   Compned  No PCR liHte
Control Project (Cr. 22-PAK)                                                                                  in OED
Directory.
Khairpur Tile Drainage and      Tre dainage and ingtion                1976       US$14 M.    Completed   PCR iwued
Irrigated Farming Development    development.                                                               June 19S9.
Project (Cr. 648-PAK)
Salinity Control and Reclamation  Control of ulinity and watedossing.  1979       US$60 M.    Compled    Draft PCR
Project (SCARF) Marian                                                                                         under
(Cr. 877-PAK)                                                                                               prmpatiom.
On-Farm Water Management         To increase agricultural production by  1911   SDR 33.4 M.   Complted   PCR issued
(OFWM) Project (Cr. 1163-PAK)    improved magement of water saved                                           June 1988.
through watercourae renovation and
cleaning and related measures in the
fbur provinces.
Command Water Management Project To increaae agricultural production   1934     SDR 43.7 M.   Compited
(Cr. 1487-PAK)                   thrugh improved water mangement,
along with upplyig agricultural
srvice and non-water inputs in
sven sub-project areas totalling
S10,000 ac located in aOl four
provinces.
Left Bank Outfall Drain-Stage I  To provide an ultimate outlet to the  1984     SDR 147.6 M.   Ongoing
Project (Cr. 1532-PAK)            ea for drainage effluent from
igrated areaa of the Lower Indus
Basin.
Second On-Farm Water Management To consolidate gains achieved under    1985     SDR 34.8 M.   Completed   PCR isued
Project (Cr. 1603-PAK)           Cr.1 163-PAK and improve OFWM                                              May 1993.
programs in the four provinces to
enable them to realize their potential.
SCARP Trmnition Pilot Project    Testing transfer modes of public      1986      SDR 8.7 M.   CompleWd   PCR isued
(Cr. 1693-PAK)                   tubeweU operation in fresh                                                 June 1993.
groundwater area to private
ownership and operation.
Third On-Farm Water Management   To increase aiculturl production by   1991     US$36.3 M. &    Ongoing
Project (Ln. 3327-PAK & Cr.      effective use of water saved through            SDR 33.4M.
2245-PAK)                        renovation of wateroufses and
related mesureas in irdgated aa well
as bani areas of the four provinces,
FATA and FANA
Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia Project  Increase agricultural productivity and  1992   SDR 39.6 M.    Ongoing
(Cr. 2410-PAK)                   income by improving reliability of
water supplies and urface drainage
and reduce the need for sub-surface
drainage.
Second SCARP Transition Project (Cr. Follow-up on SCARP Transition Pilot    1991  SDR 14.8 M.    Ongoing
2257-PAK)                        Project to trnsfer public SCARP
tubewells to private ownership and
operation in fresh groundwater areas.



20
2. Project Timetable
Iten                            Date Planned              Date Revised               Date Actual
Identification                        -                         -                     Nov. 1968
Preparation                           -                         -                     Dec. 1975
Appraisal                             -                         -                     Nov. 1977
Negotiations                          -                         -                     Sep. 1977
Board Approval                        -                         -                   Dec. 6, 1977
Credit Signature                      -                         -                   Jan. 19, 1978
Credit Effectiveness                  -                         -                   Dec. 28, 1978
ECNEC Approval                        -                         -                  Feb. 10, 1981"
Amendment of Legal                    -                         -                   Nov. 19, 1983
Documents2'
Credit Closing                  June 30, 1985            June 30, 19872'           June 30, 19923'
Credit Completion                     -                         -                  Nov. 19, 1992
"When ECNEC approved the project it requested that the proposed two-mile electrification grid for
tubewell power supply be changed to a one-mile grid as an incentive to fiamers. The revised cost
total including this change (Rs 1,882 million) was authorized by the Chairman of ECNEC in August
1982.
2' Reflecting 1981 change in project scope.
' Last of five one-year extensions.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY8S FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93
Apprisal Estimte"   0.50 7.00 19.00 33.50 50.00 60.00 70.00    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
AcUal              0.00 0.32 088  1.04  1.72 2.84  3.30 4.43 6.53 16.84 26.03 39.04 49.99 60.57  65.94
Actuas c    of        0    5    5    3    3    5    5    6    9   24   37   56   71   87    94
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: Novenber 19, 1992.
"From Lon Disburwement System. Differs from schedule provided in Annex I 1, Table 3 of SAR At project revision in
1981 no revised disbursement schedule appears to have been prepared.



21
4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Achievements
U.k              Orgia              1981           Actual         Actea
Revision                            % of
Revied
A. CANAL COMPONENT
Eartwork
Canal Remodelling                         mcft                  652             639             588              92
Distributaries & Minors                   mcft                  190             215             201              93
Lining                                     km                   NA              118             115              97
Lining                                    nuft                   30              35              34              97
Strctum
Major Structures                            no                    76              92              92             100
Minor Structures                            no                   320             158             144              91
Outlets                                     no                   700            1415               -
B. DRAINAGE COMPONENT
Drains                                    mcft                  334             334             457             137
Structures                                 no                   585             585             590             101
Tubewels
Drilling                                   no                   250             500             514             103
Energizing                                 no                   250             500             514             103
Operator Quarters                          no                   250             500             216              43
Rdift Stations                             no                     3               3               3             100
Evaporation Ponds                          Ac                57,000          67,500          33,000              49
C. ELECTRIFICATION COMPONENT
Sub-Stations                               no                     6               6               6             100
132 KV Transmission Lines                  mi                    23               -              42             183
11 KV Distribution Network                 mi                 1,113               -           1,776             160
Connection of Private Tubewells            no                 2,400           2,850           1,000              35
D. CONSULTING SERVICES
Domestic                                  s/m                   310             NA              679             219
Foreign                                   s/m                     -             NA              114
Note: Table amended following Part 11, pars 21.



22
5. Project Cost and Flnancing
A. Project Cost
SAR Co,  "            Revisd               Acma Cost
Cost u               (a of
06130/1992)
PRs        USM         PRs       USS        PRs        USS
LAnd Acquisition                                      19.9         2.0       42.5       4.3        84.2       5.9
Civil Works                                          705.2        71.2      785.6      79.4     2,38.2      120.3
Construction of Colony                                   -           -       57.0       5.8        52.5       4.4
Canal Remodelling                                    180.0        18.2      205.8      20.8     1,160.8      56.9
Unit n Tubewells and Drains 2                        125.7        12.7          -         -           -         -
Unit V Tubowells "                                    59.0         6.0       93.0       9.4       282.4      12.7
EJectrification Works                                173.9        17.5      191.4      19.3       229.5      12.9
Drainage Works                                       166.6        16.8      159.2      16.1       229.1      13.7
Engineering, Supervision & Admin.                        -          -        79.2       8.0       430.9      19.7
On-Fanr Invesmn 3ts"                                 200.4        20.2          -         -           -         -
Unit m Tubewells                                      60.4        6.1           -         -           -
Land Levelling                                       100.0        10.1          -         -           -         -
Gypsum                                                40.0         4.0          -         -           -         -
Equipment and Vediles                                153.3       15.5       151.1      15.3       427.2      30.0
Canal Remodelling Equipment                           44.5        4.5        44.5       4.5       167.7      13.5
Electrical Conmponents                                86.7        8.8        84.5       8.6       220.0      14.1
Transport, Levelling Equipment, Misc.                 22.1         2.2       22.1       2.2        39.5       2.4
Monitoring and Evaluation                                -                      -         -         9.5       0.4
Coultants                                             51.8        5.2        S1.8       5.2        45.9       2.9
Base Cost                                           1,130.6      114.1    1,031.0     104.2           -         -
Physical Contingencies                               140.0        14.2      117.0      1 1.8S
Price Contingencies                                  412.2        41.7      283.8      28.7           -         -
Total (SAR)                                     1,682.8      170.0    1,449.8      144.7
Interest during Construction                             -          -       432.2      43.6       585.8      33.1
O&M during Construction                              117.6        11.9       18.0       1.8        54.8       2.4
Total Project Cost                              1,800.4      181.9    1,832.0      190.1    3,592.6      195.0
" November 1976 prices.
Approved PC-I, February 1981. See Project rimetable, footnote 1.
" Deleted in 1981 project revision.
Unit TV and V drminage tubewells and evaporation ponds in actule costs.



23
Com"ents:
(a)     Total project cost in mid-1992 was PRs 3.59 billion (US$ 195 million), compared to the revised
estimate of PRs 1.88 billion (US$190 million), an overrun of 91 % in Rupee terms but only 3% in
US dollar terms (which reflects the substantial devaluation of the Pakistan Rupee against the US
dollar).
(b)     Civil works accounted for the major share of cost with 66% of the total compared to about 50%
estimated in the 1981 revision. Most important among civil works items were canal remodelling;
engineering, supervision and administration; and drainage tubewells and evaporation ponds.
(c)     Variations at project revision in 1981 included: (i) deletion of on-farm investments, financing for
which was to be provided under the fourth IDA credit for the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan (Cr. 957-PAK); (ii) deferral to a later phase of (a) drainage tubewells in Unit II - until
assessment of the effect of private (irrigation) tubewell installation in the area; (b) remodelling of
minor canals in Units II and III - until the scope of private tubewell development in these aeas was
accurately estimated; (c) drainage tubewells in Units IV and V originally proposed for locations not
critically susceptible to waterlogging problems; and (d) surface drains and disposal system to the
extent required for (a) to (c); (iii) assumption that private tubewells installed in Units II and III would
be electrically driven rather than diesel-powered; and (iv) replacement of the originally proposed two-
mile electrification grid for tubewell power supply by a one-mile grid as an incentive to farmers who
would have to pay less for the shorter hook-up lines.
(d)     The cost overrun was partly due to quantity increases and partly to price increases. The original cost
estimate was based on preliminary surveys. Work quantities increased when detailed surveys and
designs were carried out. Price contingencies provided in the revised cost estimate were not
sufficient to absorb the cost increases during the prolonged implementation period. The increase in
cost for canal remodelling was mainly due to high cost of lining of the new feeders. The increased
cost of drainage tubewells was due to the increase in their number (to 514, of which 391 in Unit V
and 123 in Unit IV) and unit cost. The increase in cost of electrification was due to the expansion
of the network. The increase in the cost of engineering, supervision and administration was due to
rising pay and allowances.
(e)     The average cost per acre, using the originally envisaged project area (1.27 million ac, of which Unit
1 338,000 ac, Unit 11 388,000 ac, Unit IV 76,000 ac, and Unit V 468,000 ac) and the revised cost
of PRs 1.88 billion (US$190 million), would have been about PRs 1,480 (US$150). On the basis
of the area actually benefited and the completion cost of PRs 3.59 billion (US$195 million), the
average cost is PRs 6,370/ac (US$346/ac). Areas benefited include Units IV and V, and about
20,000 acres in Units II and HI - about 20 ac commanded by each of the 1,000 electric tubewells
installed - or a total of 564,000 ac.



24
B. Project Fnancing
-    C _ q .du                                                           Fed
us$          nR          urn          fR         us$         PR I
NmbG    maim   MNil    MOil    h_   maim
IDA
Civil Works                             45.0                      55.5"                   62.7"
Gyp um                                   2.0                        -                       -
Agricultural Credit                      8.5
Consultants                              6.0                       6.0                     3.2
- Project Implementation                (4.0)                     (4.0)                   (2.6)
- Preparation of Other Proects          (2.0)                     (2.0)                   (0.6)
Unallocated                              8.5                       8.5
Sub-Towta                            70.0         693.0        70.0       693.0        65.9     1,3953      39
ODA
Civil Works                              9.1                       7.7
Equipment and Vehicles                   5.9                      11.7
Sub-Total                            15.0"        148.5        19.4Y      192.3       17.3        231.7      3
KfW
Electrification Equipment                8.3                       8.3                    7.4          -
Sub-Toga                              8.3v         82.2         8.3v        82.5       7.4"       107.1      6
Domestic                                88.6         876.7        92.4        914.27'   104.4       1,85855'    52
ToWa                                181.9       1,800.4       190.1       1,382.0    19S.0      3,592.6    100
"Includes equipment and materials for tubewefls.
L Equivalent to £ 8.6 million.
" Equivalent to £ 10.8 million.
4' Equivalent to £ 11.02 mitlion (£ 10.3 million plus supplementary grunt of £ 0.34 mitlion l  uraent bance of £ 0. 12 million).
" Equivalent to DM 20 million.
w Equivalent to DM 19.87 million (originl loan amount leu unspent balance of DM 0. 13 million).
7 Includes only government contribution as deletion of on-farm investments (agriculur credit, gypwm) did not allow
any contributions from banks or benefiting farmers.
Note: USS equivalents of cofinancierc' contributions partly estimrted.



CO)' E 5 e S eU e. 5 > e 5 e   N | 7 E                       0
CZ2E                     =2a     
-1 -A 1  - - 0L~ii
U. S                                                               - t                   ° i 8;8     :*Oi       
z z z  z z ~     ~     JU~IrJhu.   I
> > >  >b .                                 ~I                     j



26
Comments:
(a)     Cropping intensity and crop yields at full development are based on agro-economic surveys.
(b)     'Te reduction in area developed (4,860 ha) and benefiting families (1,000) is due to loss of cultivated
land affected by seepae from evaporation ponds.
NA      Not available as a full reappraisal was not carried out.
B. Economic hnpact
4     Ama             Reid Fd             Admi
Economic Rate of Return           19%                   20%                 23%
Undwyiag Amsiptions
Project Ufe                     30 Years               30 Yeuc             30 Ye
Full Development                10 Years after project  10 Yeom after prject  10 Yam after project
completion (1993)     compledon           completion
Valuation of Traded Items       CP of 1.00             CF of 1.00          CF of 1.00
Valuation of non-taded Items    CP of 0.85             CP of 0.35          CF of 0.35
Valuation of UnWilled Labor     CF of 0.70             CF Of 0.70          CF of 0.70
Comments:
(a)     The higher ERR now estimated is due to improved crop yields which more than offset the adverse
factors including higher investment costs per ha than estimated at appraisal and prolonged
implementation period.
(b)     Economic re-evaluation of the project was undertaken following to the extent possible the same
approach as in the SAR. This included the use of conversion factors - SCF of 0.85, and specific
conversion factor of 0.7 for labor. Since these conversion factors were not given in the SAR, those
used in the SCARP Mardan SAR prepared at about the same time were taken.
C. Mnancal Impact
Not Applicable



27
D. StudS.
Study                    Pwrpm - DeW d at                  Stimn     -mp
Agro-Socio-Economic      Obtaining rekvat da  for de    la_ed 1982  Povided usl bac4kod i"muadam.
Survey - BDeling         asansammt of projct benefits
(year covered: 1980w81).
Agro-Socio-Economic      Obtaining  tevart data for th  lad  1985  Pvde priodic modblg  of  alcwul  prodot
Survey - Follow-up I     aseameAt of prject benfts                   ad  eocloomic comiliom in thw project ate. Dat
(year covened: 193344).                     obtained wee useid in th PC  execise.
Agr-Socio-8conomic       Obtaining revant dat fo th     lame 1988
Survey - Follow-up 11    as_emat of project benefift
(year covered: 198647).
Agr-Socio-Economic       Obtaiing rlvant daet for th    le 1991*
Suivey - Follow-up H     asnme_ t of proect benefits
(year coveed: 1989-90).
Feasibility Study of     Preparaton of odber irgapti     Comopbated  te proj  ba been appaied end the IDA crdh be_r
Pordwah Eastern Sadiqia   and drainaep ptqocts.                      effetive cn Marc 29, 193.
(South) Project



28
7. Status of Covenants
Development Credit                        Coveusm                          Desdline for Compiance  Stats
3.03                WAPDA to enploy consltants to assist in (i) project    Sec. 3.03 (a) condition  Delayed
implementation nd (i) preparation of other irrigation  of credit effectivene.   compliance
and drainage projects
3.05 (1)            Borrower to submit to IDA a plan to improve grain stor    June 30, 1982         Substantially in
in Pakisan                                                                      compliance
3.05 3ii)           Borrower to comnmence implementation of grain storage plan  July 1, 1983        With additiors in
in project area                                                                 progress, available
storage capacity
wa considered
adequate
3.07                Borrower to establish and maintain Project Steering    Condition of credit      In compliance, but
Committee and Project Coordination Conmmittee          effectiveness            Steering
Commnittee
meetinsg very
infrequent
4.01 (b)            Audit reports due to IDA not later than six mnonthe after end                   Debyed
of each fiscal year                                                             compliance
4.02 (a)            Study to be caride out on agricultural pricing and     Aug. 31, 1985, for       Delayed
taxation with particular reference to water charges    Part DI of Study         compliance (Part
D received Sept.
1986)
PuzUab A,geaet
2.03 (b)            No surface water to Unit I from  bout October 31 to March After October 31, 1980    Not in compliance
31 each year
3.01                GOPunjab to revise structure and level of water charges                         Delayed partia
compliance
3.02 (a)            GOPunjab to increase water charges in three stags to   July 1, 1990             New schedule for
recover full O&M cost of irrigation nd drainage facilities                      reaching full
and reasonable portion of investment costa                                      O&M cost
recovery first
agreed under
ISRP-UD
(Cr. 1888-PAK) in
1988, and then
under Fordwah
Eastern Sadiqia
project



29
S. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
PNe-Appraisal  Appraisal       Negotiatiom     Supervision      Total
Pre-FY81       22.6             122.5          6.1               19.9           171.1
FY81            -              -               -                 12.7            12.7
FY82           -               -               -                 23.7           23.7
FY83            -              -               -                 13.7            13.7
FY84            -              -               -                 17.9            17.9
FY85            -              -               -                 15.1            15.1
FY86            -              -               -                 36.0           36.0
FY87           -               -               -                33.7            33.7
FY88           -               -               -                25.1            25.1
FY89           -               -               -                 26.7           26.7
FY90           -               -               -                 19.3           19.3
FY91           -               -               -                 11.7            11.7
FY92           -               -               -                 3.8             3.8
FY93           -               -               -                 13.61"         13.6
FY94           -               -               -                 3.7             3.7
Total          22.6            122.S           6.1             276.6"          427.8
" Including about 8 staff weeks spent by FAOICP for PCR prparation.



B. Missions
Stege of             Month/Year        No. of   Days hi        Specidzatlon          Status 2v Trend 3'   Types of
Project Cycbe                        Peraons     Fied          Reprsented '                              Problems 4
Identification   Carried out by GOP Consultants
Preparation
Appraisat             Nov. 76           6         26         AG,SS,EC,GW,IE,CS         -          -           -
Supervision 1         Sep. 78           1          8                IE                 -          -
Supervision 2         Mar. 79           1          4                AG                 1          2         M,O
Supervision 3         Feb. 80           2          5               AG,EN               1          2         T,P
Supervision 4         Nov. 80           2          6               IE,AE              3           2          F,P
Supervision 5         Aug. 81           3          8           IE,AE,IE EJNI          3           1          0
Supervision 6         Jan. 82           1          4                IE                2           1         M,O
Supervisicn 7         Mar. 83           2          8             2 IE EJI             2           1           T
Tech. Mission          May 83           1          4                SS                 -          -
SLpervision 8         Feb. 84           1         10              IE EJM              2           2          T
Supervision 9         June 85           2         13            IE,GH EJI3            2           2         M,T
Ovedl       Dev.    Compi. w.   Prt Mlgt.v   Avia. Funds 
stas    Impact"    Cov."
Supervision 10        Apr. 86           2         10            IE,AE EJMI            3           1           -              2                1
Supervision 11        Jan. 87           1          8              AE (JM]             2           1                          1                1             0
Supervisionl 12       Jan. 8            1         11              AE CJM              2           2           -              2                1
Tech. Mission           ay 88           1          9                IE                 -          -           -              -
Supervision 13        Oct. 88           1          8              AE EJM3             2           2           -              2                2
Tech. lission         Feb. 89           2          9               2 IE                .                      .              -
Supervision 14        Sep. 89           2         10               AE,IE              2           2           1              2                2
Supervision 15         may 90           1          8                IE                2           2           1              2                2
Supervision 16         may 91           1         15                IE                3           2           1              2                1
PCR                   Feb. 93           3         14             IE,AG,FA              -          -           -              -
AEmagricuttural economist, AG=agriculturalist, CS=credit specialist, EC-economist, FAfinancial analyst, GH=geohydroLogist, GU--groundwater specialist,
IE=irrigation engineer, SS=soils speciaList, CJM]=joint mission with ODA and KfW or ODA.
2  1 - Proble_free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problem; 3 - Major problems.
3' 1 - Improving; 2 - Stationary.
F - Financial; N - Managerial; T - Technical; P - Political; 0 - Other.
1  No significant problems; 2 - Moderate probtems; 3 - Major problems  but appropriate actions being taken to address these problems.



31
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. FARM INCOMES
1.          The SAR assumed increases in farm incomes (owner-operated farms) including wage income
from off-farm work in agriculture for three different farm sizes as follows:
Ng Fam [em by Fugm  ()
-,, , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............,   .... .,.I
.    .: : .... :: -7 : .  .  .....
1gu0sw.ma1    0      -~0 17D                                                     0 h
NW V*              ,4                     70
Restated in 1992 prices, incremental incomes would be as follows:
unit n8,0                                             04t334
UJnit MI                       ,771,5                                       24.,697
UtnitsIV &                    7,S7161732,343:
2.          The impact of the project on farm income has been reestimated by preparing illustrative
farm budgets for the three different farm sizes in two different areas - Units II & Inl, and Units IV & V
(Tables 1-6). The reason for combining Units II & HI for this purpose is that the approach for the
development of Unit II was revised in 1981 to be the same as that of Unit III, i.e. installation of private
tubewells in place of public tubewells, and similarity of cropping patterns, given the existence of fresh
groundwater in both units. The estimates show incremental farm incomes at full development in 1992
prices as follows:



32
- - -
PAISAN: Salinity Control and R.cbhmtion Pwt (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: EBonomic Evaluato
.     i.  ..   .. . ..                                                               . . . .. . . . . . .
.  _ ::-::.:. :.   ::.:. -.1... . . . . . . . . . . .  .   :.   ..:..
.   t .   .  ' .   ,   t   ,     4 T  T   .     i,  .   .     T    T. T   . T  .   ;  r     ,]    T.T.  Bf    >r r ..T   ..   .. .  .   .... ....
.,.."",.',',N,,'&,."''"'-';'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
This means real income increases of 12-39% for the S ac farm, 3-57% for the 12.5 ac farm, and 10-62%
for the 25 ac farm in Units II and ml, and of 31% (S ac), 27% (12.5 ac) and 25% (25 ac) in Units IV
and V, compared to appraisal estimates. The rise in incomes is due to higher cropping intensity and crop
yields, and a larger share of high value crops (vegetables and orchards) than projected at appraisal.
3.           The project is expected to directly benefit around 99,000 farm families, about 1,000 less
than targeted at appraisal. The reduction in benefiting families is due to the loss of cultivated land (about
12,000 ac) caused by seepage from the evaporation ponds (see para 63."I
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Appraisal Estimates
4.           At appraisal, the project's economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 19%, based
on the following assumptions:
-            project life of 30 years, including an implementation period of 6 years;
-        ~~full development reached in about 10 years;
-            prices of cotton, rice, wheat, oilseeds, sugarcane, millet, and fertilizer based on projected
1985 world market prices expressed in 1976 terms;
-        ~~economic prices of non-traded crops (like orchard and vegetables) based on local financial
prices adjusted by the ratio of economic prices to financial prices for traded crops; and
-            consideration of crop production "with" and "without" the project.
The project was revised in 1981 and a new ERR was estimated at 20%.
" Sec Government comment, Part 11, pa 21 a).



33
PAKSAN: Salinity Cotrol and Rchmation Prqoet (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annx 1: Economic Evaluation
PCR Estimates
5.         The recalculation of the project's ERR follows the SAR. The main differences are:
-          actual costs (Table 7) are used for FY79 to FY93; past expenditures have been adjusted to
1992 prices, using GDP deflator indices for the local cost component and the MUV index
for the foreign cost component (Table 8);
-          investments still needed to complete the project in Units II and III are estimated to be PRs
1.1 billion in financial prices, spread over FY94 - PRs 251.6 million, FY95 - PRs 357.8
million, FY96 - PRs 267.1 million, and FY97 - PRs 268.8 million;
-          higher cropping intensity and crop yields are used than projected at appraisal;
-          all values are expressed in terms of 1992, the project's final disbursement year; and
-          financial prices and economic prices of internationally traded goods are based on the SAR
for the Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South) Irrigation and Drainage Project (Report No.10461-
PAK, June 11, 1992) (Table 9).
6.         In addition, as in the SCARP Mardan PCR, the following conversion factors are used:Farm
labor - 0.7; civil works - 0.88; all other local costs - 0.85. It is also assumed that only about 75% of
the Unit IV and V area would ultimately benefit from drainage investment, since about 20% of the area
is not presently waterlogged, and an allowance of 5% has been made for other losses including seepage
from evaporation ponds.
7.         The expected crop mix does not represent a major departure from appraisal estimates, except
for vegetables and possibly orchards. It does assume, however, an increase in the share of high value
crops. Higher cropping intensity (an increase of 19%) and crop yields (an increase of 2-15%) over
appraisal estimates for full development are being achieved now, as shown by the latest agro-socio-
economic survey (1989-90), aided by the availability of agricultural support services, albeit less
effectively than foreseen at appraisal.
8.         On the basis of these assumptions, the revised economic rate of return (ERR) is 23% (Table
10) - 4% and 3% higher than the one expected at appraisal and project revision. Unlike in the SAR, only
an ERR for the whole project was recalculated, as it is difficult to distinguish with certainty the benefits
derived from different components. The improved ERR is due to the higher crop yields now projected,
which more than offset the adverse factors including delay in the implementation of civil works
(particularly canal remodelling in Units II and III), and higher investment costs per hetare than estimated
at appraisal.



34
Pr Ct Rp
PAKIrTAN: Smlity Conto ma Racmatsic Project (SCARP) VI, Cr. 7S4-PAK
Anx l:  8o  Evabhda.
9.         Given that part of invesmet cost and the entirety of project benefits are estimated, the
reoclculated ERR should be rated as broadly indicative. This is reinforced by the fact that the major
generatr of benefits, crop yields, canot be sustained unless adequate funds are allocated for the
operation nd maintenance of project irrigation and drainage facilities. Sensitivity analysis shows that
a combined reduction in bonefts and increae in costa by 20% will lower the ERR to 16%. A similar
reduction may result from delay in completing the unfinished canal remodelling works accompanied by
cost increses - not an unlikely event in view of recent project implementation experience - and
consequential delay in reaching full development production.



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: Econiomic Evaluation
Tabte 1.   Fan Nodet 1 (5 acres) -unit II & III Fanm Plodet - Financialt Budget (in Ru;ieca  '000)
Crop year
I ncremaent al
1 to  12   13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21  22 to 25   26    27    28    29    30
Main Production
Paddy (IRRI)                                            -        -0.6  -0.6  -0.6  -0.5 -0.5  -0.5  -0.5  -0.5           -0.5  -0.5  -0.5  -0.5  -0.5  *0.5
Seed Cotton                                             -     -7.4   7.9   7.9   7.9  7.9  7.9   7.9   7.9                7.9   7.9  7.9   7.9  7.9  7.9
Masize                                                  -        -0.9 -0.9 -0.9 -0.9 -0.9  -0.9 -0.8  -0.8               -0.8  -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8
K. Fodder (sorghium, maize)                             -     -0.9  0.9   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.4               1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
Vegetabtes, Karif                                       -     -0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3  0.3   0.3   0.3               0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4  0.4   0.4
Whteat                                                            3.2   3.5   3.7   3.9   4.1  4.4   4.6   4.8            5.0   5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0
Pulses                                                  -        -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7                 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7
oitseed (muistard)                                      -        -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2                 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2
R. Fodder (ijerseeat)                                   -     --0.2 -0.1  0.1  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.7                    0.8   0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8
Stugarcane                                              -         0.4  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7                  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7
Ochards                                                 -         1.3   1.1.  1.5   1.6   1.7   1.8   1.9   2.0           2.1   2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1
Sub-totat  Main Production--  ---  10.9  12.1  12.7  13.3  1-.0  1-.5  15.1  15.6                              16.2--  16.2  -6.2  16.2  -6.3 16.3
su-TtValu  Ofi Production                                         - 10.9  12.1 12.7 13.3 14.0 14.5 15.1 15.6                16.2 16.2 16.2 16.2 16.3 16.3
fiet Value Of Production  10.9 12.1 12.7 13.3 14.0 14.5 15.1 15.6              16.2 16.2 16.2 16.2 16.3 16.3~~~~~~~~~~1.
Production Cost                                                                                                                                                                      U
Operating
Iniputs
Paddy seed (IRRI)                               -        -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1                 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
Nitrogen (urea)                                 -         0.4   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.7  0.8  0.8             0.9   0.9  0.9   0.9  0.9  0.9
Phosphate (OAP)                                 -         0.3  0.3  0.3   0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5                 0.6   0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6
Toots                                           -         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1                  0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Uater charges                                   -         0.1   0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1               0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Cultivation                                     -         0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.6   0.6  0.6                 0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6
Transplanting                                   -     --0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1                 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
co tton seed                                    -         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1                  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Pesticides                                      -         0.8  0.9  0.9   1.0   1.1   1.1   1.2- 1.3              1.4   1.4   1.4   1.A   1.4   1.4
Mechantization                                  -         0.8  0.8  0.8   0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8                 0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8
Drilling                                        -         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1                  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
tJeeding                                        -         0.1  0.1  0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.1                0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
hiarvesting                                           -0.5  0.6  0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6  0.6  0.7                   0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7
K Fodder (sorghuma, maize)                      -        -0.1 -0&.I -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1                -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
Vegetabtes seed                                        --0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0                  -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0
Wheat seed                                      -         0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4                  0.4   0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
Threshiing                                      -     -0.6  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.8  0.0                     0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8
Putses seed                                     -        -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0  0.0                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Rt. Foidder (berseege)                          -         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1                  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Sugarcane secds                                 -         0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1                  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.!
Transportation                                  -     -0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1                     0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.!   0.!
Sub-totalInputs.  ...   .2.  4...  4..7   .9.  5.2.  5..5   5.7.  6.0.    6.3...   6.3.  6.3.  6.3.  6.3.  6..3
Sub-Total Oeaingput-  4.2  4.4  4.7  4.9   5.2  5.5  5.7  6.0                                                          6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3
CASII FLOWl BEFORtE FINANCING                              -      -6.8   7.7  5.1  8.4  8.8  9.1  9.4  9.7                  10.0  10.0 10.0 10.0 10.1 10.1
Sources 0f Finance
Transfer from Previouis Period                          -        4.2   4.4   4.7   4.9   5.2  5.5   5.7  6.0             6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3
Less  iransfer to Next Period                           -  4.2   4.4   4.7   4.9   5.2   5.5   5.7  6.0  6.3             6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3
Su-b-lotat Sour-ces Of f ina,nce                           --4.2 -0.3  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3 -0.3                   - 0.0  -0.0  -0.0  -0.0
iEt FIIIANICiuG                                              - -.2  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3  -0.3 -0.3 -0.3  -0.3- -0.0  -0.0 -0.0  -0.0 
FARM FAMLhiY (EJEIF ITS AFTER FINiANiCING                  --4.2  6.5   7.4   7.8   8.2  8.5   8.8   9.1  9.4               10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.1  10.1



Project Completion Repoon
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control and Reclamtion Project (SCARP) VI. Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: Economnic Evaluation
Toble 2.   Farm Nodel    I (5 acres) - lnit IV & V Farm Nodlt - Finrcist Budget (in Rupees '000)
Crop year
...... ........ ..... ....... ... .... . . . . . . .  .  . . .  . . .  . . .    . . .  . . . . .
Incrue,ftat
.....................................................................................
I to 12  13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21  ZZ to 25  26   27   28    29  30
s:SCSSS flit ESS =SUS 355* Saza Sarsara salE -s asss SESUIEUE Ezra *5*5 Eats 555= aSas
Main Production
Paddy (IRii)                                            - -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.1             -0.1  0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
seed Cotton                                        -    -  5.6  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1             6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1  6.1
maize                                                   - -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.2 -0.2             -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2
K. Fodder (sorghum, maize)                              -  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.1              1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2
Vegetables. Kari                                   -    -  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3              0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
Uheat                                              *    *  2.6  2.8  3.1  3.3  3.6  3.8  4.0  4.3              4.5  4.5  4.5  4.5  4.5  4.5
Pulses                                             -    - -0.6 -0.6 -0.5 -0.5  -0.5 -0.5 -0.5  -0.5           -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5
Oilseed (mustard)                                  -    -  0.4 *0.4 -0.4 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3             -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3
R. fodder (berseem)                                -    -  0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.6  0.8  0.9  L.O              1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1
Sugarcane                                          -    -  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1              1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1
Ochards                                            -    -  1.7  1.9  2.0  2.1  2.2  2.3  2.5  2.6              2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7
...S...a. . ..Pct. . .. . .... 0 .... .... 1 .... .. . . ...... .. ........  ....  ....  ...8. .... ....
Su-lotat  0ain Production                             -    - 10.1 11.3 12.0 12.7 13.4 14.0 14.6 15.2             15.8 15.8 15.8 15.8 15.9 15.9
Met Value Of Production                               -     -10.1 11.3 12.0 12.7 13.4 14.0 14.6 15.2             15.o 15.8 IS.P IS1.o 15.9 15.9
Production Cost
Operating
Inputs
Paddy seed (IRRI)                                * -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0             -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0
Uitrogen (urea)                             -        0.4  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.0             0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8
Phosphate (GAP)                                      0.3  0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5            0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5
loots                                      *    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Water charges                               -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Cultivation                                 -    -  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5             0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6
Cotton seed                                 -    *  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1             0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Pesticides                                  -    -  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.1              1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2
mechanization                                    -  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6              0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7
Dritting                                    -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Ueeding                                     -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
llarvesting                                      -  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.6             0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6
K fodder (sorghtw, maize)                   *    -  0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0            -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0
Vegetables seed                             -    - -0.0 -0.0 -0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0             0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
wheat seed                                  -    -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3             0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
lhreshing                                  -    -  0.5  -0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.7  0.7             0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7
Ptulses seed                                -    - -0.1  -0.1  -01I -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1         -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
R. Foidder (berseem)                        -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Sugarcane seeds                             -    - .   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
Transportation                             -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
.....t .t  .  .. .... 3.. ..    . ..     ... .. . .... .. .. ........ ....  ... . . .... .... .....
Sub-lotal Ipruts                               -    -  3.5  3.8  4.1  4.3  4.6  4.9  5.1  5.4              5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7
suib-Total oper;titig                   --3.5  3-8  4.1  4.3  4.6  4.9 S.l  5.4                              5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7
CASII FLOU BEFORE FillANCIIG                          -    -  6.6  7.5  7.9  8.4  8.8  9.2  9.5  9.8             10.1 10.1 10.2 10.2 10.2 10.2
Sources Of Finance
Transfer froin Previotis Period                    -    -  3.5  3.8  4.1  4.3  4.6  4.9  5.1  5.'             5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7
Less Transfer 1o Next Period                       -  3.5  3.8  4.1  4.3  4.6  4.9  5.1  5.4  5.7             5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7  5.7
Sub-Total Sources Of Finance                            -3.5 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3                   -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 
RET FINAIICING                                        * -3.5 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3                   -0.0 -0.0 -0.0  -0.0
FARM FAMILY BEIIEFIIS AFTER FIIIAPICIIIG              - -3.5  6.3  7.2  7.7  8.1  8.6  8.9  9.2  9.5             10.1 10.1 10.2 10.2 10.2 10.2
Returns per Familyy-Day of Labor                           -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              3.1 I .1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 3.   Farm Model 11 (12.5 acres) - Unit 11 & III Farm Model - Fimmciel Bxuget (in Rupees '000)
Crop year
Ii;crementaI
I to 12  13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21  22 to,25  26   27   28   29   30
=:::::=  =:=: :=:= =::= ::== ==== =r== ==== ra   ===r ar= t  ==== s=r= == z==r =: =:
Main Production
Paddy (IRRI)                                       -    - -1.1 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -0.9 -0.9 -0.9 -0.8              -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8
Seed Cotton                                        -    - 16.6 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8              17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8 17.8
Maize                                              -    - -2.3 -2.3 -2.3 -2.3 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2 -2.2              -2.1 -2.1  -2.1 -2.1 -2.1 -2.1
K. Fodder (sorghun, maize)                         -    -  1.5  1.7  1.8  2.0  2.1   2.3  2.4  2.6              2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7
Vegetables. Karif                                        -  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2              1.2  1.2  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.6
wheat                                                    -  6.3  6.8  7.3  7.8  8.3  8.8  9.3  9.8             10.3 10.3 10.3 10.3 10.3 10.3
Pulses                                             -    - -1.5 *1.5 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5             -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5 -1.5
Oilseed (imustard)                                 *    - -0.4 -0.4  -0.4  -0.4 -0.4 -0.4 -0.4 -0.4            -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3
R. Fodder (berseem)                                -       -0.9 -0.7 -0.5 -0.3 -0.1   0.2  0.4  0.6             0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8
Sugarcane                                          -    -  0.4  0.7  1.0  1.2  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5               1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5
ochards                                            -    -  2.8  3.0  3.3  3.5   3.7  4.0  4.2  4.5              4.7  4.7  4.7  4.7  4.7  4.7
Sbotl.. a P u n  .6   .2   .6   .0   .5   .6   .8  .9           3.1   .1   .2 .    34.  .5
Sub-Total Oain Production                              -    - 22.6 25.2 26.6 20.0 29.5 30.6 31.8 32.9             34.1 34.1 34.2 34.3 34.4 34.5
lIet Vatue Of Production                               -        Z2.6 25.2 26.6 28.0 29.5 30.6 31.8 32.9           34.1 34.1 34.2 34.3 34.4. 34,5
Production Cost
Operating
Inputs
Paddy seed (IRRI)                           -    - -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1          -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
Nitrogen (urea)                             -        0.8  1.0  1.1  1.2  1.3  1.4  1.6  1.7              1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8
Phosphlate (DAP)                                  -  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.1              1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.2
loots                                       -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Uater charges                               -    *  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
Culltivation                                      -  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1              1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1
Transplanting                               -    * -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1        -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1
Cotton seed                                       -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2              0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
Pesticides                                        -  1.7  1.8  2.0  2.2  2.3  2.5  2.7  2.9              3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0
Mechanization                               -    -  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.7  1.7  1.7               1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7
Drilling                                    -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1               0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
Ueeding                                     -    -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
llarvesting                                 -        1.1  1.1  1.2  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4  1.4              1.5  1.5   1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5
K rodder (sorghum, maize)                   -    -  0.1-0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1          -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1  -0.1
Vegetables seed                                    -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0         -0.0  0.0  0.0           0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Ul.eat seed                                 -    -  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.7  0.7              0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0 8  0.8
Ilireshiing                                 -    -  1.1  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4  1.4  1.5  1.6               1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6
Pulses seed                                       - -0.1 -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1          -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
R. Foidder (berseem)                        -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2              0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
Sugarcane seeds                             -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  O.l  0.1  0.1  0.1
transportation                              -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2              0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  o.2
S-otl.. ...n  ..t. ...8  ..1  . ...1 .3.1   .   .9  ..51   .1.1  ...7.13.   ...3  ...3  .3  .3  .3
Sub-Total Inputs                                -     -8.5  9.1  9.7 10.3 10.9 ll S 12.1 12.7              13.3 13.3 13.3 15 3 13.3 13.3
Sub-lotal Operating                                -    -  8.5  9.1  9.7 10.3 10.9 11.5 12.1 12.7             13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3
CASII FLOW BEFORE FINAIICIG                            -    - 14.1 16.2 17.0 17.8 18.6 19.2 19.7 20.3             20.8 20.8 20.9 21.0 21.1 21.2
Sources Of Finance
transfer From Previous Period                      -    -  8.5  9.1  9.7 10.3 10.9 11.5 12.1 12.7             13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3
Less Transfer To Next Period                       -  8.5  9.1  9.7 10.3 10.9 11.5 12.1 12.7 13.3             13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3 13.3
. . ...    .. .     ...   ...   ....   .. .   .....   .. .     ...   .. .     ..... .   ....   ....   .. .   .. .     . ...
Sub-Total Sources Of Finance                           - -8.5 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6                  -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0
NET FIIIAIICIIIG                                       * -8.5 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6 -0.6                - -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0
FAR1M FAMILY IEIIEfITS AFIER  fIIAHICIIICG               -8.5 13.5 15.6 16.4 17.2 lf.0l 18.6 19.1 19.7           7n.8 7n1 I 7n.9 71 n 71.1 71 7



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: Economirc Evaluation
Table 4.  Form todel 11 (12.5 acres) - LUnit IV & V Farn  Model - Finrwcial Budiget (in Rltees '0W0)
Crop year
................. ............................... ..... ......... ........... ... 
I gcrefntat 
.............. ....... ........... ....... ........... ..................
1 to 12  13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21  22 to'3O
Main Production
Paddy (IRRI)                                       -      -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5              -0.5
Seed Cotton                                        -    - 13.5 14.6 14.6 14.6 14.6 14.6 14.6 14.6              14.6
Mai re                                             -    - -0.9 -0.9 -0.9 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8              .0.7
K. Fodder (sorghitue. maize)                       -    -  1.3  1.5  1.7  1.9  2.1  2.3  2.5  2.7               2.9
Wheat                                                    -  5.6  6.1  6.7  7.2  7.8  8.3  8.9  9.4             10.0
Pulses                                                   - -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.8 -0.7 -0.7             .0.7
Oilseed (u.istard)                                       - -1.3 -1.2 -1.2 .1.2 -1.1  -1.1  -1.1  -1.1          -1.0
R. Fodder (berseem)                                -    -  0.3  0.6  0.8  1.0  1.2  1.4  1.7  1.9               2.1
Sugarcane                                          -    -  2.6  2.9  3.3  3.7  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0               4.0
Ochards                                                     2.1  2.3  2.5  2.7  2.9  3.1  3.3  3.5              3.7
Sub-Total main Prodkction                              -    - 21.8 24.6 26.2 27.8 29.4 30.6 31.8 33.1             34.3
Met Value Of Production                                -     - 21.8 24.6 26.2 27.8 29.4 30.6 31.8 33.1            34.3
Prodtction Cost
Operating
Inixts                                                                                                                                        00
Paddy seed (IRRI)                           -       -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1          -0.1
Nitrogeni (urea)                            -    -  0.8  1.0  1.1  1.2  1.3  1.5  1.6  1.7               1.8
Phosphate (OAP)                             -    -  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.18  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.1              1.2
Tools                                       -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1
Vater charges                               -    -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.2
Cultivation                                 -    -  0.9  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1               1.1
Iransplanting                               -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1              0.1
Cotton seed                                 -    -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.2
Pesticides                                  -    -  1.4  1.5  1.7  1.9  2.0  2.2  2.4  2.5               2.7
mechanization                               -    -  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.5  1.5               1.5
Dritling                                    *    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1               0.1
Ueeding                                     -    -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.2
llarvesting                                 -    -  0.9   1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.2  1.2              1.3
K Fodder (sorgliun, maize)                  -    - -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1          -0.1
Uhieat seed                            -    -     -  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.7  0.7              0.8
threshiing                                  -     -  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.4  1.5              1.6
Putses seed                                 -    - -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0           0.0
Vegetables seed                             -    -  0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0  0.0  0.0               0.0
R. Foidder (berseem)                        -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.2
Sugarcarie seeds                            -     -  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5             0.5
Transportation                                       0 2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3             0.3
Sub-lotat Inputs                                -    -  8.2  8.8  9.4 10.1 10.7 11.3 11.9 12.6             13.2
Sub-Total Operating                                -         -  8.2  8.8  9.4 10.1 10.7 11.3 11.9 12.6        13.2
CASII FLOu BEFORE F IIIAIICIIIG                        -    - 13.7 15.8 16.8 17.8 18.7 19.3 19.9 20.5             21.2
Sources Of Finance
Transfer froms Previotis Period                    -    -  8.2  8.8  9.4  10.1 10.7 11.3 11.9 12.6            13.2
Less transfer to Next Period                         38.2  8.8  9.4 10.1 10.7 11.3 11.9 12.6 13.2             13.2
Suib-lotat Sources Of Finance                          - -8.2 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7
EitE  FINAIICIIIC                                       --.2, -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7  -0.7 -0.7 -0.7
FAR1t FAMIIY nFIDEFItS ArIER FliIAHIICIIC               - -8.z 13.1 15.2 16.2 17.1 18.1 I t.7 19.3 19.9          71.2
n i  n 1  n i  n i  n A    n i  n         l n i   n i



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 5.  Farm Nodel ITT (25 acres) - Unit 11 & III Farm ModeL - Financial Buliget (in Rtuees  000)
Crop year
,,........... ..............................,,,..................................  .,,,,,...........:
Incrcircntal
,.......................................................................................
I to 12  13      14    15  16   17   18  19  20    21  22 to 25  26   27   28   29   30
Main Production
Paddy (IRRI)                                               - -2.3 -2.3 *2.2 -2.2 *2.2 -2.1 -2.1 -2.0             -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0
Seed Cotton                                                - 37.8 40.4 40.4 40.4 40.4 40.4 40.4 40.4             40.4 40.4 40.4 40.4 40.4 40.4
maize                                                      - -4.2 -4.0 -3.9 -3.8 -3.7 -3.6 -3.5 -3.4             -3.3 -3.3 -3.3 -3.3  3.3  3.3
K. Fodder (sorghum, maize)                          -      -  0.6  0.7  0.9  1.1  1.2  1.4   1.6  1.7             1.9   1.9  1.9  1.9  1.9  1.9
Vegetables, Kari I                                  -      -  2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8              2.8  2.8  3.1  3.3  3.6  3.8
Uheat                                               -      - 10.9 11.7 12.6 13.4 14.2 15.1 15.9 16.8             17.6 17.6 17.6 17.6 17.6 17.6
Pulses                                              -      - -1.9 -1.9 -1.5 -1.0  -1.8 -1.7 -1.7 -1.7            -1.6 -1.6 -1.6 -1.6 -1.6 -1.6
Oitseed (Custard)                                   -      - -1.3 -1.3 -1.3 -1.3 -I.3 -1.3 -1.3 -1.3             -1.3 -1.3 -1.3 -1.3 -1.3 -1.3
R. Fodder (berseem)                                 -      - -3.4 -3.2 -3.0 -2.8 -2.6 -2.4 -2.1 -1.9             -1.7  1.7  -1.7 -1.7 -1.7 -1.7
Sugarcane                                           -      -  8.4  9.3 10.2 11.1 11.9 11.9 11.9 11.9             11.9 11.9 11.9 11.9 11.9 11.9
Ochards                                             -      -  0.9  1.1  1.4  1.6  1.9  2.1  2.4  2.6              2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9
S ..----otal Main Pruci  . . - -.8.3 53.5 5.0- 58.5 6.1-  6.7- -.... 6.0-   67.7 6.7- 67.9 6.2-  6.1.. 68.7 ----
Sub-Total 0ain Production                                     - 48.3 53.5 56.0 58.5 61.1 62.7 64.4 66.0             67.7 67.7 67.9 68.2 68.4 68.7
Met Value Of Prodiction                                *      -48.3 53.5 56.0 58.5 61.1 62,7 64,4 66.0              67.7 67.7 67.9 68.2 65,4 68.7
Production Cost
Operat ingW
I nput s                                                                                                                                                        so
Paddy seed (IRRI)                           -       - -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  0.1          -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1  -0.1
Nitrogen (utea)                             -       -  1.6  1.9  2.1  2.3  2.6  2.8  3.1  3.3              3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6
Phosplhate (DAP)                             -      -  1.0  1.2  1.3  1.5  1.6  1.8  1.9  2.1              2.2  2.2  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3
lools                                       -       -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2              0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
Uater charges                                       *  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4              0.4  0.4  0.1  0.4  0.1  0.4
Cultivation                                            1.5  1.6  1.6  1.7  1.7   1.8  1.8  1.9             2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0
Transplanting                               -      - -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  -0.1          -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
Cotton seed                                  -      -  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5              0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5
Pesticides                                  -       -  3.6  3.9  4.3  4.6  5.0  5.3  5.7  6.0              6.4  6.4  6.4  6.4  6.4  6.4
Mechanization                                -      -  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.5  3.6  3.6  3.6  3.7              3.7  3.7  3.7  3.7  3.7  3.7
Drilling                                     -      -  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3              0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3
Ueeding                                      -      -  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6              0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6
Harvesting                                  -       -  2.3  2.4  2.5  2.6  2.7  2.8  2.8  2.9              3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0
K Fodder (sorghum, maize)                    -      - -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1             -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
Vegetables seed                                     °-.0  0.0  0.0 -0.0  0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0               -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 °0.0 °0.0 -0.0
Uheat seed                                          -  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.2              1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3
Tlireshing                                          -  1.9  2.0  2.1  2.2  2.3  2.4  2.6  2.7              2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8  2.8
Pulses seed                                  -      - -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1              0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1
A. foidder (berseem)                                -  0.1  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2              0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
Sugarcane seeds                                     -  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7              1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7  1.7
Iransportation                              -      -  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.8              0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8
Sub-Total Inrputs                                        19.3 20.4 21.6 22.8 23.9 25.1 26.3 27.4             28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6
Sub-lotal Operating                                 -      - 19.3 20.4 21.6 22.8 23.9 25.1 26.3 27.4            28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6
CASH FLtO  BEFORE FIIANCING                            -      - 29.0 33.1 34.4 35.8 37.2 37.7 38.2 38.7             39.2 39.2 39.4 39.6 39.9 40.1
Sources 01 Finance
lransfer From Previous Period                       -        19.3 20.4 21.6 22.8 23.9 25.1 26.3 27.4            28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6
Less Iransfer lo Next Period                        -  19.3 20.4 21.6 22.8 23.9 25.1 26.3 27.4 28.6             28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6 28.6
, ...........     .....     ...... ....     ..... ....     ..... ....     ..... ....     ..... ...     ... ... ..... ....     ..... .... ................... .......... ...
Sub-Total Sources O  Finance                          - -19.3 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2   1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2                 -  0.1  -0.1 -0.1  0.1
NEI FINAUCInG                                          - -19.3 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2  -1.2  -1.2  -1,2 -1.2               - -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
FARM FAHIIY IIEIIEFIIS AFIER FIUANCIIIr                 - 19.3 27.9 31.9 33.3 34.6 36.0 36.5 37.0 37.5              39.2 39.2 39.4 39.6 39.9 n0.1



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 6.  Farm Model III (25 acres) - Uknit IV & V Far. Model - Finmisal BIlget (in Rupees '000)
Crop year
..  .......................................... .....................................
Incremental
I to 12  13      14   15   16   17   18  19  20    21  22,to 30
Main Production
Paddy (IRRI)                                        -        -0.3 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.1 -0.1             -0.1
Seed Cotton                                         -      * 37.2 39.8 39.8 39.8 39.8 39.8 39.8 39.8             39.8
Maize                                               -        -2.1 -2.1 -2.1 -2.1  -2.0 -2.0 -2.0 -2.0            -2.0
K. fodder (sorglii.*  maize)                        -      *  0.2  0.5  0.7  1.0  1.2  1.4  1.7  1.9              2.2
Wheat                                               -         8.8  9.7 10.6 11.5 12.4 13.4 14.3 15.2             16.1
Pulses                                              -       - -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.1  -1.1  -1.1  -1.1         -1.1
Oilseed (maistard)                                  -      - -2.9 -2.8 *2.7 -2.7 -2.6 -2.6 -2.5 -2.4             -2.4
R. Fodder (berseem)                                 *         0.6   1.0  1.3  1.7  2.1  2.4  2.8  3.1             3.5
Sugarcane                                           -        -0.3  0.4  0.9   1.4  1.9  1.9  1.9  1.9             1.9
Ochards                                                       4.0  4.4  4.9  5.3  5.8  6.2  6.7  7.1              7.6
Sub-Total Main Production                              -      - 44.0 49.3 51.9 54.5 57.1 59.2 61.3 63.4             65.5
Net Value Of Production                                -         44.0 49.3 51.9 54.5 57.1 59.2 61.3 63.4            65.5
Prodck t i on Cost
Operating
Inputs
Paddy seed (IRRI)                            *      - -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1             -0.1
Nitrogen (urea)                              -      -  1.6  1.9  2.1  2.3  2.6  2.8  3.1  3.3              3.5
PlIosilhate (DAP)                            -      -  0.9  1.1  1.3  1.4  1.6  1.7  1.9  2.0              2.2
Tools                                       -          0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2              0.2
Uater charges                                *         0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4              0.4
Cultivation                                  -      -  1.5  1.6  1.6  1.7  1.7  1.8  1.9  1.9              2.0
rransp(anting                               -         -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 *0.1             -0.1
Cotton seed                                  -      -  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5              0.5
Pesticides                                   -      -  3.3  3.7  4.0  4.4  4.7  5.1  5.4  5.8              6.1
Mechanization                                       -  3.1  3.1  3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2  3.3  3.3              3.3
Drilling                                     -         0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3              0.3
Ueeding                                                0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4              0.4
llarvesting                                 -       -  2.1  2.2  2.3  2.4  2.5  2.6  2.7  2.0              2.9
K Fodder (sorghui., maize)                   -      - -0.1  -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1 -0.1  -0.1  -0.1        -0.1
Uhieat seed                               ,         -  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.1              1.2
Fhreshing                                              1.5  1.6  1.8  1.9  2.0  2.1  2.2  2.4              2.5
Pulses seed                                 -         -0.1  -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1             0.1
Vegetables seed                              -      - *0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0  0.0              0.0
R. foidder (bersee..)                        -      -  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3              0.3
Sugarcane seeds                             -       - -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 -0.2             -0.2
transportatio i-                                   - -0.0  0.1  0.1  01  0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2               0.3
Sub-lotal Inputs                                -      - 15.8 17.0 18.1 19.3 20.5 21.7 22.9 24.1             25.3
Sub-lotal Operating                                 -      - 15.8 17.0 18.1 19.3 20.5 21.7 22.9 24.1             25.3
CASII FLOU BEFORE FIIAIICIIIG                          -      - 28.3 32.4 33.0 35.2 36.7 37.6 38.5 39.4             40.3
Sources of F inalce
transfer From Previous Period                       -      - 15.  17.0 18.1 19.3 20.5 21.7 22.9 24.1            25.3
Less transfer lo Next Period                        -  15.8 17.0 18.1  19.3 20.5 21.7 22.9 24.1 25.3             25.3
Sub-Total  Sources Of Finaice                            -15.8 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2 -1.2
IIET FINANCING                                         - -15.8 - 1.2 -1.2 - 1.2 - 1.2 -1.2 - 1.2 - 1.2 -1.2
FARM FAHltY REIJEFIlS AFTER FINAIICIIIC                - -15.8 27.1 31.2 32.6 34.1 35.5 36.4 37.3 38.2              40.3
Rettirn  per r.   i-n.-   * -r                         - I    ^r



41
Project CoMpletfon Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control nd Reclamatlon Project ($ARP) VI, Cr. 754-PM
Anrex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 7. Investment Costs h Fh nobl  and Eoornoml Tewme (PRe M =lan
FY79    fQ       F       8     1 U         fl       fl       fYl8
1. Land Acquisition                  -       -   0.055  20.000   11.145   8.2J6   14.477  26.597
2. Interest                      0.432    2.246    5.398   11.666   19.603   33.371   39.819   61.065
3. Monitoring & Evaluation - LC      -                -            -             -       -        -
4. Engineering, Supervisfon
and Adninistration - LC      0.902    2.422    9.172   17.571   25.694   36.906  32.252   42.450
5. Operation & Maintenance - LC      -       -        -        -        -   0.04     0.177   0.243
6. Consultants
- LC                         0.086    5.432   0.345    1.116   0.776    1.705    1.555    4.015
- FC                             -   1.284    2.660    0.561    0.081    1.196    0.051   (3.72)
7. Equipment & Vehicles
(Net of duties & taxes)
- LC                             -   0.553   0.458    0.919    5.188   12.183   18.297  44.701
- FC                             -   1.381    0.803    1.078  88.229   47.262   43.962   15.965
8. Civil Works
- LC                         0.736    7.989   10.231   40.679   48.465  105.048  U.196  112.696
- FC                             -                              5.387                    12.017
Total Financial Cost         2.156   21.307  29.122   93.590  204.568 246.003  196.786 316.026
Total Economic Cost 1/       3.315   35.542   44.071  109.371  278.208 315.273  212.091  321.113
1/ Excluding land acquisition, Interest, duties and taxes.
Foreign exchanWe cost (FC) adjusted to 1992 term  using MNV Index:  1.623 (1979), 1.480 (1960), 1.474
(1981), 1.497 (1982), 1.532 (1983), 1.565 (1984), 1.553 (1985), 1.317 (1986), 1.199 (1967), 1.118
(1988), 1.125 (1989), 1.065 (1990), 1.043 (1991), and 1.00 (1992).
Local cost (LC) converted to economic cost using specfic conversion factor of 0.88 for civil works *nd
SCF of 0.85 for all other costs, and adjusted to 1992 term using GDP deflator: 2.229 (1979-1981),
2.038 (1982), 1.936 (1983), 1.765 (1984), 1.689 (1965), 1.635 (1986), 1.564 (1987), 1.427 (196), 1.314
(1989), 1.234 (1990), 1.091 (1991), nd 1.00 (1992).



42
Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Salinity Control nd Recl_amtion Project (SCARP) VI, Cr. 754-PAK
Annex 1: Economic Evaluation
Table 7. Invesent Cote hi Fhnolal and Eoonombo Terms (PRs Milon)
(Continued)
110     FY8      FY89    FY90    FY91    112         fs
1. Lend Acquisition                       7.643   (0.562)  (5.785)  (3.414)  3.014    2.750
2.  Interest                             75.765  104.920  100.298  128.485   (2.000)  4.653
3. Monitoring & Evaluation - LC               -        -        -   3.131         -   6.346         -
4. Engineering, Supervision
and Administration - LC              56.337  68.469   57.423   37.943   16.730   26.531   15.831
5. Operation & Maintance - LC             0.764    1.636    1.364    15.557  13.795   21.195    2.290
6. Consultants
- LC                                  0.342    2.767    5.060    4.208    2.489    4.826   (1.240)
- FC                                      -   0.592         -   5.602    1.347    0.051    2.232
7. Equipment & Vehicles
(Met of duties & taxes)
- LC                                 11.001   23.062    4.793   (3.917)  8.532  (56.648)       -
- FC                                  1.151   14.145        -            3.694    0.227        -
8. CiviL Works
- LC                                255.270  239.358  190.022  303.608  267.912  289.153   27.706
- FC                                      -        -   0.013   10.768         -   7.908        -
Total FinanciaL Cost                408.273  454.892  353.476  501.971  315.513  306.992   46.819
Total Economic Cost 1/              444.422  433.259  296.529 414.740  302.597  299.939   39.015
1/ Excluding twnd acquisition, interest, duties nd taxes.
Foreign exchange cost (FC) adjusted to 1992 term using MNJV index: 1.623 (1979), 1.40 (1980), 1.474
(1981), 1.497 (1982), 1.532 (1983), 1.565 (1984), 1.553 (1985), 1.317 (1986), 1.199 (1987), 1.118
(1988), 1.125 (1989), 1.065 (1990), 1.043 (1991), and 1.00 (19).
Local cost (LC) converted to economic cost using specific conversion factor of 0.88 for civil works nd
SCF of 0.85 for all other costs, and adjusted to 1992 term using GDP deflator: 2.229 (1979-1981),
2.038 (1982), 1.936 (1983), 1.765 (1984), 1.689 (1985), 1.635 (1986), 1.564 (1987), 1.427 (1988), 1.314
(1989), 1.234 (1990), 1.091 (1991), nd 1.00 (1m).



43
P Ct Rp
PAKISTrAN: Sainy Car ad R__lam  Projet (SCAM VI, Cr. 754-FAK
Ax 1: BEominc B8ahauoc
Table 8. Exchage Rate and Infladon Fcton
Fiscal Year      Exchag Rat           GDP Dev`lator fto            MUV Luie
R"US 1.0,              (9m  * 1-0)              (1992 - 1i)
period aveage)
1979                9.9                   2.229                    1.623
1980                9.9                   2.229                    1.480
1981                9.9                   2.229                    1.474
1982               11.847                 2.038                    1.497
1983               13.117                  1.936                   1.532
1984               14.046                  1.765                   1.S6S
1985               15.928                  1.689                   1.553
1986               16.648                  1.635                   1.317
1987               17.399                  1.564                   1.199
1988               18.003                 1.427                    1.118
1989              20.541                   1.314                   1.125
1990              21.707                   1.234                   1.065
1991              23.801                  1.091                    1.043
1992              25.083                  1.000                    1.000
"Innational Monetay Fund (IMP), Inernadonal Finncial Stdistics.
2' Paistan Economic Survey, Staidsical Supplement.
3' World Bank, Interntional Economics Departmnt, Intenaional Trade Division. Unit value index
in US$ terms of manufactures exported from th 0-5 countries (Frnco, Germny, Japan, U.K., ad
U.S.A.) weighted proportionally to the countries' expots to the developing countries.



44
Pt4sot Compidie Rlpot
PAKISTAN: Saityi Cosr and Raclsaan Prhoct  ARP) VI, Ct. 754-PMK
Annex 1: EBonomic Evalaioa
Table 9. Prices Used In FInncial and Economic Analysis
On Rupees)
Frnndai         .      . Eo        ri  ..
Unit      (consL 1"1-92)      1991-92    1998-"  2006-11
Outputs
Whet                            kg             2.80           4.73         6.09     5.52
Paddy (URR                      kg             2.00            3.09        2.83     2.54
Seed Cotton                     kg             7.13           11.82       12.47    12.15
K. Fodder (sorghum, maize)      kg             0.30           0.26         0.26     0.26
R. Fodder (berseem)             kg             0.23           0.20         0.20     0.20
Sugarcane                       kg             0.42           0.33         0.56     0.60
Oilseeds (mustard)              kg             6.80           5.78         5.78     5.78
Vegetables, Kharif              kg             2.80           2.38         2.38     2.38
Vegetables, Rabi                kg             3.00           2.55         2.55     2.55
Pulses                          kg            11.52           9.79         9.79     9.79
Orchards                      Rs/ac           6,500           5,525       5,525    5,525
Maize                           kS             4.25           3.78Y1       4.87     4.42
Inputs
Seed 2
Wheat                           kg             3.30            5.57        7.18     6.51
Paddy (IRRI)                    kg             2.50           3.86         3.54     3.18
Cotton                          kg             7.25          12.02        12.68    12.35
K. Fodder (sorghum, maize)      kg             2.55           2.17         2.17     2.17
R. Fodder (berseem)             kg           24.00           20.40        20.40    20.40
Oilseeds (mustard)              kg             6.08           5.17         5.17     5.17
Sugarcane Cuttings              kg             0.42           0.33         0.56     0.60
Pulses                          kg             6.88           5.85         5.85     5.85
Nitrogen Fertilizer              kgI            8.87           12.89       13.12    12.25
Phosphatic Fertilizer           kge            10.83            9.39       10.65    10.48
Pesticdes
Cotton                       Appl/a        617.30          524.70       524.70   524.70
Paddy (IRRU)                 AppI/ha         86.00           73.10        73.10    73.10
Wheat 2                      Appl/ha         86.00           73.10        73.10    73.10
Sugarcane                    Appl/ba         37.00           31.50        31.50    31.50
Bullock                        Pairday         45.00          38.30        38.30    38.30
Tractor                         Hour           74.00          62.90        62.90    62.90
Labor                         Work-day         35.00          24.50        24.50    24.50
Based on SAR for Fordwah Eatem Sadiqia (South) Irrigation and Drinage Project, June 1992, and dat frm WAPDA,
Punjab; using specific conversion factor of 0.7 for labor and atand conversion factor of 0.85 for all other local oost.
2v Using whea pricclec kdicount of 20%.
21 Usually demands a preinum over output price.
4   Of nutriert.
" Large farm only.



45
PC_M RLt
PAMKSTAN: S^hnky COecoI *nd R.oia ltYsD Prejog (SCAR") VI. Cr. 754-PAK
Amx 1: Eooomic Bvalwalon
Table 10. Eonomic Analysi
(R MNilon)
hixe.|               O&M           Vahe of asm      m  WRam          Iac . ..smaIr.. P :
Cod" vp_e                                                                      '. -
I (FY79)                     3.315
2                           35.542
3                           44.071
4                          109.371
5                          278.208
6                          315.273
7                          212.091
8                          321.113
9                          444.422
10                          433.259
11                          296.529                                               32.99
12                          414.740                                               52.17
13                          302.597                                               69.31
14                          299.939                                               34.54                    2342.00
15 (FY93)                    39.015                                               34.54                    2572.00
16                          221.408              62.95                            S4.54                    2533.00
17                          314.U32              62.95                            U4.54                    2563.00
iS                          235.030              62.95                            84.54                    2594.00
19                          236.544              62.95                            84.54                    25385.00
20                                               62.95                            84.54                    2575.00
1                                               62.95                            34.54                    2565.00
2                                                62.95                            34.54                    2555.00
23                                               62.f                             U4.54                    2555.00
4                                               62.95                            U3.54                    2555.00
25                                               62.95                            *4.54                    2555.00
26                                               62.95                            U4.54                    2555.00
7                                               62.ff                            *4.54                    2560.00
S                                               62.f                             U4.54                    2565.00
9                            24.95              62.95                             U.S4                    2570.00
0                            90.29              62.95                             U4.54                   2576.00
1                            60.72              62.95                            *4.54                    2576.00
2                            35.37              62.95                             34.54                   2576.00
3                                               62.95                             U4.54                   2576.00
4                                               62.9f                             34.S4                   2576.00
5S                                              62.95                             3.54                    2576.00
ERR -23%
Cost of canal remodeling required to make Unts IV and V ladepnadt: Fimuia cowats of Pta 251.6 mrilbIn Pts 1 15.8 pia 242.02
million, PRs 267.08 million and PRs 263.3 mllia covoned by applynS a  ctor of O.3 in y     16-19 (FY94 to FY97). laplaceAe
of ubewells and dinap pumping ton s mehail equlpew ia Yer 29 (PRs 24.95 million, 30 (PRS 90.29 mllio.), 31 (Pt 60.72
million) and 32 (PRs 35.37 millon) cood to eomme coat  sine a *acor of 1.00.
L Comprising po- triff (PRa 63.33 million, drinage  nto  (PMa 1.00 mN*e, eabli_a      t c   (Pta 5.00 milon), and rqpir
and regular maitenrace (PRr 4.23 milIon, ttali  PRr 74.06 miNion, eoavse to scoaic coa ust  d SCF of 0.35.
3  Updated to 1992 prices based on appraia  4r.



