IDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-216h-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR
A
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION (SCARP VI) PROJECT
November 9, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Effective February 169 1973
Rs 9.90         =   US$1.00
Rs 1000         =   US$0.1
Rs 1.0 million =    US$101,010
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FM OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN - SCARP VI SALINITY CONTROL
AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:               US$70 million
Terms:                Standard
Relending Terms:      US$8.5 million of the credit proceeds would be
lent by GOP, through SBP, to participating banks
for 7 years, including one year's grace. Partic-
ipating banks would lend to farmers for a term of
6 years, including one year's grace, at prevailing
interest rates for medium-term agricultural credit
(currently 13%). Participating banks would be
allowed a spread of 6%, and SBP a commission of 1%.
Project
Description:         (a)  Construction of about 930 fresh groundwater
tubewells and associated works for winter
season irrigation and watertable control.
(b) Construction of about 250 saline groundwater
tubewells to stabilize groundwater levels, a
drainage disposal system, pumping stations and
evaporation ponds;
(c) An electrification network to energize all
public tubewells and pumping stations on
the drainage system;
(d) Canal remodelling and, where necessary, con-
struction of new watercourses to carry in-
creased irrigation supplies;
(e) Provision of credit and technical advice to
farmers for installation of private tube-
wells in fresh groundwater areas not subject
to water logging and for land levelling;
(f) Procurement of vehicles and equipment for
project execution and subsequent operation;
communications and computer equipment for
improved operation of the irrigation works;
and equipment for an existing soils laboratory
and for land levelling;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofbcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



- ii -
(g)  Engagement of consultants to assist WAPDA in
the final design and the supervision and con-
struction of the project, to prepare operating
manuals and to organize the monitoring of project
benefits; and
(h)  Financing of consultant support for preparation
of other high priority irrigation and drainage
projects in Pakistan.
Estimated Cost:                                 (US$ Million equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
Land acquisition           2.0      -          2.0
Civil works               57.6     13.6       71.2
On-farm investments       16.4      3.8       20.2
Equipment & vehicles       4.2     11.3       15.5
Consultants                0.5      4.7        5.2
Physical contingencies    10.5      3.6       14.1
Price contingencies       32.2      9.5       41.7
Total                  123.5     46.5      170.0
Financing Plan:                                 (US$ Million equivalent)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                       38.0     32.0       70.0
UK                         7.5      7.5       15.0
KfW                        1.3      7.0        8.3
GOP                       62.5      -         62.5
Commercial Banks           8.5      -          8.5
Farmers                    5.7      -          5.7
Total                  123.5     46.5      170.0
Estimated                                  (US$ Million equivalent)
Disbursements:                  FY78  FY79   FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83   FY84
Annual       2.0  10.5  13.0  16.0   13.5  10.0   5.0
Cumulative   2.0  12.5  25.5  41.5  55.5   65.0  70.0
Technical Assistance:       (a)  Civil engineer/team leader (72 man-months);
(b)  Irrigation engineer (60 man-months);
(c)  Geohydrologist/groundwater engineer
(48 man-months);
(d)  Drainage engineers (24 man-months);
(e)  Economist (24 man-months);
(f)  Agriculturalist (24 man-months);



- iii -
(g) Other, including soil scientists, recla-
mation specialists, engineers, computer
programmers (58 man-months).
The overall cost of 310 man-months of
consultants' time for SCARP VI is esti-
mated to be US$3.2 M inclusive of overheads,
fee, supporting staff, transport and office
equipment, travel and other expenses. The
credit provides an additional US$2 M to
support preparation of other high priority
irrigation and drainage projects.
Rate of Return:             19% (economic)
Appraisal Report:           No. 1540a-PAK, November 10, 1977






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAM1IC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION (SCARP VI) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent
of US$70 million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Salinity Con-
trol and Reclamation (SCARP VI) Project. US$8.5 million would be on-lent
by the Governmei1c (GOP), through the State Bank of Pakistan, to commercial
banks for seven years at 7% p.a. for relending to farmers for on-farm in-
vestments. The Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW-Germany) and the British
Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) are also participating in the project with
a credit of US$8.3 million equivalent on IDA terms and a grant of US$15.0
million equivalent, respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:   Current Developments
and Issues" (No. 1423-PAK, dated March 15, 1977) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 21, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        The economic development of Pakistan since 1970 compares some-
what unfavorably with the record of rapid growth of output and exports of the
1960's. Starting with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh,
there followed a series of poor monsoons and floods, and consequently poor
harvests. Added to this were the twin effects of deteriorating terms of
trade and world recession. The magnitude of the problem was intensified by
the loss of momentum of the "green revolution" which had been one of the
mainstays of the favorable economic period of the late 1960's. In addition,
industrial development was discouraged by changed attitudes toward the pri-
vate sector and a series of nationalizations, beginning with the nationali-
zation of a large part of private industry in 1972. As a result, the basic
productive sectors have had an average growth of about 2% per year since
1970, although total GDP has grown by about 3% per annum because of the rapid
expansion of construction, government and other service industries.
4.        Performance in FY77 continued to be disappointing.   While record
crops of wheat, rice and sugar cane were realized in FY77, the cotton crop
was damaged by unusually heavy rains and severe flooding in August, 1976. In
addition, the political disturbances in April and May 1977 resulted in the
closing of factories and the loss of about two months of production. Overall,
preliminary indications are that there was little or no real growth of output
in FY77, and a substantial increase occurred in the budget deficit and the



- 2 -
balance of payments deficit; a substantial drawdown in reserves was necessary.
While the inflation rate was officially 9% during the year, the true amount
of inflation may have been greater.
5.        The stagnation of agricultural production during the 1970's has
been the result of many factors, including unfavorable growing conditions,
a slower rate of adoption of high-yielding varieties and adverse pricing
policies. Considerable output increases are possible in the medium term from
the further extension of the "green revolution" technology, specifically
through increased use of fertilizer and pesticides, improved seeds and further
development of the groundwater potential. Sustainable growth in the longer
term will require more fundamental change in on-farm practices regarding land
and water management, particularly in terms of increasing the efficiency of
the water course distribution systems. Central to improved farmer techniques
is an upgraded, more effective extension service, with greater emphasis on
reaching the small farmer, and with better linkages to an effective research
program. In order to increase the basic productivity of the land, a major
effort needs to be made to increase investments in projects designed to reverse
waterlogging and salinity. The poor record in agriculture should not obscure
some genuine progress in certain areas. Fertilizer use has risen by 60% in
the past two years, and wheat production is nearing the point of self-
sufficiency. Exports of minor agricultural crops to the Middle East are
increasing. In the case of cotton, however, production has declined because
of adverse weather, insect attacks, and an inadequate program of pest control,
and this has tended to depress the overall results for the agricultural
sector.
6.        After agriculture, which accounts for about 32% of GDP, manufacturing
is the second largest sector of the economy, contributing about 16% of GDP and
50% to 60% of total exports. Since 1973, the major change in the industrial
sector has been the expansion of public sector involvement, from about 10%
to about 25% of industrial assets. In January 1972, the Government took over
31 private companies in 10 basic industrial categories. This was followed by
the takeover of the vegetable ghee industry, the cotton and rice export trade,
commercial banks, shipping, life insurance and gas and oil distribution. In
July 1976 the Government nationalized the larger units in rice and flour mill-
ing, as well as all of the cotton gins. These actions have adversely affected
the climate for private investment, particularly in the industrial sector.
Rice and flour mills and some cotton gins have recently been returned to their
former owners.
7.        While industrial growth averaged close to 10% per annum during the
1960's, since 1970 it has been only about 2% per annum. The decline in the
growth rate is a result of a number of factors including lower private
investment during the late 1960's and early 1970's and the problems with agri-
cultural production which reduced the availability of some raw materials.
Since FY74, the international recession has had a major impact by reducing
demand for Pakistan's exports, particularly textiles. Output of both cotton
yarn and cloth is estimated to have been lower in FY76 than in FY74. The
textile industry has suffered from problems of low efficiency and a lack of
competitiveness in foreign markets. Manufacturing growth generally has been



- 3 -
affected by the poor performance of public sector enterprises. Difficulties
in the public sector include inadequate managerial autonomy, pricing policy,
and problems of financial accounting and control.
8.        Exports have remained depressed for the past few years, in part
because of the international recession, while imports have increased rapidly.
Import prices increased 45% in FY74 and 48% in FY75, but in FY74 the rise was
offset by increases in major export prices, particularly of cotton and rice.
In FY75 the full effect of earlier petroleum price increases, combined with
falling export prices for most products, produced a 37% decline in the terms
of trade, although a slight improvement is estimated to have taken place
in FY76. As a consequence of these developments, the deficit on the current
account of the balance of payments increased from $130 million in FY73, an
exceptionally good year, to $950 million in FY76. Preliminary figures in-
dicate that it rose further to US$1.1 billion in FY77. These large deficits
have been financed by expanded borrowings from foreign sources. Domestic
resource mobilization, on the other hand, has declined markedly, with the
overall savings rate falling from about 10% of GDP in FY73 to 4% in FY75, and
public savings turning negative. Although there was some improvement during
the past two years, overall savings amounted to only 7%, and public savings
to 2%, of GDP in FY77. The decline in private savings can be traced to lower
corporate profits as well as the lag of interest rates behind the rate of
inflation. Annual price increases averaged over 20% during 1973-75 but
bank deposit interest rates were only 7-8%. While the rate of inflation has
been brought down to around 9% during the past two years, deposit rates have
been around 8.5-9.5%. Real interest rates have therefore been barely positive.
9.        In the past few years the contribution of the public sector to
domestic savings has been unsatisfactory. Recently, a number of steps have
been taken to improve public sector resource mobilization, including substan-
tially higher prices of electric power, cement, petroleum products, railway
and air fares, and import tariffs. Steps have also been taken to simplify
the income tax and improve its enforcement. Subsidies of various types which
amounted to Rs 3 billion in FY75, or about 15% of current government expendi-
tures, are estimated to have been reduced to Rs 0.6 billion in FY77. These
revenue efforts, together with substantially increased inflows of capital,
have not been sufficient, however, to match the Government's increased spend-
ing. In FY77 the overall budget deficit was Rs 5.6 billion.
10.       Since FY72, the Government has attempted to increase output through
a program of investments in infrastructure, industry and the social sectors.
A large number of projects in heavy industries, chemicals and fertilizers
have been started, as well as substantial new investments in power and trans-
port. While the rate of investment has increased, the long lead times asso-
ciated with these projects have reduced their impact on present production
levels. Despite stagnant domestic output, low savings, and deteriorating
terms of trade, the Government was able to continue, and even accelerate,
this investment program because of the generous assistance received from
abroad, particularly from the OPEC countries. However, the balance of pay-
ments deficits in recent years have exceeded by a substantial margin the



- 4 -
amount of external assistance available on suitably concessionary terms. It
is essential that the Government bring investment more closely into line with
domestic savings and foreign assistance available on favorable terms. In the
1978 Annual Development Plan a start has been made towards limiting the growth
in the public investment level. In reviewing the investment program, emphasis
should be given to providing resources for agriculture and other areas, where
it seems possible to obtain a substantial and rapid increase in production
and exports. At the same time, projects of doubtful economic justification
need to be re-examined.
11.       By the end of FY77 the total debt outstanding, excluding undisbursed
amounts, was about $6.6 billion. Debt relief given by the Consortium countries
reduced debt service payments in FY77 to a level equivalent to only 15% of
export earnings and workers' remittances. Rising foreign exchange remittances
from Pakistan nationals working abroad (estimated at about US$600 million in
FY77) are expected to continue to temper the increase in the debt service ratio.
Nonetheless, the debt service ratio is expected to climb to about 18% by FY78
and somewhat higher thereafter, since the end of debt relief arrangements will
coincide with a sharp increase in repayments owed to the OPEC countries. With
this prospect, Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its
ability to borrow to meet its future requirements. It clearly cannot afford
to continue to borrow heavily on commercial terms and therefore will have to
tailor its plans and programs to the availability of external finance on suit-
able terms. For this reason the major part of Bank Group lending to Pakistan
consists of IDA credits. Rough estimates suggest that, within an appropriate
framework of policies and programs, Pakistan should be able to progress in
improving the standard of living of its people, while containing its debt
service ratio to 20%. The achievement of this objective will, however, require
decisive action by the Government to deal with the underlying causes of the
country's poor economic performance in recent years. Appropriate policies need
to be framed to deal with a broad range of economic issues, including resource
mobilization, promotion of exports and disappointing agricultural and manufac-
turing performance. At the same time, action is needed to strengthen public
sector institutions. The capacity of public agencies to implement government
policy and operate commercial enterprises has, in recent years, failed to keep
pace with the large increase in their responsibilities.
12.       Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY76 was about
18% of its external public indebtedness; by 1980 this ratio is likely to fall
to about 11%. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service (after taking
account of the debt relief which Pakistan receives from other creditors) is
now about 17%, but is expected to decrease to about 9% in 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
13.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.6 billion. During its long



association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all sec-
tors of the economy. Through FY77, 41% of total commitments were for public
services, 24% for agriculture, 33% for industry, of which 10% was for indus-
trial imports, and 2% for education. Lending for public services has amounted
to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for railways,
electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommunications and
water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture was for Indus
Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most projects for
which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now going ahead
satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are that the rates
charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with inflation and,
hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of August 31, 1977, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
14.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.    One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries, such as PICIC, which
finances the medium and large-scale private sector, the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) for the small and medium scale industrial secLDr,
with possible participation by commercial banks, and the National Development
Finance Corporation (NDFC) for industries in the public sector. The most
important part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the
Government's program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by control-
ling salinity and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and ground-
water. The Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant
for improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
15.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits. In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
16.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have been working
with municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,



- 6 -
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of con-
sultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of this plan, a project was
proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the city.
This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning
in Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need
is for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second
Lahore water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for
the financing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agri-
culture and other projects with a low foreign exchange component justifies
the financing of some local expenditures in specific cases, such as the pro-
posed project.
17.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Appraisal missions have completed
field reviews of an agricultural extension and development project in the
Punjab, a third power project and a petroleum development project. Prepara-
tory work is proceeding on another irrigation and drainage project in the
Northwest Frontier Province, a fourth agricultural credit project, a third
highways project and a Karachi bulk water supply project.    A further credit
to help finance the Tarbela Project is under consideration.
18.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.9 million was by way of loans and US$7.3
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE SCARP PROGRAM IN PAKISTAN
19.       As already indicated, agriculture remains the mainstay of the
economy.  It accounts for roughly one-third of GDP, employs about 60% of
the labor force and, directly or indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of
Pakistan's exports (princiDally rice and cotton). Irrigated agriculture
dominates the sector, accounting for some 90% of total farm output. A sub-
stantial growth of agricultural output occurred in the late 1960's, arising
from a rapid increase in the use of improved wheat and rice varieties and
fertilizer, along with private tubewell development. Much slower growth
followed in the first half of the 1970's, as a combined result of poor weather,
a lack of new technological breakthroughs, and pricing policies that discrimi-
nated against the farmer and favored the urban consumer. The delay in the
availability of water from Tarbela Dam also affected output.
20.       In addition to the benefits of the water available from the Tarbela
Dam since 1976, there is a large potential for raising production through
increases in fertilizer application rates, use of more pesticides and better
seed varieties, further expansion of groundwater use by additional tubewell



- 7 -
development, particularly in the private sector, and better enforcement of
regulations concerning water use and watercourse maintenance. The exploita-
tion of this potential will require that pricing policies are such that
farmers have adequate incentives, that inputs and credit are available in
adequate quantities and in timely fashion and that agricultural agencies are
strengthened with respect to their finances, their personnel and their
organization.
21.       Over the long term, Pakistan's ability to sustain faster growth in
agricultural production than in population depends essentially on fundamental
improvements in the management of land and water resources. This will require
substantial investments and improvements in agricultural institutions. As
such measures take time to become effective, the necessary changes have to
be initiated now. There is a general need to improve the efficiency of the
canal system and the use of water by the farmers. Up to 40-50% of canal
water is lost before reaching the farm turnouts owing to the inefficiencies
of the system and 20-30% of the remainder is lost due to poor water manage-
ment practices on the farm. Institutional and financial arrangements need
to be modified to insure proper canal and watercourse maintenance and im-
provement. In addition, existing laws and regulations on water management
require stricter enforcement.
22.       Small farmers having less than 7.5 acres constitute over 40% of
the farmers in Pakistan - although they account for only 12% of the total
farm area. Steps need to be taken to insure that the long term program in
agriculture includes not only measures to augment production, but increases
the productivity of these smaller cultivators. Improvements in research and
extension are vital to generating appropriate technological improvements,
and to spreading knowledge to the smallholder.
23.       Without improvements in land and water management, Pakistan faces
the danger of further loss of arable land due to waterlogging and salinity.
The technology for reducing waterlogging and salinity is well known, but
investment in projects for this purpose has been lagging. This trend must
be reversed to prevent further loss of cropping potentials. The return on
investments in land and drainage improvement will be low, however, unless
supporting services are substantial-ly improved. These include agricultural
research, extension services, the availability of agricultural credit for
inputs and other services designed to improve the productivity of the farmer.
24.       A broadened agriculture sector strategy for Pakistan, directed at
dealing with the various problems outlined above, was identified and dis-
cussed in detail in the Special Agriculture Sector Review, distributed to
the Executive Directors in March 1976. 1/ A number of projects in support
of this strategy has already been initiated or are under active consider-
ation. These include the Seeds Project and the Khairpur Tile Drainage and
Irrigated Farming Development Project, approved by the Executive Directors
1/   Report No. 922a-PAK, "Pakistan:   Special Agriculture Sector Review" (in
five volumes).



-8 -
in FY76; and the Punjab Livestock Project and the Third Education Project
(which includes an important component for agricultural training), approved
by the Executive Directors in FY77.
25.       Following on the Sector Review, and in order to assist Govern-
ment further in carrying out the new strategy for agricultural development,
the Bank identified a project portfolio which includes projects in the fields
of agricultural extension and research; agricultural credit; irrigation, drain-
age and salinity control; foodgrain storage; and integrated development of
cotton, rice, forestry, sugar and livestock. This portfolio has been dis-
cussed with and agreed in principle by the Government. Funds for project
preparation are being provided through both the proposed Hazara Forestry
Pre-Investment Project and the SCARP-VI Project. In addition, the UNDP has
indicated its willingness to support - with the Bank as Executing Agency -
the strengthening of project preparation capacity in the Federal Ministry
and Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
The SCARP Program
26.       Beginning in the 1870's, barrages were constructed on the Indus
tributaries in the Punjab enabling diversion of water throughout the year.
During the past decade, with the construction of Mlangla Dam on the Jhelum and
Tarbela Dam on the Indus, a substantial storage capacity (nearly 15 million
acre feet) has been added to the system. The Basin is now irrigated by a
canal system with a culturable commanded area (CCA) of about 30 million acres--
one of the largest in the world.
27.       The construction of the barrages and canals was not accompanied by
the installation of adequate drainage systems, and during the past century
waterlogging and salinity have become a major problem in large areas. Sub-
surface drainage was not installed on a significant scale until the early
1960's and, therefore, the water table has risen in many areas to levels at
which it interferes with crop growth. Under the GOP's Salinity Control and
Reclamation Projects (SCARPs), the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
has installed 8,000 tubewells in over 3 million acres and individual farmers
have installed over 150,000 tubewells which contribute in varying degrees to
controlling the water table. In saline groundwater areas, however, where
the wells must discharge into disposal drains, the benefits of this method
of groundwater control are limited unless additional canal water is pro-
vided for reclamation of the saline soils. Similarly, in fresh groundwater
areas where the water table is high, provision must be made for the removal
of exress water as the water table is lowered. In such areas, little or no
priva-e well development has taken place, for obvious reasons.
28.       The Bank Group first provided assistance for the SCARP program in
1962 wi:h an $18 million cred-it for the Khairpur Groundwater and Salinity
Control Project. This project included installation of nearly 600 tubewells
spaced over 355,000 acres and the construction of a surface drain disposal
system, including pumping stations. Project works were completed in 1970
and since then yields and cropped area have exceeded expectations at the time
of appraisal - by as much as 65% to 90% in the case of production of the major
- i   (wheat, cotton and sorghum).   A portion of the SCARP-Khairpur area in



- 9 -
northern Sind is not suitable for tubewell drainage. This 40,000-acre area
was selected by WAPDA as a prototype to assess the construction techniques,
installation and operating costs and effectiveness of tile drainage. A Proj-
ect (Khairpur-II) was subsequently prepared for which the Association last
year approved a credit of US$14 million.
29.       To ensure effective use of available irrigation supplies, the
Indus Basin Special Study (ISS), carried out by the Bank between 1964 and
1966, recommended an Action Program of projects for implementation during
the period 1967-75, including the Khairpur Tile Drainage Project. The ISS
Action Program was geared to effective distribution and use of available
irrigation water, soil reclamation and control of water logging and salinity
through public and private groundwater development and surface drainage
schemes, as well as improved and intensified agricultural supporting services.
Action Program proposals were modified by Bank missions in 1968 and 1970 and
are again being revised, taking account of changing circumstances. The Bank
is currently Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed study and planning project
which will lead to preparation of a Revised Action Program and National
Investment Schedule for Irrigated Farming Development and Land Reclamation
in the Indus Basin. The Revised Action Program is due for completion late
next year.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The proposed SCARP VI project was identified in the Bank's Indus
Special Study Report of 1967. A feasibility report on the project was pre-
pared by consultants for WAPDA in 1968 and updated in 1975. The project, to
be implemented during FY78-83, was appraised in November 1976. The Appraisal
Report (No. 1540a-PAK) on the project is being distributed separately. At
negotiations, which took place in Washington during September 1977, the
Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Aftab Ahmad Khan, Secretary of the
Economic Affairs Division of the GOP Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Affairs.
Project Area
31.       Most of the SCARP VI area lies in Rahimyar Khan District at the ex-
treme southern end of the Province, just east of the Indus River and below
the Panjnad Barrage. It covers 1.7 million acres, of which 1.47 million are
canal commanded. The principal cash crops of the area are cotton, wheat and
sugarcane. Other important crops are fodder, rice, millets, pulses and oil-
seeds. Cotton ginning, oilseed processing and flour milling are the major
agro-industries of the region. Road and rail communications to and within the
project area are adequate. The main Karachi-Lahore rail line and the Karachi-
Peshawar national highway traverse the SCARP VI area. Agricultural commodities
move to primary and secondary markets by roads, and regional exports chiefly
by rail.



- 10 -
32.       The distribution of farms by size within the project area is shown
below:
Farm Size          % of Total         % of Total
(ac)              Farms               Area
0   -   2.5             6                 1
2.5 -   7.5            21                 7
7.5 -  12.5            30                20
12.5 -  25              30                32
25   -  50              10                20
over 50                       3                20
Present legislation limits an individual's land holdings to 150 acres of
irrigated land. However, by registering land in the names of several family
members some farmers continue to control substantially larger blocks of land.
Farms on which the operator owns all or part of the land constitute 55% of all
farms. About 45% of the project area is owner-operated; the balance is farmed
by tenants. In general, landowners pay all taxes and watercharges, while the
owner and tenant share equally in the cost of seasonal inputs and in the
distribution of the crop.
33.       In many parts of the SCARP VI area the high water table interferes
with profitable agriculture. Fresh water tubewell development, while substan-
tial, lags behind that of the rest of the Punjab and some soils have become
saline as a result of under-irrigation by farmers. The Bank's Indus Special
Study (ISS) Report of 1967 established that remedial action would be necessary
to lower the water table, dispose of saline effluent and provide more irriga-
tion water to leach the salt-affected soils and develop the full production
potential of the area. The SCARP VI project plan was therefore prepared.
Subsequently, the Bank's Indus Basin review mission in 1975 assigned high
priority to the project, which was also strongly endorsed in the Pakistan
Planning Commission's 1973 "Proposals for an Accelerated Program of Water-
logging and Salinity Control."
34.       The SCARP VI area has been divided into five units for development
purposes. Unit I (200,000 acres) is currently being developed by WAPDA and is
not included in the project. Units II and III (730,000 acres combined), as
well as Unit I, are underlain with fresh groundwater and are canal-irrigated
only during the kharif (summer) season. In Unit III the groundwater is at a
safe depth, but in much of Unit II it has risen to within 5 feet of the
surface and waterlogging is a serious constraint to the expansion of agri-
cultural production. Units IV and V (540,000 acres) are underlain by saline
groundwater and are perennially irrigated.



Project Description
35.       The proposed project works and supporting services would:
(a) lower and control the groundwater table at levels which would
not impede agricultural development and would prevent soil
salinization;
(b) provide increased surface water deliveries, mainly in the
kharif (summer) season when surplus flow is available in
the rivers, to give adequate supplies for good irrigation
management practices and to raise cropping intensity;
(c) provide safe disposal of saline groundwater;
(d) provide additional rabi (winter) season irrigation to non-
perennial areas by developing fresh groundwater; and
(e) level and reclaim land which is saline and uncultivated.
36.       The project would have the following major components:
(a) Canal remodeling throughout the project area, including the
construction of new watercourses to provide additional water
in the kharif season, initially for reclamation of saline
land by leaching and later to meet the irrigation require-
ments associated with the expected higher cropping intensities.
(b) Construction in Unit II of (i) about 135 public tubewells of
three cusec capacity and associated works to enable the water
which is surplus to the area - approximately 965,000 acre-feet
per annum - to be discharged into canals for use downstream;
and (ii) about 800 other public tubewells of 2-3 cusec capacity,
with a total capacity of about 2,000 cusecs, for rabi season
irrigation and conjunctive use with canals in the kharif season.
Both sets of wells would contribute to lowering and controlling
the water table.
(c) Provision in Unit III of credit and technical advice to farmers
for the installation of private tubewells for rabi season
irrigation.
(d) Construction in Unit V of a drainage system involving 250 pub-
lic tubewells of 3 cusec capacity covering 300,000 acres and
a drainage disposal system of about 560 miles of drains to carry
the saline effluent to five evaporation ponds in the Cholistan
desert. (Unit IV is unlikely to require drainage, since the
groundwater there is at a safe depth.)



- 12 -
(e) Electrification of all public tubewells and five drainage
pumping stations in Units II and V, requiring erection of
approximately 1,120 miles of lines and six grid stations.
(f) Provision of medium--term agricultural credit to farmers
for levelling approximately 100,000 acres of saline land.
Farmers would provide 25% of the cost of these works from
their own funds and obtain credit for the balance from par-
ticipating commercial banks.
(g) Engagement of consultants to assist WAPDA in the final
design of the project, to prepare procurement and con-
tract documents, to supervise construction, to prepare
operating manuals and to develop a computer model to
optimize operation of the entire Panjnad Barrage irri-
gation system. Consultants would also be engaged to
assist WAPDA with the preparation of other high-priority
irrigation and drainage projects in Pakistan.
(h) Procurement of equipment and vehicles for the execution
of the project, and for its subsequent operation and
management. Equipment would include a minicomputer which
would program the operation of the whole canal system, addi-
tional items for the soils laboratory at Bahawalpur and survey
instruments for use by agricultural engineers in the planning
and execution of land levelling.
(i) A pilot project to develop the techniques of chemical land
reclamation with gypsum, which would also eventually include
a plan to make gypsum more cheaply and readily available
throughout the country.
37.       As indicated above, fresh groundwater development in Unit II would
be by public tubewells and in Unit III by private tubewells. This difference
in approach is due to the different groundwater situations in the two areas.
In Unit II, the pumping requirements to control the watertable would exceed
irrigation demands and, therefore, private wells alone could not be expected
to provide adequate watertable control. In Unit III, on the other hand,
waterlogging is not a problem and public sector development of the groundwater
is, therefore, unnecessary. Private tubewell development in Unit III offers
the advantage of substantial savings in investment costs, in terms of both
total cost and cost to the Governxment's budget, and an opportunity to mobilize
private resources (more than 2,000 private wells are already functioning in
the Unit).
38.       Strengthening of the agricultural extension service in the SCARP VI
area, while important for the success of the project, is not provided under
the proposed credit, since the Association is appraising a separate extension
and agriculture development project in the Punjab which would include the
project area and would meet project requirements in a timely fashion. The
project will result in a substantial increase in grain storage requirements.
Storage facilities are presently inadequate throughout Pakistan, including



- 13 -
the project area. An appropriate solution must be found within a countrywide
context which will be the subject of GOP study, with Canadian (CIDA) support,
over the next 18 months (DCA Section 3.05).
Costs and Financing
39.       Total project costs, including physical contingency of 12% and
price contingency of 35%, are estimated to be about US$170 million equiv-
alent (including duties and taxes of US$3.6 M), of which the foreign exchange
component is about US$46.5 million or 27% of the total. Tubewell costs are
based on recent experience in the project area, while the cost of canal
remodelling, excavation of drains and the construction of evaporation ponds
are based on costs of similar work recently carried out in Pakistan. Expected
expenditures for major project components are (in US dollar equivalents):
canal remodelling, US$18.2 million; fresh groundwater tubewells and disposal
works, US$12.7 million; saline tubewells and drainage works, US$22.8 million;
electrification works, US$17.5 million; on-farm investments, US$20.2 million;
equipment and vehicles, US$15.5 million; and consultants US$5.2 million.
40.       The proposed IDA credit of US$70 million, together with a KfW credit
of DM 20 million (US$8.3 million equivalent) and a UK grant of US$15 million
equivalent, would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the project plus
about 40% of the local costs. Other funds required for the project would be
provided by GOP (US$62.5 million equivalent), commercial banks (US$8.5 mil-
lion equivalent) and from farmers' own resources (US$5.7 million equivalent).
The IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOP, which would provide $8.5
million equivalent as a loan to the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) for lending
to participating commercial banks in support of loans to farmers.
Procurement and Disbursements
41.       US$45 million of the credit is allocated for civil works.    Of this
amount, it is expected that US$18.7 million would be disbursed against public
tubewell construction and a further US$12.8 million against construction of
the electrification works. Contracts for these items would be let through
international competitive bidding, in which Pakistani firms would enjoy
a 7-1/2% preference. The remaining US$13.5 million within the civil works
component of the credit would be for canal remodelling. This work will be
scattered over a wide area and must be undertaken in close coordination with
the Punjab Irrigation Department and scheduled in relation to the agricultural
seasons and periods of canal closure; it would not be suitable for ICB and
will be carried out under contracts concluded after local competitive bidding
(LCB), following procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
42.       Small, off-the-shelf items which have a unit cost of less than
US$15,000 and amount to not more than US$300,000 in total would be purchased
in accordance with normal GOP procurement procedures which are satisfactory to
the Association. On-farm investments for which credit will be made available
to farmers under the project will be executed by the farmers themselves or by
private contractors of the farmers' own choosing. There are sufficient
contractors in the area to assure adequate competition.



- 14 -
43.       Disbursements from the proposed Credit would be made on a paralled
basis with the co-financiers as follows: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported equipment, materials and spare parts, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured goods and 50% of local
expenditures for off the shelf goods procured locally; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for canal remodeling, Unit V tube-
wells, drainage and electrification works; (c) 50% of loans disbursed to
farmers for tubewell construction and land levelling; and (d) 100% of the
cost of consultants services. Consultants would be selected according to
the Bank's guidelines.
44.       The KfW credit would finance the foreign exchange cost of imported
and domestically manufactured electrical components and equipment. These
would be procured through ICB in accordance with KfW procedures. The UK grant
would cover the foreign exchange cost of canal remodelling and other equipment
and drainage works on a tied basis, plus about 30% of the local costs of the
drainage facilities.
Project Implementation
45.       As in all SCARP projects, WAPDA would be responsible for canal
remodelling, installation and electrification of public tubewells and con-
struction of drains, pumping stations and evaporation ponds. These works
would be carried out through a Project Construction Unit which would be headed
by a Project Director reporting to the General Manager (GM) of WAPDA (NZ),
based in Lahore, and which would be established at District headquarters in
Rahimyar Khan. The GM (NZ) would have overall responsibility for the final
design and execution of the civil works.
46.       WAPDA would appoint consultants to help with the final design of
the project as well as with the preparation of tender documents and super-
vision of construction. The consulting group, which would also prepare
operating manuals for project works, would comprise specialists in irrigation,
drainage, reclamation, power, geohydrology, tubewell-development and related
skills, and would provide approximately 310 man-months of services. Appoint-
ment of consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
47.       In accordance with the Government's normal practice, WAPDA would be
responsible for operation of the project works for at least one year after
completion of the project. Thereafter, if all components are performing
satisfactorily, responsibility would be transferred to the Punjab Department
of Irrigation for operation and maintenance.
48.       Private tubewells in Unit III would be installed by private contrac-
tors, while land levelling would be carried out either by private contractors
or the Agricultural Engineering Section of the Punjab Department of Agricul-
ture, as the farmers may choose. For these activities, farmers would provide
no less than 25% of the investment cost and could obtain medium-term (6-year)
credit for the balance at the prevailing interest rate (currently 13% per
annum) from the local commercial banks, all five of which have a number of



- 15 -
branches in the project area. These loans could be discounted by the commer-
cial banks with the State Bank. Farmers would be eligible for GOP grants of
up to Rs 8,000 to assist them in sinking tubewells. Farmers themselves would
spread the gypsum, which would be provided under the project, for soil reclam-
ation on about 40,000 acres.
49.       To assess project benefits, WAPDA's Central Monitoring Organization
(CMO) will collect data on cropping patterns, yields, production, private
tubewell development and fertilizer consumption in the project area. CMO will
conduct a benchmark survey before the commencement of project implementation
and regularly thereafter to record changes in crop production brought about by
the project.
50.       To coordinate the efforts of the several agencies involved    with
the project, a Project Steering Committee (PSC) and a Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) would be established at the Provincial and Divisional levels,
respectively. The PSC would be chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary
(Planning and Development) of the GOPunjab and would include the Provincial
Secretaries of Agriculture and of Irrigation, Commissioner of Bahawalpur
Division and WAPDA's GM (NZ) and GM (Power Wing), as well as the Project
Director. The PCC would be chaired by the Commissioner of Bahawalpur, with
the Project Director as Vice Chairman; WAPDA, the Departments of Agriculture
and Irrigation, the participating commercial banks and project area farmers
would be represented on it. Establishment of both the PSC and PCC would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
51.       The total implementation period of the project is expected to be
six years. The first year would be devoted mainly to final design, procure-
ment of equipment and vehicles and preparation of tender documents. The
major physical works would start in the second year and be completed by the
end of the sixth year. Schedules for project implementation and budget
requirements would be prepared annually by all agencies involved. The
Association would have the opportunity to review the implementation schedules
and annual budget estimates well in advance of the start of the year to which
they apply (WAPDA Project Agreement Section 2.03).
Water Charges
52.       Water charges are a matter of provincial responsibility in
Pakistan and each Province sets its own rates and procedures for collection.
Throughout the country, however, water revenues fall well short of public
expenditures on even the operation and maintenance (O&M) cost of the irri-
gation system. In the Punjab such revenues constitute about 30% of Provincial
tax revenues, while expenditures for the O&M of irrigation and drainage
facilities are equivalent to 40% of Provincial revenues.
53.       Farm budget analyses and estimates of the value of water to farmers
indicate that substantially increased taxation could be borne by project bene-
ficiaries. However, the appropriate level and structure of water charges
cannot be treated satisfactorily on a project specific basis. Any examination
of water charges or proposals for changing them must take into account other
agricultural taxes, including domestic excises and export taxes on cotton,



- 16 -
sugar and rice, land taxes and the agricultural income tax. In addition,
by keeping the prices of many crops low, the government compels a substan-
tial transfer from farmers to the (chiefly urban) consumers. In the project
area, export taxes on the incremental output of cotton alone are expected to
yield Rs 74 million annually - more than sufficient to cover project O&M
costs.
54.       With a view toward introducing revisions to the structure and level
of agricultural pricing and taxation, including water charges, in Punjab by
July 1, 1980, GOP have agreed to conduct a review, in accordance with terms
of reference agreed with the Association, of the structure and level of
agricultural pricing and taxation, with particular reference to water charges.
In this study major emphasis will be placed on (a) the costs of effective O&M
of the Provincial irrigation and drainage system and the extent to which these
should be met by irrigation water users; (b) the extent to which Government
should capture through water charges and other taxes a portion of the net
benefits generated by investments in irrigation; and (c) the appropriateness
of the current level and structure of agricultural pricing and taxation and
the proper position of water charges in this package. Without pre-judging the
results of this review, it is evident that a general increase in water charges
may be in order throughout the Punjab, and that specific increases will be
desirable in the SCARP-VI area upon completion of the project works. It has
therefore been agreed that water charges in Punjab will be raised so that by
1990, either (i) total water revenue collected throughout Punjab would cover
annual O&M costs of irrigation and drainage facilities within the Province and
a reasonable portion of the investment cost of such facilities, or (ii) water
charges within the SCARP VI area would be sufficient to cover the O&M costs
and a reasonable portion of the capital costs of the irrigation and drainage
facilities in the project area. In addition, upon completion of the Project,
charges in the SCARP VI area will be increased to the highest permissible
level under prevailing regulations. These increases will take place in three
steps, on July 1, 1980, 1985 and 1990, unless, in the light of the conclusions
of the study, GOP, Punjab and the Association agree otherwise with respect to
either the amount or timing of the increases (Punjab Project Agreement,
Section 3.02).
Project Benefits and Risks
55.       The land resources in the SCARP VI area are underutilized due to
deteriorating soil conditions and inadequate irrigation supplies. The proj-
ect would help to relieve these problems and would consequently contribute
to a substantial increase in agricultural production, employment and incomes.
Project works would permit higher cropping intensities to be achieved, pri-
marily in cotton, wheat, sugarcane and fruit. Overall cropping intensities
are expected to rise in Units II and III from 99% and 101% to 135% and 126%,
respectively, and in Units IV and V from 99% and 107% to 125% and 128%. In
the non-perennial areas (Units II and III), rabi crops would increase in both
absolute and relative importance due to the expected increase in winter water
supplies. The estimated incremental annual production at full project develop-
ment would amount to 230,000 tons of foodgrains, 87,000 tons of seed cotton
and 13,000 tons of oilseeds. After deducting the increased costs of production
and inputs, the net contribution to the economy would be in the order of Rs 460



- 17 -
million (US$46 million equivalent) per year. Apart from grain storage facil-
ities, the market and transport network for the crops produced in the area are
reliable and well developed and adequate local facilities exist to process the
expected increase in cotton and sugarcane production.
56.       Estimated annual net farm incomes in the project area are currently
about Rs 2,900 on 5-acre farms; Rs 7,000 on 12.5-acre farms; and Rs 12,000 on
25-acre farms. Most sharecropped farms are in the 7.5-12.5-acre class and the
cash incomes of these are somewhat less than half that for owner-operated
farms. 0ff-farm employment in agriculture contributes one-third of total
income for 5-acre farms; non-agricultural employment is also believed to make
a significant contribution to the incomes of the small farmers. Without the
project, overall farm incomes are projected to rise very slowly, and with
growth of population, the demand for hired labor would probably fall in
relation to supply, so that per capita income from this source would decline
to the detriment of the smaller farms. With the project, total farm incomes
are expected to double; for small cultivators, the increases would be due to
both larger production and enhanced off-farm employment opportunities.
57.       The rate of return of the project to the economy is estimated at
19%. This reflects only the direct effects of the project with conservative
estimates of yield increases and with all material inputs and outputs valued
at world prices and labor at an estimated average opportunity cost of Rs 7.80
per man-day. With improved farm practices and better use of farm inputs, as
anticipated under the proposed agricultural extension project, benefits shotild
be considerably higher. The rate of return is sensitive to delays in project
completion and cost increases -- a delay of two years in the realization of
benefits or cost increases of 20% would lower the rate of return by 3-4%. The
project would have a favorable environmental effect in the project area by
reducing waterlogging and increasing the supply of clean water. The project
is not subject to any special risks other than those normally attendant upon
irrigation and drainage projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Province of Punjab and the Association and between WAPDA and the Association,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement) are that:
(a) the grant from the United Kingdom and the credit from the
Federal Republic of Germany had become effective either
simultaneously with or prior to the IDA credit;



- 18 -
(b) consultants satisfactory to the Association had been appointed
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA; and
(c) the Project Coordination Committee and the Project Steering
Committee had been established.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: J. Burke Knapp
November 9, 1977
Attachments



- 19 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page 1 of    4
PAKISTAN            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
___-___________                                   PAKISTAN                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL                                   1960            MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     '4                           1960       1970   ES1IMATE           INDIA          THAILAND       TURKEY
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      6                                       100.0       210.0       500.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            45.3       59.8       71.0 /a           547.6        36.3        35.6
POPULATION DENSITY                                  4            0 /
PER SQUARE KM.                        56.0       74.0      89.    a           167.0        71.0        46.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        198.0     246.0      292.0 /a            308.0       263.0        65.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          49.2       47.6      47.4                41.0        44.3        40.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           263 /b 20.1          16.5                19.0        13.7        14.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        142.0 /ab124.3       113.0                            80.0       153.0/1a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        42.1      47.4       49.8                47.2        55.5        54.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        3.7       3.6                 2.9         3.2         2.6/b,c
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.3        2.9       3.0                 2.3         3.1         2.5
URBAN                                  5.0        4.0       3.9                 3.2         4.9         4.9/d
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           22.5       24.8       26.0               19.8        15.0        36.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42.0 /a,c 43.4                           41.5        45.1        41.7
15 TO 64 fEARS                        52 0.a c dg2.7                           55.3        51.8        54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     6. :,     c,d 3.9       *-                3.1         3.1         4.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9 /aC    0.9                           0.8         0.9         0.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7 /a,e   1.6 /a      *.                1.1 /a      1.1 /a      1.1 /e
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         .-        ..             14585.0       470.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                 ..        10.0         8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         13000.0   18100.0    20400.0            218000.0     16700.01/b  14500.0/f
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          59.0       57.0      54.8                69.0        79.0        67.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..        2.0                 ..                     4 0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            20.3 1/f   17.8      17.3                25.0 /b     22. 0/C     32.8/h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             45.3 /f   41.8       41.5                53.1 7F     51:1.       60.6W
LOWEST  20X OF HQUSEHOLDS              6.4T7     8.0        8.4                 4.7 7T      5.6/c       2.97T
LOWEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.57f    20.2       20.6                13.1 7      14.37-       9.47)F
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            46.2         ..         ..                 ..           ..       53.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST l0% OWNERS           0.4         ..         ..                 ..           ..        0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              7450.0 X   4310.0 Zb 4070.0              4890.0      7970.0      2250.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        14860.0 .   8440.0 2 7460.0             5220.0 /c    6650.0      1770.0/i
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           2070.0/i 1870.0           .              1610.0 -     890.0       500.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          84.0       99.0       93.0               93.0       103.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               55 0       59 0      58 0                53.0        52.0        78.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          13.0/ad    14:0 .        ..              16.0        17.0/d      22.0 a
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..      17.414       ..                  ..                    14.7/k
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO               30.0       44.0       47.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL                                                                 65.0        81.0       109.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      10.0       14.0      15.0                            16.0        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              lo.0/k     10.o/e    10o./f              12.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                               2.0        2.0
(% OF SECONDARY)                       1.0         .0       2                   6.0 /d     14.0/e      14.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 i6:0/1     20.0       21.0                33.0       79.0         55.0/1
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 3.1/m       ..         ..                  ..          ..         1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         ..         ..         ..                 ..           ..       64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                 ..           ..       41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..         ..                 ..           ..       18.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           6.0       14.0       16.0                21.0        78.0        89.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        3.0        3.0                 1.0         5.0         4.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            22.o       67.0     135.0                114.0      124.0        247.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1/a n    0.6        0.3                 0.3         1.0         0.7
_ _ ______ - ------                                                    --- - - - __ _ _____-_-_-_-_-_____-_-_-____
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIuNS ON REVERSE



'i ra=iC I I t . ,,., .... . S-  ''ri
'   f   -Q - ; G U- _>x  =        ="3. .a* ,jZ     * c          ae   ;. eX  su cc 
, *^_yX ,9>'w -0.0> .; ..]S ^- ,.  ~.-t
t 8 <r *e 
3~~~~~        t                  .l  . . . . 'O C _.l 
,5 _ _ TC? : * 
Eli-  ;fOO_   00       s_oocXc03S >XO 
A X .c Iulo ;-eIc j 3 Gn _ ___E__ eG_  C| C0a3i.3c-
n DZC ;eceF fL;s s**oo ~XO3 2  t                 9Yo 
D  B  C  9  C  C  X  o  C   f I z  *   e   s CC  e Cfi   C  e  O  ,  .   O   g  3   W  c  w~~r
2  5~fI   o   ,  @@           3a uC       !   t e    7   ~ i sS   X-   a_ c   c  FS   f  , 
i r  *,r, g  en,   O  a6   13.t  W   *  -   w 3e<3R  W  e *  ,,  S W~T  X 8I  re . j  IW se3 C  - 
'~~~~~~~~~e ,- *1-  t1.3-       ,i'i        M    ,?'!        .   , 



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page3 of 4 Pages
ECONOMIC DEVEWFN4ENT DATA
(Amouts is millions of U.S. Dollars)
19714      1D         1976        1          197         1  3        1977       A9IB        1983       A98        197         1978        1983
At 1976   ~iece. and Exchange Rates                           Averge Annual Gr-th Hates                     As Percent of GUY
NATIONALi ACCOUNTS
Gros   D-seticPoduc                       11925      12749        13083      13422       14514      19063        4.0        8.i         5.6         4.4       100.7       100.7        99.9
G.ios  I    Term  of  Trdc  (t)             4"        t _____     _  _         -62_        -9         -71
Cress Someotic lscss,e         ~~~~~Ii     el4                    -33         11         19....,3     5.1         8.2        5.           .         100        10.0        10.
Gms. Don-tic 1-me                      UW~1283      1303        131 ~        1 2F48                                                                 0.0      1            O) 
.imports teal. SiF5                        2582      2419         2587        2718       2665        2936      -0.3         4.3         2.0         3.5        19.2        18.5        15.4
Export.   1. la. iPFS  im.port capacity)   12         12k         1 432     __RM         1446        2277        5.1       io.8         9.5         5.0         9.a        1.          11.9
Resour ce Clap                             1457         Jr18      15          113       _9"I        _7-         -5.0       -2.6       -11.6         2.8         -JjT        T           3.5
Cc-seunptios Espesditure-                 1489       11899       11965       12031       13027      16649        1.5        8.3         5.0         4.2        90.2        90.4        87.2
Is-etmest EoP. (.et, stocks)               1472       1911        2273        2550       2611        3093       20.1        2.4         3.4         3.9        19.1        18.1        16.2
Do-sstic Savings                            668        833        11-17       1299        1397       2434       24.8        7.2        n.8          5.4          9.7        9.7        1.2.8
Natios..l Unclogs                           787        976         1326       1732        1915       3187       30.1       10.6        10.7         3.5         13.0       13.3        16.7
MERCIIANDISE TRADE                                      Annual Data at Current Prices                                Average Annual Grcwth Rateo                   As Percen.t of GOT
Gcsportu
Copital Goods                             411        621         723         865        1149       1779        14.3       32.8        9.1        11.1        34.1        40.2        42.6
ictersodiste Goods (eccl. f.Iel)          6i4        824         750        1171        796        1113        19.9        3.6        6.9        12.0        30.3        27.9        p.6.6
of which, fertilicers                  97       102           58          67        192          41        -8.3       86.6      -26.6         -           2.6         6.7         1.0
POlL                                      238        335         359         411        495         619       20.0        20.4        4.6        10.2        16.2        17.3        l4.8
Cos-unt[on Goods                          384      542           501        .223         416        668         3.4       -2.1        9.9        14.i        16.8        14.6        16.0
Total Merchasdise Imsports (elif.)       317W      31IT         23917       2700       9B3         419          5.        12.6        79         1.          0.          0.          0.
R.. Cott.o                                 38        159          99          30         66         256        -7.6      120.0       31.1         6.9         2.6         4.8         9.5
Cotts Oars                                183         86         144         123        222         300       -12.4       80.5        6.2        13.4        10.8        16.0        11.1
Cottos Clot!h                             143        133         130         162         148        245         4.2        8.6       1o.6        13.4        14.2        10.7         9.1
Rice                                      212        233         250         250        227         444         5.6        9.2       14.4         9.1        21.9        16.4        16.5
Others                                    45         367         539         576        72         i43          8.6       25.5       15.0        16.2        50.         52.2        53.8
Tct.1a Me-ch-diso Exports (fob)          T1&.I     AN5          1162           T      -326           97         3.6       21.5       14.2        14.1       100 0       100.0       100.0
Mer.hacd... Trade Godi-e                                           Average 1976 0  0
Export Prsce Indec                       10149        99.7       100.0       103.8       113.2      159.4      -1.0        9.1        7.1         6.9
import Price Idsie                        70.8       105.4       100.0       111.0      120.7       156.9      16.2        8.7        5.4         7.0
Term   of Trade                          150.9        94.5       100.0        93.5        93.8      ioi.6     -14.7        0.3        1.6        -0.1
import of Vsl1-   Indcc                   78.6        87.6       100.0        917.5     107.7       157.5       7 4       10.5        7.9         6.8
VALUE ADDiED BY SECTOR                               Asnmsal Data at 1976 Ni.e. and Exchange Hates                  Averge Annual Growth Rates                   As Perc...t of Total
Agriculture                              3804       3719        389         395         429        5376         1.3        8.6        4.6         4.2         32.0       32.2        30.7
M-nfact-risg                             2824       2806        2Sl.        266         2814       3990        -2.0         6.8       7.0         8.o        21.6        21.3        22.8
Other Sector                             4782       5076          02        5723        62o        8155         6.2         8.4       5.6         5.9        46.4        46.5        465
Total                         316315~~~~~~~~-ii-  11601  12110   136        T3133       17521         2.5. .6                           5.9        100.0      100.O       100 0
P22B1IC FINANCE                                    Annual Data at 1976 Prices and Exchange sates                     Average Annual Growth Rates                   As Percest of GDP
(Centrol ~Goemucnct) 4/
Cs.rret Receipts                         1948       1859        1991        2100          .2.5                              ..                    ..15.3
C-rret Expexnditures                     2021       2216        983         683                                3.8         ..         .            .16.5                 __
Rudgetney Savings                         -73       -357        12W7        -163          .                                                                   -1.2
Other Public Scotsr                       .
Psblic Sector Inveatm..t                  745      U.33         1473        1618                             29.5            .         ..                    11 8
CURRENT EXPEN101T DETO'AILS                 Actual Data                 Es t.             DETAIL ON RUBLIC SECTOR     At 1976 PrIce   ad Exchang    Rates,                       9of Total
(Ao9Total     urren  Expend.)             1974       197         1965                          INVESTMENTF PROGRAM          94         1            f                -                _197477
Eds...tins                               6.3         7.0        8.1         8.9                Social Sectors              127        187         278         264                      17.4
Other Social Se.-ieeo                   20.5        18.7       12.2        10.6                Agriculture R/              235        295         324         315                      23.8
Agriculture                              3.2         3.3        4.1         4.o                Industry & Mining           105        196         277         495                      21.9
Other Eosnonic Services                  3.6         3.2        3.0         3.3                Poer                        107        157         234         223                       14.7
Deofesse                                38.0        39.7       40.o        39.1                Tranep. & C-cesncationo     149        221         252         262                       i8.o
Adstioitratims                          8.5         7.5         7.9        8.s                Other                        22         fl          499                                   4.1
Other 3/                      j%~~~~~~~~~199  2o.6   24.y        25.6                Total Expenditures         _745_      1133        116         38310.
Tota   C`urrent E,,peodituren          100.0       1000        3001       100.0                                                                                                         00
FINANCING
Public Sector Navingo 3/    -16       -107          s6         154                       -1 8
Dmestie Borrowing           298        333         383         254                       25.3
Foreign Borroawing          463        90l       _(           1210                       72.4
Total Financing            _745       U133       131         ihiR1                     100.0
Rote: All. years given in this table refer to the Pakistan fiscal year July 1-June 30. She fiscal year is identified by the calendar year in which it ends.
3/Consolidated federal and prwvincial government.
9/Including expenditure on the Turbela Don project.
Yinclu.des Interest paymients.
JAdjusted for invesltment in current budget, transfers of surpluses and self-financing by Psublic sector.
5outb Asia Dep-rtmeot
October 20, 197'1



- 22-
ANNE) I
Page 4 of 4 pages
orUSA  BAAC  7BAIn   W         BRIST!ARCE ArND DMT
Avg. Annua
Actual                    ~~~~~Estimated                        Projeted                                     Gro-th Rate
1972/T3      1973/74      mt/n        1975/76          1976/77         1977/78      1978/79      1979/80          /B18    i98i/02      1976/77-81/a2
20M5B.B  BALANCE GF PAYSSNf 
Ecp-rtn (toni. BPS)                     9D3         1,202       1,252        i,432            1,449           1,745        2,077        2,452        2,9D3        3,340            18.2
Interet (cot)                           -84           -80         -93          -97             -136            -153         -2017        -228         -240         -249           12-.9
Direc  I-conoet Gnom     (net)           -              B           4          -25             - 28            - 31         - 34         - 38         - 42         - 47
onrktereReni ttenne (gro.s)             145           150         229          353               599            700          770          85o          950         1,020           11.2
Otter Fator Service   (not)               ..          .            ..3                             3             -3            3           -3           -3           -3
Curren  Trnfr      (est)A _                             r       -1 -2 -2
PricateDirec-t Ineetfet (net)             ...                      -41                           45             50            55           60           66           73            10.1
Ofltiil CaItal irate (net)               46            91          140         120               103            103           80           60           40            20
Public MALT bon:n                                                                                                                        ,o           ,o4         1,2
Dinhur2 weto                          35 6          497       1,019        1,o6T              861             980        iD6          i06           ,6           ,2
Roipk-stt                            -li4          -106        43           4h                25-47                        3~           3437                      -403
Pet Dioburn,-te                        9_2           -391         84           8666733                                       701          707          780
D,buonot                              .:                         :                              081                        69            30           30           30
On  onto                    -                        -                 ~~~~                                             ~      ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-6  -4  4  -3
970  viuro ic t                                                                                  974 1979                                                            27
Ctt1Tro--ttu-    0. I    1/          44            44        _263           -103
l'bosccin  ot  cueven(-increase)  -202           23         -UP          -130              21-1
Actual                   E.tit.td
W7     1974/75      1975/77      1   7/f
GRAnT ADD LOAN CGOWOPGMEMrS                                                                         DEBT AND DEBT BEBVCE
Public Det Outs. & Dinb-ed                 4,521        4,88i        5,692        6,318
rlff-ciul Gruts, & Girnt-lito L-en       29            3D         116          1.20               ltret enPblic Debt (8                     ii           93           109          102
Pn'mou-n Public Debt j/106                          133          147           143
[stlile 015 L-no                                                                                 Total Pubic Debt Son-vie                  187          228           256          265
IBRD                                   -             60          60           SD                Otter Debt Service (not)
DILA                                   95            53          80           toO               Total Debt Der-ice (net)                 187           228          256          265
Otter BuDli-Interal          ~39            80          71          119
ucocrenonin                 ~~~~555      1,o64         856          630            Burden on EPopt EarnIgs (%) 2/
suppucre                      ~      ~     ~~~~5 13     9           42Pbuc. Debt De-imno                                       13.8         15.4          14.3         13.0
Otutije jut Dontututnens  1            ~57         12           lB                Total Debt Service
BooTh.                    -            ~      ~     ~     ~     ~        ~       ~~-  -  -  TIP-n Diret In-ot. In-.
Fltiu  tenon o c.i            -             --                                           g  T--        -l.    b
Toted Publ-c HALT Inne-9                           1,359       1,206        i                 crosToo      o   ubi   Db
Got. no 9 Prior Yea DOil)                  1.9          2.1          2.2           iS8
Actual Debt Dut.todiog noD-b-r 31, 1976                     A-.ot. as   Pri-c Yea DOiD                2.5           3 0          3 0          2.9
Di. nursed 0013'               Percet                    IBRD Debt Onto. & Dinburod                   299          257           305          307
IBRD - 9 Public Debt OiL                      6.6          5.3          5.4           4 9
EXTEROA-L iET                                                                                       DREG) Debt De-vice                          52.5          48.4         39.6          41.0
[sRD                                       320                                                fIBRD ae   Public Debt Sercice               28.1          21.2         15 5         15 5
IDA                                        549                          9                      MDA Debt Ontn. i Disbursd                    465           471          506          530
Gtber l.bfts-lut-1n                        122                          2                      MA en 9 Pub ic Debt GAS                      10.3          1.6          8.g           8 4
G...ni...cts                             4,7,58                        80                      IDA Debt De-vIes                              4.2          '.7          S.7           6.1
ficncl_   Guiieic                          1025                        2                      IDA an   Public Debt Sorrics                 2.2           2.5          2.2           2 3
Bend
Isil-c Debts o.1.e.-
Total   ubln- MhIT Dobtl     ~                                        100
otter 0)4T D'bts                             .
Sbort-t-r Licbt (dist. otip)..
out uppliscbDe                                                                                    staff estimate
.ic  --Iublubc                                                                                   nil or negligible
be' -oilablo -eportely but included in total                                                      I..len  tbh  half the aolient enit show
Tht   Igoro  o  1975/76 - 1977/78 include impted dinb-reoto -oacout of debt relief already agreed mitt the Pakistan Aid Coan-tien.
2/  -ocldiog eror   nod   esia
3/  Inclding  -sitneuto ode f-c debt relief.
Re~t of debt relief
2/ Buden enrsIngn       o  enp-rto Issn3ndlg BPS and workers * rittsnoe.
S-c.  Aoia Dep-rt-tn
Oct 'L r Do, 1977



- 23 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of August 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                      US$ Million
Credit                                         Amount    (less cancellations)
Number   Year     Borrower       Purpose        Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Sixty-seven loans and credits
fully disbursed /a                          515.5    426.0
590     1969   PICIC         Industrial
Development      22.0      --          0.5
(PICIC)
621     1969   Pakistan      Railways          14.5      --           2.0
177     1970   Pakistan      Industrial
Development
(IDBP)           --       18.7         0.9
206    1970   Pakistan       Engineering
Education        --        4.0         1.1
213    1970   Pakistan       Power
Distribution     --       23.0         1.7
422    1973   Pakistan       Karachi Port III   --       18.0         4.2
961    1974   Pakistan       Industrial
Investment      25.0       --          5.1
466    1974   Pakistan       Flood Rehab-
ilitation        --       35.0         0.5
988    1974   Pakarab        Multan
Fertilizer      Fertilizer       35.0      --          1.2
492    1974   Pakistan       Karachi Port IV    --      16.0         13.6
510    1974   Pakistan       Telecommuni-
cations III      --       36.0        11.9
1107    1975   SNGPL          Gas Pipeline IV   60.0      --          16.0
546    1975   Pakistan       Industrial
Development
(NDFC)           --      30.0         13.3



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Loan or                                                     US$ Million
Credit                                          Amount  (less cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower        Purpose        Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
1208    1976   Pakistan      Power
Transmis-
sion           50.0        -         49.2
620    1976   Pakistan       Seed                       23.0       22.8
1326    1976   PICIC          Industrial
Development      25.0                 24.3
630    1976   Pakistan      Lahore Water II             26.6       26.3
648    1976   Pakistan       Irrigation and
Drainage                   14.0       13.8
1366    1977   Pakistan      Livestock         10.0                 10.0
1372/
684    1977   Pakistan       Railways         35.0      25.0        60.0
678    1977   Pakistan       Education                  15.0       15.0
683    1977   Pakistan      Flood Reha-
bilitation                 40.0       28.0
TOTAL                                     792.0    750.4
of which has been repaid                  320.2     12.9
TOTAL now outstanding                     471.8    737.5
Amount sold                 23.3
of which has been repaid    22.3            1.0      --
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /b                                470.8    737.5
Total Undisbursed                         143.3    178.0        321.3
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly
for projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken
over by Bangladesh.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1977)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor              Type of Business       Loan     Equity   Total
1958   Steel Corp. of Pak.
Ltd                    Rolled Steel Products    0.63      --      0.63
1959   Adamjee Industries
Ltd                    Textiles                 0.75      --      0.75
1962   Gharibwal Cement       Cement
1965   Industries Ltd                                  5.25     0.42     5.67
1963-
1969-                        Development
1975   PICIC                  Financing                 --      0.52     0.52
1965   Crescent Jute
Products               Textiles                 1.95       --     1.95
1965   Packages Ltd           Paper Products           2.31      0.84    3.15
1967-  Pakistan Paper
1976   Corp. Ltd              Paper                    5.38     2.02     7.40
1969   Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.         Fertilizers              1.00     2.92     3.92
1969   Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd              Pulp and Paper           5.60      0.63    6.23
Total Gross Commitments                        22.87      7.35   30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                    17.83     0.90    18.73
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               5.04      6.45   11.49
Undisbursed                                     0.05        -     0.05



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 548         Tarbela Dam:  US$25.0 Million Loan of July 10, 1968;
Effective Date: August 2, 1968; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Loan was intended for residual financing, and disbursements
began in March 1975. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction
of the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974,
the main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first
impoundment began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties
were encountered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of
the tunnels necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the
tunnels and outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the
Indus Basin and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were
made by a number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the
cost of repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered
further damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has
now been redesigned and repaired, and operated satisfactorily during the 1977
irrigation season. The permanent solution for Stilling Basin 4 is still under
discussion. From 1975 through 1977, irrigation requirements have generally
been met. Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. The major
outstanding problem is that plunge pool development has endangered the flip-
bucket of the service spillway, and additional protection works for this
spillway must be completed before July 1978.
Loan No. 621         Ninth Railway:  US$14.5 Million Loan of June 26, 1969;
Effective Date: August 28, 1969; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
Nearly 90% of the Loan has been disbursed, and the project is
virtually complete. To provide for reimbursement of commissioning expenses,
however, the Closing Date, formerly December 31, 1975, has been extended to
June 30, 1978. The main outstanding item is construction of the first stage
of a new marshalling yard at Pipri, near Karachi. The location of this yard
was changed twice following protracted investigations and negotiations bet-
ween various agencies and planning authorities. Consultants have modified
the design of the yard for the new location, selected to reconcile urban
planning and railway marshalling objectives, and construction is underway.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
While progress on improvements to the main line, which will permit removal
of speed restrictions, has been rather slow, a new timetable for passenger
and goods trains was introduced in November 1975 and has helped to improve
utilization of motive power and rolling stock, especially freight wagons.
Credit No. 177      Development Finance Company - IDBP:   US$20.0 Million
Credit of February 11, 1970; Effective Date: June 25,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Amendments to the Credit Documents became effective on April 25,
1974. These enabled IDBP to resume utilizing IDA funds to finance Pakistan
industry without bearing the financial risk pending settlement of its lia-
bilities with respect to projects it had financed in Bangladesh. The original
Closing Date of December 31, 1974 was then postponed to December 31, 1977.
The Credit has been fully allocated by IDA and only $0.9 million remained
undisbursed as of August 31, 1977. IDBP's major problem is the large arrears
in its portfolio. IDBP's collection efforts have been improving, but the
long-term portfolio prospects will depend mainly on developments in the
political/economic environment, including the textile sector, which accounts
for a large portion of IDBP's outstandings.
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. The new physical facilities are nearing completion and were expected
to be in full use by August 1977. The Closing Date has been extended by
one year, until December 1977, to allow for execution of the technical
assistance program. The Closing Date will be extended further if the
University in time appoints all the technical specialists required to up-
grade its teaching programs.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:   US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Physical construction of the Grid Substation and associated equip-
ment of this Project is underway and can now be considered to be 60 percent
complete. Physical completion of the project is expected during the first
quarter of 1978 and disbursements should end at approximately the same time.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Nearly four-fifths of the Credit has been committed and disbursed.
The rate of progress on both the Juna Bunder Berths and Napier Mole Road
Bridge has improved in recent months despite strikes and civil disturbances.
Work on the bridge abutments and on the main bridge supports in the Chinna
Creek is proceeding satisfactorily. Completion of the berths and sheds as
well as the bridge is expected by the end of 1978.
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the oil berth commenced in January 1977, two years
behind the schedule prepared at the time of appraisal. Some 49% of the
permanent piling has been driven and the causeway at the shore end of the
trunkway has been 95% completed. Consultants are preparing contract
documents for channel dredging works and dredger procurement. Prequalifi-
cation of contractors for the dredging works and dredger manufacture is
presently under evaluation. Disbursements to date total US$2.4 million.
Meanwhile, however Port efficiency and productivity appear to be declining.
IDA has recommended that KPT seek outside assistance to improve this
situation, and is discussing this proposal with GOP.
Loan No. 961         Industrial Investment:   US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
The loan has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to $20.0 million
on September 23, 1977.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:   US$25.0 million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of September 23, 1977, subprojects for US$6.4 million had been
approved by the Bank. Two previous loans to PICIC have not yet been fully
disbursed: Loan 961 should be fully disbursed by the closing date, June 30,
1978; the closing date for Loan 590 was extended to September 30, 1977 for
one subproject in connection with an IFC project in Pakistan. No further
extension is anticipated. PICIC remains a capable institution, but its
operations and collections have been adversely affected by the recent poli-
tical difficulties in Pakistan. Its long-term prospects will depend mainly
on developments in the political/economic environments, including the
textile sector, which accounts for a large portion of PICIC's outstandings.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 466      Flood Rehabilitation:   US_$35.0 Million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The general imports and civil works categories of this credit have
been fully disbursed. The original Closing Date of June 30, 1975 was post-
poned to December 31, 1976, to permit completion of procurement of specialized
spare parts for the repair of construction and farm machinery. Because of
delays in the shipment of certain equipment, the Association has agreed to
continue disbursements until the end of 1977.
Loan No. 988         Multan Fertilizer:  US$35.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1974; Effective Date: July 30, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
Delays and escalating prices for civil works and, to a lesser
extent, for foreign equipment have raised the total project cost above the
appraisal estimate by about 84% (US$88 million). Construction delays have
been due to a shortage of civil contractors' capacity in Pakistan and to
late deliveries of critical equipment. Project completion is currently
forecast to be about 18 months longer than the appraisal estimate. The
project's economic return is still close to 28%, because of higher forecast
international fertilizer prices. The company has already obtained US$84
million of the extra financing required, in equity from the Government and
the foreign partner, and in debt from the OPEC Special Fund and local banks.
The remaining US$4 million are in the process of being secured. The project's
corporate and field management has been strengthened. Craftsmen and field
supervisors from Europe have recently been hired to expedite plant construction.
Credit No. 510      Third Telecommunications:   US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding satisfactorily
though somewhat behind schedule. Procurement action for all the main equip-
ment items is well advanced. T&T was required under Credit Agreements of
145-PAK and of 510-PAK to be reorganized to function more effectively along
commercial lines and to be given a greater degree of autonomy. Partly as a
result of political changes and country problems, this reorganization has
not yet been effected. The delay in introducing a satisfactory reorganiza-
tion has been taken up again with the Government.
Credit No. 546      National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
During 1976, the National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC)
continued to expand its operations and recorded substantial growth in
approvals, commitments and disbursements. We anticipate that the credit
will be fully committed by June 1978 and fully disbursed by the following



- 30 -
ANNEX II
March. Although NDFC is currently a highly profitable and financially
stable institution there are several aspects of its operation which are of
concern. The orientation of NDFC's activities has been toward commercial
banking; its development impact would be improved if it were to redirect
its efforts toward analyzing sector problems in the public industrial sector.
Its rapid expansion has placed considerable strain upon its limited manpower
resources and newly established systems and procedures and while further
growth is projected over the next few years, staffing and systems develop-
ment may prove limiting factors.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
All project activities are on schedule including the new gas
purification and dehydration units which are expected on stream by
December 1977, in time for the peak load period. A recent re-estimate
of the final project cost (including the additional pipelines and dis-
tribution systems authorized by the Bank) indicates that as much as
US$7 million of the loan might go unspent. New oil developments in the
Potwar Basin will greatly increase the future supply of associated gas
which the Borrower will have to market to avoid flaring it. The Borrower
has requested the Bank's permission to apply this unspent portion of the
loan towards equipment and facilities needed for handling the higher Potwar
gas flows as well as toward several other items that are required. The
recent Dhodak oil discovery is also expected to yield sizeable hydrocarbon
liquid (condensate) and gas flows. As in the case of the Potwar fields, the
only practical way to dispose of the gas is for the Borrower to market it in
lieu of Sui gas. The Dhodak field's production potential is expected to be
confirmed next year. The consequences of gas production from this area will
have to be studied, but no major problems are foreseen in the Borrower's
ability to plan and execute the change-over in gas supply nor in the Govern-
ment's cooperation in financing the additional capital and operating costs.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Production of prebasic and basic seed, and project coordination
and reporting procedures have improved. Progress of the Seed Corporations'
activities is satisfactory. Three of five consultants to be financed under
the credit are in place and designs for processing plants have been drafted.
Minor amendments to the Development Credit Agreement have been made to
simplify procurement procedures for vehicles and civil works.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:
US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Design work and the processing of bidding documents is proceeding
at a reasonable rate under the advice of engineering consultants financed
by UNDP. Part of a management team has been provided by the UK.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Lyallpur and Guddu and associated equipment will start in December 1977
with a completion date scheduled for mid-1980. The contract for consultant
engineering and supervision was signed in April 1976 and most bidding
documents for equipment and material have been issued.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Survey work has begun and the construction colony has been estab-
lished in the project area. Consultants were selected in March 1977 and
began work in May. With their help, the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), the implementing agency, is expected to begin procurement
by the end of 1977 and to complete project plans and start land acquisition
for construction early next year.
Credit No. 678     Third Education:   US$15.0 million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides facilities for primary teacher training; a
functional literacy program; agricultural education to assist in developing
higher and middle level manpower; and farmer training. Project management
is generally well organized; technical assistance is on schedule, while civil
works designs are about three months behind schedule because of delays in
finalizing sketch plans.
Loan No. 1366-T     Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Progress has been satisfactory. The first spearhead team, which
will set up Village Associations, is undergoing training. Management of the
Lahore Milk Plant has improved but the Sihala Meat Plant still has cash
flow problems.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 million Loan and US$25 million
and                  Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:   May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Procurement has generally begun smoothly. There has been some
delay in engaging consultants for detailed engineering of the communications
component of the project. This has now been resolved and work is expected to
commence shortly. Pakistan Railways performance on covenants and commitments
is generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:   $40 million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Repair of all major breaches in protective bunds and other priority
works under this Project were completed before the start of the 1977 monsoon
season. However, other components of the project have lagged behind schedule.
Only 40% of the civil works to be carried out by Mechanized Construction of
Pakistan (MCP), the prime contractor, had been completed by September 1977.
In July 1977, the Association agreed to amend the Credit Agreement to permit
the Provinces, in addition to MCP, to be reimbursed for civil works. There
have also been delays in ordering spares and equipment, due to MCP's diffi-
culties in obtaining foreign exchange.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN - SCARP VI SALINITY CONTROL
AND RECLAMATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project:
First planning report prepared in 1968.
(b) Agency which has prepared the project:
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with the
assistance of Tipton and Kalmbach Inc., Consulting
Engineers (U.S.A.).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project:
November 1970. First mission in April 1971, by which time
WAPDA became a Federal Government agency and the project
fell within the orbit of the Irrigation Department of the
Government of Punjab.
(d) Subsequent events:
No agreement on basic concepts was reached between WAPDA
and GOPunjab and, therefore, preparation of appraisal
report was postponed, pending agreement.
(e) Agency preparing revised project plan and date:
WAPDA with the assistance of Sabasun Technical Services,
Consulting Engineers (Pakistan), in June 1976.
(f) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 24, 1976.
(g) Date of completion of negotiations:
September 20, 1977.
(h) Planned date of effectiveness:
About February 28, 1978.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) GOP to undertake a country-wide study of grain-
storage facilities and requirements (para 38).
(b) GOP to submit to IDA for review annual budget
estimates and implementation schedules for the
project (para 51).
(c)  WAPDA's Central Monitoring Organization (CMO)
to collect data on cropping patterns, yields,
production, private tubewell development and
fertilizer consumption in the project area;
and to conduct surveys before commencement of
project implementation and regularly thereafter
to record changes in crop production brought
about by the project (para 49).
(d) Project Steering Committee and Project Coordination
Committee to be formed at Provincial and Divisional
Level, respectively (para 50).
(e) GOP to conduct a review of the structure and level
of agricultural pricing and taxation, with particular
reference to water charges, with a view toward intro-
ducing revisions to the pricing and taxation system
in Punjab by 1980 based on the conclusions and
recommendations of this review (para 54).
(f) Unless otherwise agreed in the light of the above
review, Punjab to introduce higher water charges
throughout the Province on a phased basis such that
by 1990 total water revenues in Punjab will cover
Province-wide expenditures on O&M of irrigation and
drainage facilities and a reasonable portion of the
investment cost of such facilities or revenues
collected in the project area will cover O&M
costs plus a reasonable portion of the capital
costs of project facilities (para 54).



IBRD 12601
..'30 -'                                                   MAC H 1977
A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
OProphcr Ares                                                                               .iX      0; / / 
SALINITY      ~PAKISTANc4' ir
SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION.                                      /             /      \W   bo/5
DETAILED PROJECT LOCATION
Z                                               i  t;  k / t j 8 Non~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q   Pra,ecr Aes naUnit Boundaries
),.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rNc              e's.... *                              Mri ,aas Brache an ,,  slrr iilaron
/ | \ SX 7 \_ * r~~~~~ Baundarn Separat ng mhe Abbania Flaood Channel
/"  *   t  ~~\~* I,  '-I a       5*;                                                     Eamensian frn, the Chabstan Desert
-    Th,                                                              T  N .  Ib'-
728                                       20'30                                                            -



