CREDIT NUMBER 754 PAK
WAPDA Project Agreement
(Salinity Control and Reclamation
SCARP VI Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
OF PAKISTAN
Dated January 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 754 PAK
WAPDA PROJECT AGREENENT
AGREEi,ENT, dated January 19, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter
called WAPDA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that WAPDA agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Province of Punjab (hereinafter referred
to as Punjab), Punjab has agreed to undertake certain obligations
in respect of the Project; and
WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WAPDA shall carry out Parts A (except Part
A.6), B.1, B.5 and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the.
Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and


﻿-2-
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist WAPDA in implementing
those parts of the Project for which WAPDA is responsible, WAPDA
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. WAPDA shall cause the General Manager of
WAPDA-Northern Zone to prepare an annual Project Implementation
Plan satisfactory to the Association, together with budgetary
estimates for the following fiscal year, to be furnished to the
Borrower and the Association for their review not later than
March 31, 1978 and March 31 of each year thereafter.
Section 2.04. WAPDA shall, through its Central Monitoring
Organization, undertake benchmark and follow-up surveys to monitor
the agricultural, social and economic changes brought about by the
Project, and shall make such surveys available to the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) WAPDA shall, in accordance with a timetable
and arrangements satisfactory to the Association, transfer to
Punjab such equipment and facilities provided or constructed
under the Project, as shall be agreed with the Association.
(b) Prior to such transfer, WAPDA shall ensure, as part of
the Project, that said equipment and facilities are operating
satisfactorily.
Section 2.06. (a) WAPDA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by WAPDA to replace or repair such gocds.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to WAPDA by the Borrower shall be used exclusively for
the Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. (a) WAPDA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) WAPDA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. (a) WAPDA shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) WAPDA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of those parts of the Project for which WAPDA is respon-
sible, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by WAPDA of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. WAPDA shall, in respect of the Project, main-
tain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. WAPDA shall, in respect of the Project: (i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿-4-
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of WAPDA and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify WAPDA
of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿-5-
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington-, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WAPDA:
Water and Power Development
Authority
WAPDA House
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
WAPDA
Lahore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of WAPDA may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as the said Chairman
shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. WAPDA shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of WAPDA,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by WAPDA pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.


﻿-6 -
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative


