CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 754 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
0
(Salinity Control and Reclamotion
SCARP VI Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 754 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1978, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Borrower's Province of Punjab (hereinafter
referred to as Punjab), Punjab has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the Project;
(C) By an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Water and Power Development Authority of
Pakistan (hereinafter referred to as WAPDA), WAPDA has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the Project;
(D) The Government of the United Kingdom and Northern
Ireland intends to make a grant (hereinafter referred to as the UK
Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) to assist in financing
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland
and the Borrower (hereinafter referred to as the UK Grant Agree-
ment);
(E) The Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau intends to make a
loan (hereinafter referred to as the KfW Loan) to the Borrower in
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty million
Deutsche Marks (DM 20,000,000) to assist in financing the Project
on terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederafbau and the Borrower
(hereinafter referred to as the KfW Agreement); and
(F) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a
project agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Punjab;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitionr
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even dite herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Punjab Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the Punjab Project Agreement;
(b) "WAPDA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the WAPDA Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the WAPDA Project Agreement;
(c)  "Act" means the Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority Act, 1958, as amended to the date of this Agreement and
all regulations framed thereunder;
(d) "WAPDA" means the Borrower's Water and Power Development
Authority established under the Act, and includes any agency or
entity of the Borrower or of any political subdivision of the
Borrower which shall perform in whole or in part, the services
performed at the date of this Agreement by such Authority;
(e) "SCARP VI Area" means the Salinity Control and Reclama-
tion Project (VI) Area of about 1,700,000 acres mainly in the
Rahimyar Khan District, subdivided into Units I to V as described
in the Panjnad-Abbasia Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
Planning Report by Sabasun Technical Services for WAPDA dated
June 19, 1976;


﻿- 3 -
(f) "Project Area" means the area in which the Project is
to be carried out, and consists of Units II to V of the SCARP VI
Area;
(g) "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan or any successor
thereof;
(h) "Participating Banks" means the banks selected by the
Borrower and the Association to provide funds for Part C of the
Project;
(i) "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to
in Section 2.03 of the WAPDA Project Agreement; and
(j) "Project Steering Committee" and "Project Coordinating
Committee" mean the committees established pursuant to Section
3.08 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association.
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1988, and ending October 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 1997 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, agri-
cultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose. To that end, the Borrower shall make
adequate and timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of
the Project in line with the estimated financial requirements for
the Project included in the Project Implementation Plan.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause Punjab and WAPDA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Punjab Project Agreement and the WAPDA
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Punjab and WAPDA to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist WAPDA in carrying out
Parts A (except Parts A.3 and A.6) and D of the Project, the
Borrower shall make available to WAPDA the proceeds of the Credit
allocated under Categories (1) and (4) of Schedule I to this
Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(b) In order to assist Punjab in carrying out Part A.6 of
the Project, the Borrower shall make available to Punjab the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated under Category (2) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(c) In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall make available through SBP to the Participating
Banks, to be made further available to contractors and farmers,
the proceeds of the Credit allocated under Category (3) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to assist WAPDA in carrying out: (i)
Part D.1 of the Project, and (ii) Part D.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause WAPDA to employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incidental to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project,
Section 3.05. The Borrover shall: (i) by June 30, 1979, or
such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall further
agree, submit to the Association a plan to improve grain storage
in Pakistan, including proposals satisfactory to the Association
for improving arrangements for the storage of grain produced in
the Project Area, and (ii) by July 1, 1980, or such other date as
the Borrower and the Association shall further agree, commence
implementation of such plan with regard to the Project Area.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. Insofar as the Borrower provides grants to
farmers for the installation of private tubewells for irrigation
purposes anywhere in its territories, the Borr'wer shall make
corresponding grants to farmers in the Project Area for construc-
tion of privately owned tubewells irrespective of the size of land
holding.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall provide or cause to be
provided funds necessary to enable Participating Banks to meet the
agricultural credit requirements under Part C of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause to be established
and maintained, a Project Steering Committee at the Provincial
level and a Project Coordinating Committee at the District level,
acceptable to the Association, responsible for coordination among
agencies which will implement the Project, consisting of, but
not limited to, representatives of such agencies and farmer
beneficiaries in the Project Area.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or shall cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods -and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,


﻿- 7 -
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower and Punjab responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and WAPDA, SBP and
Participating Banks.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the departments or agencies of
the Borrower and Punjab responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and WAPDA, SBP and Participating Banks, in
respect of activities related to the Project to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements (statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as aviilable but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of th-e financial statements for such year as so audited,
except for SBP and Participating Banks whose accounts shall be
consolidated by the Borrower for review by the Association as soon
as available and (B) the report ol' such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other Project related information concerning the accounts and
finandial statements of the agencies and departments referred
to hereinabove, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to b
carried out:
(a) a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, to be furnished to the Association for discussion
on or before September 30, 1979, on the structure and level of
agricultural pricing and taxation with particular reference to.
water charges; and


﻿- 8 -
(b) the measures referred to in Article DI of the Punjab
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Punjab shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or other obligation of Punjab under the Punjab Project
Agreement;
(b) WAPDA shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of WAPDA under the WAPDA Project
Agreement;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Act or other
legislation has been enacted or is implemented which materially
and adversely affects the responsibilities or operations of WAPDA;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that (i) Punjab will be able to perform its
obligations under the Punjab Project Agreement, or (ii) WAPDA will
be able to perform its obligations under the WAPDA Project Agree-
ment; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the UK Grant or the KfW Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the UK Grant or the
KfW Loan Agreement, respectively, or
(B) the KfW Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancella-
tion, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its


﻿-9-
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (d) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) (i) B of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Punjab Project Agree-
ment on behalf of Punjab have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the WAPDA Project Agree-
ment on behalf of WAPDA have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c) all the conditions applicable to the Borrower, Punjab
aind WAPDA for the disbursement of the UK Grant and the KfW Loan
have been fulfilled;
(d) the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 (i) of this
Agreement have been appointed; and
(e) the Project Steering Committee and the Project Coordi-
nating Committee have been established.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Punjab Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
Punjab, and is legally binding upon Punjab in accordance with its
terms; and
(b) that the WAPDA Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
WAPDA, and is legally binding upon WAPDA in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date April 25, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to
the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)                           45,000,000
(a) Civil Works                            100% of foreign
under Parts                            expenditures and
A.1, 2, 4 and                          50% of local ex-
5 of the Proj-                         penditures
ect, and
(b) Equipment and                          100% of foreign
materials under                        expenditures, or
Parts A.1 and 2                        100% of local ex-
of the Project                         penditures (ex-
factory) for
locally manufac-
tured items, or
50% of expendi-
tures for other
locally procured
goods
(2) Gypsum under Part          2,000,000        50%
A.6 of the Project
(3) Agricultural Credits       8,500,000        50% of amounts
through Participating                      disbursed
Banks under Part C of
the Project
(4) Consultants' Services                       100%
(a) under Part D.1        4,000,000
of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) under Part D.2        2,000,000
of the Project
(5) Unallocated                8,500,000
TOTAL     70,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will


﻿-14-
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Construction in Unit II of about 930 tubewells of
various discharge capacities, and appurtenant works.
2.   Construction of about 250 drainage tubewells in Unit V.
3.   Construction of disposal works, including pumping
stations and evaporation ponds for saline effluent.
4.   Construction of an electrification network in the
Project Area to provide energy for the public tubewells
and pumping stations.
5.   Construction or enlargement, as necessary, of canals and
structures, irrigation outlets and water courses.
6.   Provision and application of gypsum for soil reclamation
on about 40,000 acres.
Part B:
1.   Provision of communication and computer equipment to
improve operation of the irrigation works in the Panjnad
Barrage command.
2.   Provision of equipment and vehicles for the soils
laboratory at Bahawalpur.
3.   Provision of surveying instruments.
4.   Provision of tractors for land-levelling.
5.   Provision of equipment for the electrification network.
Part C:   Provision of agricultural credit through Participating
Banks to farmers for:
1.   Installation of tubewells in Unit III.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Land leveling, the hiring of bull.ozers and fine
leveling equipment.
Part D:   Consultants' services for:
1.   Project implementation.
2.   Preparation of other irrigation and drainage projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the works included in the Project other than
those referred to in Part B.1 hereunder, shall be prequalified as
described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works and the application of gypsum under Parts A.5
and 6 of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Equipment and vehicles with unit prices not exceeding the
equivalent of $25,000 shall be procured in accordance with the
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association, provided that the aggregate expenditure of items so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to Pakistan of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Pakistan equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the


﻿- 19 -
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which
as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) (a) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A.2 of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the'
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications


﻿- 20 -
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part D.1 above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and contracts
for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said consultants and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 21 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


