Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  i$
Report No. P-2567-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 24, 1979
This document hbs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$1.00   =   DH 3.82
DH 1.00   =   US$0.26
Fiscal Year:    January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ONEP          Office National de l'Eau Potable
FEC           Fonds d'Equipement Communal
RAD           Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution
d'Eau et d'Electricite de Casablanca
RAK           Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution
d'Eau et d'Electricite de Kinitra
RED           Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution
d'Eau et d'Electricite de Rabat-Sale



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco
Beneficiaries:       The Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP) and the water
distributing regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Sale and Kenitra.
Amount:              US$49 million
Terms:               Twenty years including four years of grace, with an
interest rate of 7.9 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend on the same terms: (i) $39.5
million to the Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP),
and (ii) $4.25 million to the water distributing regie
of Casablanca (RAD), $2.85 million to the water distri-
buting regie of Rabat-Sale (RED), and $1.4 million to
the water distributing regie of Kenitra (RAK) to finance
house connections of low-income customers. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by ONEP for $39.5 million
and by the Government for the remainder.
Project
Description:        The primary objective of the project is to improve access
to safe water supplies of the population of the Mid-Atlantic
Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It consists of: (i)
the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast. These addi-
tional facilities would include the construction of two
booster pumping stations along the existing transmission
pipeline, a raw water pumping station with a capacity
of 5 m3/sec., a 2.83 km pressure main linking the pump-
ing station at the foot of the Bou Regreg dam with the
treatment plant, a 5 m3/sec. treatment plant, a 2 km
transmission main to Rabat, and an 82 km transmission
main to Casablanca; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities for the Greater
Agadir area. This component would include: (a) equip-
ping the existing Ahmar Boudhar well field with pumps
and ancillary equipment; (b) constructing a transmis-
sion pipeline to Agadir and a treatment plant at Sidi
Bou Shab; and (c) installing power transmission lines
to the well field and the treatment station; (iii) funds
for credit facilities to finance house connections of
the low-income population in the project area; and (iv)
studies. The implementation of the project does not
pose any special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
an all-time high, and despite some Government restrictions, did not slow down,
while the world demand for Morocco's main exports, especially phosphate,
recovered only moderately. At the same time, efforts to increase budgetary
savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in investment and
military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced again a large
resource gap (21 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (19 percent of
GDP). To cover these, it sharply increased external borrowing to $1.9
billion (commitments), from $909 million in 1976 and $780 million in 1975;
most were from commercial sources. Despite these borrowings, the country's
net foreign assets stayed at a low level (1.2 months of 1977 imports by
year's end). On the domestic side, external borrowings fueled monetary
expansion which remained rapid in 1977; consumer prices rose 12.5 percent
over 1976 compared to about 8 percent in the previous 2 years.
5.        By and large, the new Government has succeeded in regaining control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. Investment has since been reduced by
an estimated 25 percent in real terms, and so has external borrowing which
at $1.3 billion of new commitments was, however, still large and mostly on
commercial terms. The Government has achieved these improvements through
budgetary austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint
in current spending and some tax increases; it applied selective import
restrictions and controls on private credit preserving as much as possible
the growth momentum of private sector output and exports. A good agricultural
crop in 1978 helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in construction
activity largely resulting from cuts in public investment plans; overall, GDP
grew by an estimated 4 percent in real terms in 1978.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gaps and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government has introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives are to further reduce
the budget and current balance of payments deficits, and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects,
education and health, especially insofar as these benefit the neediest popula-
tion groups. Implementation of major public projects not meeting these
criteria has been postponed, while the measures designed to preserve growth in
the private sector have been strengthened. Recently, the Government agreed
with the IMF on a short-term financial rehabilitation program for 1979. This
program calls for continued limitation of budgetary expenditures, domestic
credit expansion and new external borrowing, while maintaining selective
import restrictions and credit controls favoring productive private activities.
It is aimed at reducing the overall budget deficit by 15 percent, and narrow-
ing the current balance of payments deficit by more than 30 percent. Assuming
harvests are equal to those of 1978 and phosphate exports increase by 6
percent in quantity and 7 percent in value, real GDP growth in 1979 again may
still not exceed 4 percent. Gross official reserves would stay around 1.5
months of imports.



- 3 -
7.        While the interim measures may be effective in re-balancing the econ-
omy, because of the short-term constraints on exports and savings, they might
cause a rise in social pressures. The Government is therefore anxious to
resume the more dynamic social policy stance which characterized Moroccan devel-
opment during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation of the 1981-85 P1 n has begun and
attention is being given to long-term reforms which are needed if an early
resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is to be achieved.
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I reflect the Government's
keen concern to avoid a liquidity crisis in the next two to three years.
They assume sharp policy adjustments to keep the economy on a financially
viable growth path over the long run, but also reflect the desire to maintain
adequate GDP and employment growth during the interim period, and to achieve
further progress towards the country's social objectives. The projections
show that investment and GDP growth will have to be curtailed for the next
two to three years, given the constraints on savings and exports. In this
period, Morocco will need substantial capital transfers from abroad on terms
as favorable as possible to sustain the project investment and GDP growth.
Beyond 1982, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume more rapid
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.        Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domestic sav-
ings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, permit some real expansion of original invest-
ment programs, and undertake large capital-intensive projects geared to import
substitution (in particular sugar, chemicals, shipping and steel). Thus the
GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment rose to nearly
32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972. In the process,
Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects not only in
traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution industries and
physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult sectors such as
rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and socially-oriented
programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve the investment
levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints being domestic
savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP after the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings of only 4.7 percent of GDP in 1977. Successful efforts to raise
public revenues to 28 percent of GDP in 1977 were offset by increases in
current spending, partly for education and health, but particularly for
price subsidies and military expenses. Tax reform measures (which are being
prepared with IMF assistance) and unpopular price policy decisions, such as
reduction of subsidies to urban consumers, farmers and industrial investors,
will be required to increase public savings. Interest rate adjustments to
reflect changes in the rate of domestic price inflation would also be called
for.



- 4 -
11.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 2 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions, such as textiles, export production
and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not aggres-
sively sought; Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC, especially
France. Yet, it has considerable export potential if only products and
markets were diversified. Programs designed to boost foreign exchange earn-
ings are now under preparation particularly for phosphate and its derivatives,
fresh and processed foodstuffs, and tourism. With regard to phosphate, for
example, Morocco and the USSR signed agreements in March 1978 under which
Morocco will export phosphate rock and phosphoric acid for the next 30 years
for possibly up to 10 million tons per year by 1985-86; in return, the USSR
will lend Morocco up to $2 billion on favorable terms to develop its phosphate
export capacity and will export various commodities and goods to Morocco,
including crude oil. These agreements substantially improve Morocco's long-
term prospects for phosphate exports.
12.       While the emphasis on completion of high-return projects will have
to continue, Morocco should shift away from highly capital-intensive, import
substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for phys-
ical infrastructure. This would call for improvements in policy planning and
investment programming. Consultants are currently completing a major study
on industrial investment strategy, which should facilitate better investment
selection. A changed investment pattern should reduce the external resource
gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at lower investment
and import costs than in recent years.
Social Development Strategy
13.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up
to the early 1970's were accompanied by widening income disparities and a
decline in real consumption for the weaker sections of Morocco's population.
As a major objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends.
The Government's strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of
employment creation; (ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and
(iii) specific investment programs to benefit the least favored population
groups.
14.       Progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed by
the increased expenditures for social sectors (from DH 1.3 billion in 1972
to DH 3.7 billion in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,
Morocco will not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors, and cuts have been made as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.



-5-
15.       With the population growth rate now at about 3 percent, pressure
to provide adequate social services will rise.  Despite short-term financial
constraints, efforts will be needed to limit such growth. Consequently,
strengthening health and family planning services is now an integral part of
the Governmert's social objectives.
External Debt and Debt Service
16.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1973 (para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 19 to 10
years and average interest rose from 5 to 7.5 percent between 1974 and 1977.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about $70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978.
From the low levels in 1974-75, Morocco's external debt has risen rapidly to
an estimated $4.0 billion (disbursed only) at the end of 1978, and in that
year debt service amounted to $481 million (18 percent of exports and workers'
remittances).  As a result of recent and projected borrowings, debt and debt
service may be expected to increase further, and debt service may exceed 25
percent of exports and workers' remittances by 1980-82, and decline progres-
sively thereafter. The country's net foreign assets would remain at a rela-
tively low level. Because of the expected upswing in debt service, external
debt management has become more restrictive and selective since 1978. If
debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue this policy
over the next few years. Additional commercial borrowing should be limited,
and efforts should be increased to seek loans on softer terms. Yet, external
borrowing needs would be sizeable. Beyond 1980-82, however, the situation
should progressively improve with the Government firmly controlling domestic
demand and with good long-term prospects for exports and, in particular, with
assured sales of phosphate rock and derivatives. Morocco should therefore be
considered creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 40 projects, financ-
ing a total of $1,106.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $886
million has been lent since the beginning of FY73. IDA credits, totalling
$50.0 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third Window
loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in March
1976. IFC investments have amounted to $12.6 million ($10.5 million after
cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April
30, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some



cases, delays in project implementation have been caused by management or
procurement difficulties, and in 1974 cost overruns increased due to the
upsurge in investment activity in Morocco and the acceleration of inflation.
Overall performance in project execution, however, has considerably improved
in recent years. Total disbursements as of December 31, 1978, amounted to 72
percent of original appraisal forecasts and to 75 percent of revised forecasts.
18.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 27 and 32 percent respec-
tively of total net commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (14
percent), education (14 percent), tourism (7 percent), roads (4 percent), and
urban development (2 percent). Apart from the transfer of resources to
Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 5.5 percent of total fixed
investment in 1970-74), the main objectives of lending were to foster and
strengthen development institutions, provide technical assistance especially
for project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve
the balance of payments.
19.       While these objectives remain, greater emphasis is being given to
prepare projects that support the Government's policy of fostering social
development and improving income distribution. An increasing share of Bank
Group lending will be devoted to projects directly or indirectly developing
the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural income groups and
meeting their basic needs, including, possibly, Bank participation in the
Government's program for promoting integrated regional development, which is
under discussion.
20.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit and, through a first operation in FY75, improvement in the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to support small farmers
and the development of rainfed areas. The Fez-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Proj-
ect, approved in June 1978 was the second, after the Meknes Project (Credit
555-MOR) to directly address these objectives with the added advantage of
being located in the favorable cereal producing zone. An integrated rural
development project, including livestock/forestry development, is under
preparation in a rainfed zone in northern Morocco. A project aimed at develop-
ing production and marketing of off-season vegetables for export markets has
recently been appraised.
21.       Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints. The eighth loan to Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-
scale industry component to promote labor intensive investments. This pilot
effort led to the recently approved Integrated Project for Small Scale Industry
Development. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in 1978 will help increase
Morocco's foreign exchange earnings. Continued lending for industry through
the BNDE is contemplated as well as further lending to Credit Immobilier et
Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development.



- 7 -
22.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of one loan for water
supply, two loans for power generation and a recently approved loan for
village electrification and one engineering loan for the preparation of a
sewerage project for Casablanca. Additional projects designed to assist
low-income groups are under preparation, including a sewerage rroject in Agadir.
The proposed project would better the standard of living of the urban popula-
tion, particularly the poor, along the Mid-Atlantic Coast and in the Greater
Agadir area by providing water supply services.
23.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary
education and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,
and to expand facilities in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis
on technical education has been recently approved.
24.       The Rabat Urban Project (FY78) was the first Bank-financed project
in the urban sector. Follow up projects are under consideration to support
the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban development through the
provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social services and the creation
of employment opportunities.
25.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $221 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and dropped
from $831 million in 1977 to $370 million in 1978. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the
end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 11.2 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 9.5
percent in 1978. By 1983 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 25 percent and 12 percent respectively.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
26.       In most parts of Morocco water is scarce, the summers are hot and
dry, and rainfall is concentrated in the few winter months. The scarcity of
water supplies is a present and growing problem in some regions as a result of
the unbalanced distribution of the resources (annual rainfall varies between
100 mm and 1,000 mm in the different areas of the country) and the rapid
increase in population (3 percent per annum). Available water sources renewed
each year amount to some 25 billion m3 and about 16 billion m3 are usable. At
present 50 percent of these resources are exploited: 300 million m3 for
potable water (3.7 percent), 200 million m3 for industries (2.3 percent), and
7.5 billion m3 for agriculture (94 percent).
27.       Morocco's present population is about 18 million with about 7 mil-
lion or 39.5 percent living in the urban areas, which ranks Morocco as one of
Africa's most urbanized nations. The urban population is heavily concentrated



- 8 -
in six major cities: Casablanca, Rabat-Sale, Marrakech, Fes, Meknes and
Tangier, which have already a population of about 4 million. Urban growth
rate, including migration from rural areas, is estimated to be 4.8 percent
annually. Overcrowding in the ancient parts of the cities (medinas) and in
the more recent shantytowns (bidonvilles) at the outskirts of cities is
becoming very serious and underlines the urgent need to improve inadequate
water supply and sewerage systems.
28.        Some urban or village water supply systems date back to the Middle
Ages. The medina of Fes in particular, the ancient imperial capital, still
uses water and sewer systems in earthenware pipes which were started in
the 11th century. These ancient systems were, however, progressively replaced
by modern installations during the first half of the century. Today, in
general, all of the urban population have at least limited access to piped
water, but only about 45 percent are supplied through house connections.
Parts of the medinas and shantytowns have to rely on public standpipes, which
in most cases are not sufficient with often more than 2,000 consumers for a
multiple faucet standpipe and sometimes with walking distances of over 500
meters. In the rural areas, water is still often provided through ancient
wells, sometimes modernized with pumps; only 5 percent of the population has
house connections and an additional 10 percent has access to public stand-
pipes. Organized sewer systems exist only in the large cities, but are
generally inadequate; only about one third of the population is connected to
sewers. Morocco has no major sewage treatment facilities and most of the
networks discharge raw sewage into rivers, streams or the sea, creating severe
health hazards. No organized disposal systems are available to the smaller
cities and rural population.
Organization and Administration
29.       The study and development of water resources is the responsibility
of the Hydraulics Department of the Ministry of Equipment which is also in
charge of the operation, maintenance and control of all major dams. Produc-
tion and distribution of potable water is carried out by different agencies
depending on whether the demand is located in urban or semi-rural or rural
areas. The largest organization is the Office National de l'Eau Potable
(ONEP), the agency responsible, under the tutelage of the Ministry of Equip-
ment, for development, production and transmission of water to the urban
centers. Distribution of water in the urban areas is mainly the responsi-
bility of autonomous municipal agencies (regies) in large cities and elsewhere
of municipal administrations and ONEP. The Ministry of Interior supervises
the municipalities and, through them, the Regies, and has to approve the
tariffs they propose. In the past, the Regies have financed between 80 per-
cent and 100 percent of their investment program through internally generated
funds and customer contributions payable at the time of connecting to the
system. Tariffs based on an exhaustive tariff study, which went into effect
in October 1977 have been instrumental in achieving this goal.
30.       Water distribution in the administratively chartered rural centers,
with about 1.8 million inhabitants, falls under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Equipment and is assured by ONEP. The Ministry of Agriculture



- 9 -
is responsible for the other rural centers with a population of about 9.2
million. Operation of water distribution systems in the rural centers is
extremely costly because of the scattered nature of the habitat, and the lack
of economies of scale. Studies of water distribution systems in North Africa
have shown that the per capita investment is up to ten times higher for a
village of 403 inhabitants than for a town of 40,000. Tariffs in line with
these costs would become prohibitive and might add to the exodus from the
rural areas.
31.       The services provided by the sector are subject to a variety of
taxes which are collected by the Government. Water sales are subject to
a 6.38 percent tax, services rendered to a 7.5 percent, and purchase of
equipment and materials to an average 11.25 percent. The water sales tax
and the tax on services rendered, which are contributed by the water con-
sumers, exceed the losses which ONEP incurs in operating the rural centers.
These consumers, primarily those in the densely populated areas along the
Mid-Atlantic Coast, therefore, generate the funds needed to provide a cross-
subsidy within the sector and to cover those operating costs of the rural
centers which are not met by revenues.
32.       Sewer systems, where they exist, are also administered by the
municipalities, but the Government plans to either create new Regies or to
enlarge the existing ones which are at present responsible for water and
electricity, once adequate sewerage becomes operational. Studies for the
installation of sewerage including treatment facilities in certain urban areas
are indeed under preparation, and some pilot treatment plants have been
constructed to gather information and experience on the most appropriate
treatment technologies.
Investment Programs and Priorities
33.       Although the development and extension of water supply facilities
enjoy high priority in the Interim Three-Year Plan (1978-1980), the Government
is faced with severe budgetary constraints during the next two years. The
problem is compounded by the remote location of fresh water sources from the
main urban centers, which requires the construction of storage reservoirs and
long transmission pipelines resulting in high capital costs. First priority
is, therefore, given to the improvement of water supply in the urban areas
where limited financial resources could benefit a large segment of the popu-
lation. As approximately 70 percent of the gross national product originates
from the Mid-Atlantic Coast from Casablanca to Kenitra, the extension of the
bulk water production facilities serving this area has a high priority. Also
included in the Plan is the development of water supply facilities in the
Greater Agadir area, as well as in Fes, Marrakech, Tangier and Safi. For the
agglomerate villages in the rural areas, the Three-Year Plan envisages an
investment of $14 million, while the scattered rural population continues to
be served by individual systems.
Bank Lending for Water Supply and Sewerage
34.       The Bank's strategy in the water supply and sewerage sector is to
help the Government plan the sectoral development in the overall context of



- 10 -
total water resources and needs, to support the investment program for improv-
ing water supply, sewerage and sanitation facilities and to provide technical
assistance and training for institution building and staff development. A
loan of $48 million (Loan 850-MOR) was made to ONEP in 1972 to help finance
the construction of bulk water production facilities along the Mid-Atlantic
Coast. As indicated in Annex II, all project elements are completed, except
for the training school, which is under construction and expected to be
completed by the fall of 1979; training courses are presently being given in
temporary facilities. A second loan of $1.5 million (Loan S-7 MOR) in 1977
provides the foreign exchange required for the preparation of a feasibility
study for the sewerage facilities of the Casablanca-Mohammedia area. Six
Bank-financed urban and rural development projects are also providing water
supply and sanitation systems for low-income groups. The proposed loan of $49
million would constitute a significant step towards improving access to safe
water for most of the urban poverty group in the project area. The Bank's
future lending program would include a loan for sewerage in Casablanca-
Mohammedia, and a loan for water distribution and sewerage in the Greater
Agadir area as well as further increases in house connections for low-income
customers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project, which would be the Bank's third operation
in the sector, was prepared by ONEP with the assistance of the French consult-
ing firm "Societe Anonyme Francaise d'Etudes et de Gestion" (SAFEGE). It was
appraised in October 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington on April
25-May 1, 1979 with a Moroccan delegation led by Mr. Hassan Belkoura of the
Prime Minister's Office, and concluded in Rabat on May 4-10, 1979. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Kingdom of Morocco - Second Water Supply Project"
(No. 2410a-MOR dated May 18, 1979) is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The primary objective of the project is to improve access to safe
water supplies of the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Agadir
area by (a) meeting increased water demand in these regions; (b) establishing
a revolving fund within each of the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Sale and
Kenitra to help finance the installation of house connections for low-income
customers; and (c) assisting ONEP to become a more efficient institution.
37.       The project consists of four main components:  (i) the expansion
of bulk water production and transmission facilities along the Mid-Atlantic
Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission facil-
ities for the Greater Agadir area; (iii) funds for credit facilities to
finance house connections of the low-income population in the project area;
and (iv) studies. The expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast is the logical expansion of the
existing system to fully utilize still untapped storage capacity behind the



- 11 -
Bou Regreg dam. These additional facilities would include the construction
of two booster pumping stations along the existing transmission pipeline,
a raw water pumping station with a capacity of 5 m3/sec., a 2.83 km pressure
main linking the pumping station at the foot of the Bou Regreg dam with
the treatment plant, a 5 m3/sec. treatment plant, a 2 km transmission main to
Rabat, and an 82 km transmission main to Casablanca. The completion of this
second transmission main was foreseen for 1985 at the time of appraisal of
the first water supply project (Loan 850-MOR). Water demand along the Mid-
Atlantic Coast, however, has increased faster than anticipated, and, according
to recent estimates, the second pipeline to Casablanca should be operational
in 1982. The Agadir component would consist mainly of: (i) equipping the
existing Ahmar Boudhar well field with pumps and ancillary equipment; (ii)
constructing a transmission pipeline to Agadir and a treatment plant at Sidi
Bou Shab; and (iii) installing power transmission lines to the well field and
the treatment station.
38.       The project would establish within each of the regies of Casablanca
(RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED) and Keni:ra (RAK) a revolving fund which would provide
credit facilities to new low-income customers to cover the payment of house
connection and contribution towards the extension of the distribution system.
It is expected that by the end of 1983, about 48,000 house connections will
be installed under the project.
39.       The proposed water resource and water management study for the
Greater Agadir area should provide for a rational planning and water alloca-
tion between various users. Consulting services would also be provided to
ONEP to improve treatment techniques, related training, final design, prepara-
tion of tender documents and construction supervision. An estimated 1,200
man-months of such assistance would be provided at an average cost of $6,500
per man-month. Finally the proposed water supply sector study would review
the sector organization, the investment decision process and update the first
country-wide water tariffs study.
Project Area and Population Served
40.       The proposed project will cover two different areas in Morocco:  the
Mid-Atlantic Coast between Casablanca and Kenitra, and the Greater Agadir area
in the South. The Mid-Atlantic Coast, with a population of 2.9 million or 18
percent of the total population, comprises four major cities: Casablanca,
Rabat, Sale and Kenitra as well as a number of interlying smaller towns and
villages. Approximately 2.75 million inhabitants live in the urban agglomera-
tions which account for about 40 percent of the total urban population. With
an overall annual growth of 4.6 percent, the population between Casablanca and
Kenitra is expected to reach 5.2 million by 1990. The Greater Agadir area,
with a population of about 200,000 inhabitants, consists of the cities of
Agadir and Inezgane and the rural centers of Ait Melloul and Tikiouine. The
economic activity of the area is based on its natural resources and tourism
because of its location in a climatic zone with agreeable winter temperatures.
The area population is expected to grow to 465,000 by 1990, representing a
7 percent annual increase.
41.       While most of the water consumed along the Mid-Atlantic Coast is
produced by ONEP, three autonomous regies in charge of water distribution



- 12 -
assure its distribution in Casablanca, Rabat-Sale, and Kenitra. The inter-
lying towns and villages are served by ONEP directly. As the regies finance
practically all their investments out of internally generated funds and
customer contributions, expansion of the distribution system has so far not
benefitted much the low-income group of the population, which was often
unable to make rather large cash payments required at the time of connection.
Only 53 percent of Casablanca's population is therefore connected to the
system, 61.5 percent in Rabat, 45 percent in Sale and 50 percent in Kenitra.
ONEP is in charge of water production and distribution in the Greater Agadir
area with the exception of Tikiouine which manages its own water production
and distribution system.
42.        About one million of the 2.9 million inhabitants of the Mid-Atlantic
Coast live at income levels below the 1978 urban poverty threshold of DH 692
($181) per household per month. The majority of these urban poor, 750,000,
who live in shantytowns, are not connected to the water distribution system
and depend on standpipes for their water supply. About half of the 345
multiple faucet standpipes in Casablanca, Rabat, Sale and Kenitra are located
in the squatter areas, and have to serve 750,000 inhabitants, or an average of
4,000 inhabitants per standpipe. Walking distance to the standpipes often
exceeds 500 m, and, as a result, in most cases only the minimal water demand
is satisfied. In contrast to the squatter areas, service levels for the other
250,000 urban poor along the Mid-Atlantic Coast can be upgraded through the
installation of individual house connections provided that adequate arrange-
ments are made to finance the installation charges. The proposed project
would provide part of the financial assistance required.
43.        Increasing the number of standpipes in the shantytowns and extending
the number of house connections would have an important impact on the urban
poor in the project area. In order to ensure adequate service levels by such
public facilities in the project area, assurances have been obtained from the
Government during negotiations that it shall cause the municipalities to
expand the network of standpipes, consonant with the reasonable needs of the
population served by such facilities (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(f)).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
44.        The total cost of the project is estimated at $182.5 million equiva-
lent with a foreign exchange component of $82.3 million (45 percent). The
estimated costs of the various project items are given in detail in the Loan
and Project Summary. Physical and price contingencies would amount to $38.2
million or 21 percent of total project cost. Custom duties and local taxes
are included in the base costs. The proposed Bank loan of $49 million would
be made to the Moroccan Government which would on-lend, on the same terms as
the Bank loan, $39.5 million to ONEP, $4.25 million to the Regie of Casablanca
(RAD), $2.85 million to the Regie of Rabat-Sale (RED), and $1.4 million to the
Regie of Kenitra (RAK) to finance house connections of low-income customers.
The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ONEP
would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01). The Bank loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4 years
of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. ONEP would assume the
foreign exchange risk for $39.5 million and the Government for the remainder.



- 13 -
45.       The Bank loan would finance 36 percent of total project cost (net of
taxes and duties) and would cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of all
project items, with the exception of the Bou Regreg-Casablanca transmission
pipeline, which the Federal Republic of Germany is prepared to finance. The
foreign exchange cost of this component amounts to about $33.3 million or 24.5
percent of tLual project cost (net of taxes and duties). The Government has
also confirmed that it would provide the substitute funds necessary for
successful completion of the Project, should the German co-financing not
materialize. The Bank would have the right to suspend its loan, if external
borrowing for the Bou Regreg-Casablanca transmission pipeline is not effective
by June 30, 1980. The Loan Agreement (Section 5.01(f)) also includes the
standard provisions of cross-suspension and cross-default used in connection
with co-financing. The Fonds d'Equipement Communal (FEC), an autonomous
public corporation, has agreed to lend to the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Sale
and Kenitra $8.5 million to cover the local cost component of the proposed
fund for house connections. Lending agreements between FEC and the three
regies as well as subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and the
three regies should be executed by all parties concerned on or before June 30,
1980, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01(e)). The Government would provide ONEP with $90.4 million over
the period 1979-1983 as an equity contribution to ONEP's capital. During
negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the Government that it will
make this amount available to ONEP, and, if necessary, will provide additional
funds needed to cover any cost overruns ONEP cannot meet (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(d)).
Project Implementation
46.       The project would be executed in the years 1979 through 1983.  ONEP
would be responsible for the construction of the bulk water production and
transmission facilities on the Mid-Atlantic Coast and in Greater Agadir. The
Hydraulics Department of the Ministry of Equipment would be in charge of the
water resources study in Agadir, and the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Sale
and Kenitra would be responsible for the installation of house connections.
Construction supervision will be performed partly by ONEP and partly by
consultants. Although ONEP's staff has acquired reasonable experience in
this field, additional assistance is required for a proper implementation of
the more specialized project components.
47.       In order to avoid water shortages in Casablanca as well as in
Agadir, the booster-pumps on the existing Bou Regreg-Casablanca transmission
pipeline, and the Ahmar Boudhar well field near Agadir should both be opera-
tional at the latest in June 1980. ONEP, therefore decided, with the Bank's
concurrence, to initiate in January 1979 international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Contracts are expected
to be let in May 1979, and retroactive financing of about $1.6 million is
recommended for this advance contracting.
48.       Each of the regies of Casablanca, Rabat-Sale and Kenitra would
operate, as separate account, a revolving fund for house connections. The
regies would administer the sub-loans, collecting repayment and interest
charges from the borrowers. The following eligibility criteria would be
applied: (i) proof that monthly family income is less than $262 equivalent;



- 14 -
(ii) no commercial activity on premises; (iii) location in a zone classified
as either densely population or low-income housing area; (iv) economic type
or traditional style of construction; (v) diameter of water meter not exceed-
ing in principle 20 mm; and (v) owner occupancy with the exception of tradi-
tional multi-family dwellings. To ensure that the urban poor benefit to the
maximum extent possible from this operation, at least 40 percent of all
connections installed in each year under this program should be for families
with a monthly income of less than $181. A repayment period of up to 5 years
and a maximum quarterly payment of $26 would ensure affordability. The
interest rate charged to the beneficiaries would be the same as that charged
on the Bank loan.
49.       No major problems of land acquisition are anticipated.  In fact,
ONEP has already acquired all the land needed for future extension of the
existing Bou Regreg treatment plant, as well as for the laying of the pressure
main and the transmission pipeline to Casablanca.
Procurement and Disbursements
50.       All major contracts totalling about $62.5 million, for which the Bank
would finance the foreign exchange component, would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
A preference limited to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or
the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to domestic manufac-
turers in the evaluation of bids. Contracts let by ONEP for civil works
less than $800,000 and for equipment and materials less than $100,000 and all
aggregating to no more than $4 million, would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with ONEP's procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank and which permit participation by foreign bidders. The installa-
tion of house connections would be carried out by the regies of Casablanca,
Rabat-Sale and Kenitra on force account. Materials used for installing the
house connections and extending the distribution system (costing about $11.2
million) would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with the regies' procedures which are acceptable to the Bank and
would include international notification; these contracts would be subject
to ex-post review by the Bank. The Office National de l'Electricite (ONE)
would install for the account of ONEP the electricity supply line to the
Ahmar Boudhar well field and the treatment plant, costing $2.6 million, in
accordance with local procurement procedures for public contracts, which
are acceptable to the Bank. The supply and installation of the Bou Regreg-
Casablanca transmission pipeline would be procured and funded under parallel
financing.
51.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over four years (FY1980-FY1984)
against:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of directly
imported equipment and materials;
(b) 58 percent of the cost of locally procured imported
equipment;



- 15 -
(c) 55 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment;
(d) 38 percent of the total expenditures for civil works
construction;
(e) 100 percent of the foreign costs of consulting services
and 45 percent of local expenditures for consultants
domiciled in Morocco; and
(f) 50 percent of the total expenditures for work on force
account.
Organization and Staffing of ONEP
52.       The "Office National de l'Eau Potable" (ONEP), was created in 1972
to replace the "Regie des Exploitations Industrielles" (REI) previously in
charge of bulk water production. Its responsibilities as a bulk water supplier
have been progressively extended over the whole country. ONEP's Board is
chaired by the Minister of Equipment, and comprises twenty members representing
interested Ministries, regional assemblies and some regies. The overall
control exercised by the Government covers major decisions such as approval of
investment and operating budgets, borrowings, tariff levels, but does not
affect ONEP's operational autonomy.
53.       A new organizational structure, developed by consultants (financed
under the first water supply project) and approved by the Prime Minister, has
recently been implemented. Under the new structure, the deputy general
manager supervises the daily operations of ONEP and the inspector general is
responsible for operational control and internal audit. A special planning
unit attached to the general manager's office is in charge of long-range
planning. ONEP's head office is organized in five departments responsible for
(i) operation and maintenance; (ii) detailed planning and execution of small
to medium sized projects; (iii) detailed planning and execution of large
projects; (iv) administration, personnel training, legal and support services;
and (v) finance and accounting. The new accounting system, which management
consultants developed for ONEP, includes billing, cost accounting, cash flow
projections, budgeting and inventory controls, together with appropriate
procedures. Assurances have been obtained from ONEP during negotiations that
ONEP would continue to employ consultants for implementing the new accounting
system, which should be in full operation by December 31, 1979 (Project
Agreement, Section 3.03).
54.       ONEP employed 2,353 people at the end of 1978; conditions of service
are satisfactory and salaries adequate. ONEP has, within the scope of the
first water supply project, established a training center which offers one
to two years training courses for mechanics, treatment plant operators and
equipment specialists. By 1982, the training program should be fully imple-
mented and would provide ONEP with 120 graduates annually.



- 16 -
ONEP's Financial Position
55.       ONEP's equity capital has been provided by the Government in the
form of assets turned over to ONEP at its creation in 1972 and by further
contributions to ONEP's development programs since that time. ONEP enjoys a
large degree of operational autonomy, though major financial decisions are
subject to Government approval. Practically all of the water distributed by
ONEP is metered. Bulk water sales account for about 78 percent of total
revenues and the remaining 22 percent are from retail customers. New customers
pay for the cost of the connection, contribute to the capital cost of the
distribution networks and deposit an advance payment covering about three
months of water sales.
56.       ONEP incurs, through the operation of water supply systems in
about 80 rural centers (see para. 30), sizable losses which cannot be absorbed
by its bulk water operations in other areas. The Government is providing a
special annual contribution of DH 5 million to cover part of the costs of
these operations, but this special contribution will cease at the end of 1981.
Instead of making direct payments to ONEP to cover the operating losses of the
rural centers, which may reach DH 22 million in 1979, the Government makes
substantial contributions to ONEP's investment program. For 1979, DH 100
million have been allocated and for 1980, DH 146 million. Part of the funds
provided by the Government towards ONEP's investment program originates in the
sector through taxes levied on water sales. These taxes, which are paid by
water consumers, exceed the losses incurred by ONEP in providing water supplies
to the rural centers. To the extent that these taxes are retained in or
brought back into ONEP for its development, it is reasonable to admit them as
revenues for the calculation of ONEP's rate of return. With these taxes
treated as revenues, ONEP achieved a rate of return of 2.3 percent in 1977,
and 2.7 percent in 1978 on its net fixed assets in operations in compliance
with the financial covenant under the First Water Supply Project (Loan 850-MOR).
57.       ONEP's present tariff structure and rates were introduced in October
1977 following a comprehensive study of the cost of developing future water
resources. The study was part of the first water supply project and covered
the whole country. Production and distribution tariff levels were proposed by
consultants on the basis of the long-term development cost of future water
sources in different areas. To maintain the envisaged ratio of self-financing
and cost recovery through the covenanted rate of return, the study also recom-
mended annual adjustments of tariffs for inflationary increases. Although
such an adjustment has not yet been made this year, ONEP, which has managed to
reduce its operating costs since late 1978, in compliance with the Government's
austerity program, would be able to achieve in 1979 a 2 percent rate of return.
58.       However, future tariff increases, primarily for adjustments of
operating costs will become necessary. The magnitude of these increases will
depend to a large extent on ONEP's ability to control operating expenses,
particularly in the rural centers, and to provide water of acceptable quality
at reasonable cost along the Mid-Atlantic Coast. While the latter should be
accomplished through the proposed technical assistance (para. 39), assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that ONEP would start at the latest



- 17 -
January 1, 1980 a study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
to determine ways of increasing its operating efficiency, in particular in
the rural centers (Project Agreement, Section 3.03(c)).
59.       The existing rate of return covenant under Loan 850-MOR commits ONEP
to achieve an annual rate of return of 2 percent for the period 1977-1980,
and 7 percent in 1981 and thereafter. This covenant was established on the
basis of projections prepared in 1972, when it was assumed that ONEP would
take over a private concession which supplied about 63 million m3 per year to
Casablanca. The Government, however, has decided for the time being not
to exercise the right to acquire this concession. Its takeover by ONEP would
have improved its profitability and would have added more than I percentage
point to ONEP's rate of return. This, together with the envisaged tariff
adjustments and the offsetting Government contributions referred to in para.
56, would have enabled ONEP to meet the covenanted rate of return of 7 percent
by 1981. It seems, therefore, reasonable to require only a 5 percent rate of
return in 1981 while applying the existing covenant of 7 percent from 1982
onwards (Project Agreement, Section 4.03(a)).
60.       The financial projections suggest that ONEP's debt service coverage
will not drop below 1.7 from 1980 onwards. The existing commitment to obtain
Bank approval before incurring any long-term debt unless net income is at
least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any future year would also be
reaffirmed (Project Agreement, Section 4.04). Agreement has also been reached
with ONEP during negotiations on a quarterly reporting system of key indicators
pertaining to ONEP's technical, financial and administrative performance
(Project Agreement, Section 2.05(b)).
61.       Although Government decrees were issued in 1976 and 1977 to facilitate
and expedite the repayment of arrears, collection from Government agencies and
some regies and municipalities has deteriorated over the years. To resolve
the matter, the Government has recently settled all the arrears which its
agencies, the regies of Marrakech and Safi and the Municipality of Sale owed
to ONEP for water sales prior to June 1, 1978. The Government has also agreed
to take all measures necessary to ensure the payment of water bills within 120
days of their presentation by its departments, municipalities and agencies
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.05).
Project Benefits and Urban Poverty Impact
62.       About 20 percent of the country's total population and over 40 per-
cent of its urban dwellers live in the project area. Existing water produc-
tion facilities can assure sufficient supply only to 1980 while less than 50
percent of the population is connected directly to the distribution system.
The proposed project would help ONEP to meet the projected water demand along
the Mid-Atlantic Coast until 1989 and in the Greater Agadir area until 1986
when additional facilities will have to be put into operation. Appproximately



- 18 -
300,000 inhabitants living at or below the urban poverty threshold in the
project area along the Mid-Atlantic Coast would directly benefit from the
project through the establishment of a revolving fund to finance house
connections. This would provide water to about 85 percent of the poverty
group living in zones accessible to house connections in the four cities
served by the project. An additional 900,000 persons living in the shantytowns
where the installation of house connections is not feasible would have their
access to safe water improved through the planned expansion of the standpipes
network.
63.       The project would also strengthen ONEP's management, its financial
performance and project implementation capability. The establishment of
ONEP as an efficient and well-managed institution continues to be one of the
primary objectives of the Bank's involvement in the sector. Implementation
of the new accounting system, based on the recommendations of the management
study financed under the first project, would be a significant step towards
achieving this objective.
64.       The proposed project is the least cost alternative for meeting water
supply needs in the project area. The estimated internal financial rate of
return of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Agadir components is 8 percent; were
such benefits as health and environmental improvement quantifiable, the eco-
nomic return would certainly be higher.
Project Risks
65.       Measures to be taken to ensure satisfactory project completion are
those normally found in a typical water supply project. With close monitoring
of project progress and the assistance of consultants to supervise construc-
tion, implementation should pose no major problems. ONEP, has shown under the
first project that it could perform satisfactorily. The project, therefore,
poses no special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Office National de
l'Eau Potable (ONEP) and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



- 19 -
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANMEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MOROCCO                                                   /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            659.9 /f                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      157.8                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   190.0       290.0     570.0            1438.5      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      148.0        180.0     274.0            816.7       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         11.6         14.8      17.7.                          .            .
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3          32.2      39.5             45.8        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        26.0         33.0      39.0 /g          23.2        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAI LAND      61.0         74.0     112.0            112.4        95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3         46.4      45.8             46.0        44.9        42.9
15-64 YES.                          51.7         51.1      51.6             50.6        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.0          2.9       2.6              3.3         3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6          2.4       2.4              2.9         2.7          2.5
URBAN                               6.4          4.0       4.8              5.0         8.8         4.7
CNUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.4         49.2      44.5             45.0        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.2         18.5      13.4             13.7        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4 /h       3.4       3.3              3.4         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1      68.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           3.0       5.4             14.7        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             118.7        100.0      86.0            107.1       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRDEENTS)                    90.0        102.0     108.0             99.2        99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         64.0      70.5             63.4        56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         14.0 /i   15.6             16.4        17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..          ..         ..              ..         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    45.4          50.4      53.0             53.7        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)               149.0 /h        ..     130.0             77.7        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         51.0         ..            59.1        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                ..         92.0         ..            85.9        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                 ..        28.0         ..            38.0        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        29.0         ..            64.3        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                ..         75.0         ..            94.5        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                ..          4.0         ..            27.7        25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9700.0 /h  12650.0   12400.0            4271.6      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       2820.0    1500.0           2077.4      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             680.0        660.0     710.0            580.2       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                ..        460.0        ..            310.0       278.4       229.6
RURAL                                ..       2980.0        ..               ..      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         15.5       16.5             22.0       19.2         22.1
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8          5.5         ..             5.4          ..          5.2
URBAN                               4.3          4.9         ..              ..          ..          5.0
RURAL                               5.1          5.8         ..              ..          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.2          2.4                          ..         ..          2.0
URBAN                               2.1          2.1         ..              1.8        2.3          1.5
RUJRAL                              2.3          2.6         ..              ..          ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY 'PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.0/4         ..         ..            40.3        28.3         64.1
URBAN                              85.4 /       68.4      55.0               ..          ..         67.8
RURAL                              31.0 /1        ..         ..            12.2        10.3         34.1



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        "age  2  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERESCE GROLPS (ADrCSTED AVERAGES
MOROCCO                                                 __
- MOST RECENT ESTIMAT:)
SAME        SAME     NEXT hiGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 / ESTIMATE 'b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL"'hT RATIOS
PRIMAPY:     TOTAL                 47.0        52.0       65.0            80.8       75.8         99.8
PEMALE               27.0         37.0      47.0             61.8       67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   5.0        13.0       17 0            23.6       17.7         33.8
FEMALE                2.0          7.0      12.0             18.2       12.9        29.8
VOCA,IONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)..             2.0       3.0              6.7        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHEP RATIO
PRLMARY                            43.0        34.0      40.0             31.5       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                            ..        20.0      22.0             22.3       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        17.0        21.0       28.0            50.1        63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSE%GFR OARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0        15.0      18.0             14.5        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         46.0        60.0      77.0            125.8       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4        11.0      23.0             34.5       14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ( DA.LY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULA-ION PER
THOUSAND POP'LATION                  22.0        16.0       14.0            17.4        16.3        45.2
CISEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..        1.6             1.6         1.6         4.6
IOTAL LABOR Ft?CE (THOUSANDS)      3250.0    . 3980.0    4930.0
FEMALE (PERCEUr)                   10.6        15.2      19.0              9.3       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.4        49.9      42.5             42.0       54.1         46.2
INDTSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.3        14.9      18.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                28.0        26.3      27.0             26.9       37.8         33.8
YALE                                 50.1        44.5       44.4            46.6        50.3        48.1
FEDALE                                5.9         8.0       10.3             5.3       20.9         17.3
ECONOMGC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.0         1.9        1.8             1.9         1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTR'SIJTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED RT
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   18.0 /k      20.0 /k      ..              ..        19.5        23.6
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  43.3 /k      49.0 /k      ..              ..       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    7.0 /k       4.0 /k      ..              ..        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.0 /k      12.0 /k      ..              ..       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TAIGET GROUPS
ESTIMATE ) ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0       157.0      288.0              ..       155.9       191.9
RURAL                              66.0       101.0      174.0           i42.0        97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      189.0           236.1       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..           144.7       87.3        197.7
EST IMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              59.0        39.0      34.0             21.5        22.9        19.8
RURAL                              49.0        45.0      45.0             37.4       36.7         35.1
Not availlable
Not appilcable.
NOTES
j     The adjuated group averages for e-ch indicator are popultion-veighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values cf the indicator snd the mo-t populated country in each g:oup.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforx.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweeo 1969
and 1971; snd for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Jc    Norri  Africa & Middle East;  /d   Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capEta, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Iccome (555t-135 per rapita, 1976);    Lf  Including Moroccan provinces tn Western Sahara;  Li Excludes
Moroccan provinces in W. Sahara;   /h  1962;  LI  Av. 1964-66;  Li  Brick building  mnly;   /k  Consu-ption
expenditures of houscholds.
SeptenSer. 1978



- 22 -
ANNEX I
pirwTo   of AML           rIATage   3   of   6
MU: The adj u.ted group avareges foe Oath Indicator are p.9.sleos-weighted gemecric mesas. excluding the extraese al.es of the Indicator &ad toe DOst
populatead Counry in each grosa. Coverage of cesatries mwg the isdicartos depends on avollsbilLty of data cad is mot uniiform. Due to lack of dat*,
group aversoe. for Capital  "I"la  O11 Zaporters cad ledictetrs of access to wets: and excesta disposal. housing. into     distribution cand poverty are
siaple population-veighted geometric cesas without the eaclasio of eatrem value..
LA"  As     (the-sand  *4. k                                                                 euaic    e   oaia   e4- tl  urhm. cad rual - Population  (total.
9SL- Total surface area co.prieim    lead area end inlasal ratars..uba                               drrl)diedbthr ragpetive ssfber of hospital beds
A,tutvl- Hoget receat astlaste of agricultural area used tamorsrlly                    ava ilable in public and privaet  laePral and sP-cisicd ho-pita. t1             e
or pera"Dme cati  for cro ps. pastures. markat and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitotion centsrs.  Hospitals are establisuhments ,..ac
lefall"m.                                                                                 at least oe phtysician.  tEstablisbments provldlcg principally cuocadlai
care are noat included, Rural hospitals, hos,gver, Includa health end .odi-
GNfP Pgt CAPITA (U55) - GNP per capita  estimates at current mrrhat pri:ce.                     'al centers not p.rmanstly  ronfead by a phyesician (but by . nediool .e-
calc'ulated by  exe.. cvevrsion method .c World leak Atlas (1975-77 basIs);                 dis ent, nurse, midwife. sec.) which offer ic-patient acumoodavo- and
1960, 1970, end 1977 data,                                                                  provide a Ilmited range of medical facilities.
AdmissionsPer hospital bad - Total number of admissions to or di-aharge.
*ZI0Y COUISUOTCOP PER CAItTA - Annual Coneumption of osmeectial aMargy                          rO. hopteals divided by the oumber of bads..
(Coal sod lignite. petroleum, natucral ga and hydro-. ouclsar aod gee-
thanmal electricity) is kilogrAas of coal equialengt p.. Capita.ROSN
Averges oels of household (eersons per bomsehoLi) - total, urban.end rural -
POULTINA houSehold cfomeats of s group of individuals  fto share. Iving quarters
_                Ftal  ltion  -   1 - AS Of JUly 1; If net available,                 end their main meals.  A boarder or lodgsr mey or my not So included 1n
U"-ya  estimates  1940, 1970, sod 1977 data,                                                 the houasehold for statlectlcl purpoeas.  StatIstical definitions of bo...-
Ifrbage ofultio   sadeo  of total) - tecl. of urban to total pepuls-                         hOld vary.
ion;  diffarest deftaitions af urban areas may affect comperebility                      AvsTsg  watCer Of persoaw  Doc room - total, arben. and rural - Average cn-m
of data among countries,                                                                    her of porsoas pot cme in all, urban, end rural occupied conventIona.
Ptnulation d4"tty                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~dwellings, respectively.  Swellinee exclude oon-penomenst structures and
Per  as., km, - Mid-year population Per square kilomster (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts..
o:f total ores.                                                                           Acises to electricity, (prcet of. dslltsas) - totl, urban, and rural -
Prs.h . arCulture laud - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional 'Iwellioswtheetrct   i   sn   oatermeas percancag.
only,                                                                o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f total. urban,  md rrl dwelIlngs respectively.
Poolt onas   tructur*s (prcnt   - Children (0-li years), werklng-ege
(15-Ad pees)   en       itd(5 years and over) as percentage* of mid-                   EDUCATIONI
pear population. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fr ,:
Poplaio p`'grotb rte (Perccent) - total. end urban - CoMmpod annual                        Prmrr        ool -total7. gd fml       oa   n   easerlmn    fale
crouth rates of total end urban sid-ysar P.PalAtio.. for 1950-60,                           sr tho primary level a. parrentage of ...esatcively pri-ay ochool-aq
1960-70,  and 1970-75.                                                                      popalatloas:  normally includas children agod h-1l yers but adjusted for
Crude birth race (per thousea). - Annual live births per thoscand of                          different lengths of primary- education; for countries with universal ads-
aid-year population,; tnya   rithmgtic averages  ending in 1960 and                         cation enrollmenst may eaceed. 100 osr.amt skace eon  pupils are below, or
POand nycper aerge cding, is  1970for metreet estimate.                                 above the Official school age.-
Crude deathrts(r thosndL                  Annual deaths Per thusand of mid-                 Secondary school - toctal, and fmale - Cuaputed as above; secondary educa-
yerpopulatiso; ten"pear arithmatli average  anding in 1960 and 1970                      tin  rmquiree at least  four Jeqer  of aptrovd primary instruction; Pro-
an  fv-eraeaecdnin17fomotrcn                                 titecidea general vca-tioeai, or. -tascher training iasrructioas  for pupila
Groes  reproduction rae. - Ave,&$* number of daughtoer  a wman, will hear                     usually of 12 to 17 yeare of ege; Correspondenca  cruroes are %enerall,
Lu cr  -ua   -eProductive Period if  bsh  experieneso prsent age-                         sacludd.
e LcificfrtiLIty vr. ta; uc_lly five-year  -r-rg.e aedi.g In 1960.                       octnl  aIsnt (Percent of aeocdard (-Vcainllnztcin   c
1970. and 1975.                                                                             clods technical, industrial, or other -,,Sorass  ohich operate  ocovocs
F-iIly plas-ill - acceo-ocs. aannua  (thou-sad) - Annual number 00                            Or as departments ot secondary institutions.              suet
acco ptoro of .ir,b-Dateo    -Itcs  under auspices of national family                   PuDil-tesaber ratio -  r7r' adecncr     oa  suet   rr'ldi
planin   prgrm                                                                              primary and secondar  lev"ls divde   bynoea  trahe.-    .crs
Featly o1..Lannn      sr  (parc...t of married semen) - P.rc oee                               pond iog lev-ls.
srarrcec  voeso of ch'ld-bearing age (15-i4 years) ohs use birgth-'control              Adult literacy rate tpercent) - Literate adults (.blp to read and  -Iti, as
devices to allIneriad uomen in nas  age gcoup,                                              a Percentage of total adult population  aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NIUTRITION                                                                       c0NlsyiA@ oT
lndex of fond prod"c-ion per cepita(1701001    Ind C a mbojner of per                     Passuengr cars (porC huadpopulatio) - Passenger caren comprise motor oars
Capita annea  production Of al  fon  o          dti.s.                                     aaig lees then eighteros    amsun  amulances.   aarsa  and ailicary
Per camta susl  of calrisa (percent of reeuirmotsl  - CoMputed from                         vehlicl.s
energy equivalent of net food supplies  "ailable in coantry per capita                  Ladic receivers (per thousand poooultioul - All types of receivers for rail,,
par day.  Available seppli.. comopriss domestic productIon, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of poulIcion; ..cldade  unllcanee-
'cote.  sod changee in stock.  Net supplies soclude amisal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and Ln years chap registration  of radio sets was in
qusIt!-ie   used in fond processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; dots for recent years asy not be comparsuls eiocs mast co...ntries
quirsoment  wore estimated by PFA0 based on physiological seeds for nor-                  aholiahed licesning.
ui aCtiv ity and health considering environmntal cenperatura.  body                     TV receivers (per thousand 9opuletion) - TV re-ivere  for broadcast tc apotent.
wei ghts.,as  and san disctributions of popuIatisne  and alwn   if Per-                     public per thousand population; _ecludes  -ulic .n..d TV reevesi  :oun-
Cent for  wa tec household Level.                                                           cries snd in years when registration of TV oset  vs. in offoct.
'cc capita :uppl, ofprotein (sroma per day) - Protein cootsot of per                       Newspaer circultion  (pe  thueed                          Shuatn)-duov  the average dccir--
:.pita oct supply of loond per day.  Pot .opply of fond is defined usco-f"al  aeceral interest nesapr. dined as a p-si.dicu t-                                               (
ano's - iaqjiet, for all Countriss establs.hed by USDA provide for                          Cetio=  devoted prImarIly cc recording general news.  It cs coas.id.rad t
La sinua" loaoIece vf 6i gruas of total prcteln per day sod 20 grass                      he  'daily" if it appears at Leeser four class a wash.
of animal and pulse, protein, of chico  .0 gram   should be acnial protein.             Cinema annul attendance per ..Pit. Par year - Pa..ed on cbs cubhr of ti-kstc
..ese standards are lower then chose of 75 gras  of.total protein and                       sold during tbs year. iecluding  damiesiona  to dr iv-ic cinemas ape vobils
3gass of snimal protin. as an .v.r.g. tor the  word,  propose.d by                       uio
Vhf in ',he Thicd World Food Survy
_s caIta  rotein  upl   rom  animl and pulse-Poansupp ly of fond                       OCLOflUIfT
donned  from  aneal  and P'ie  in Sres  per day.                                        Total labor force (thousend)a - tcvnOenAlly aCtivepro-             includI.g o-reed
t-hid (age   1-) prtelit, re1Te (r thlousand) - Annual deeths Per thous-                      forces and ruonLoye= bt selding hoawv                    t-osots, occ.  JD.ni.-
.and In age group 1-4 years. ta Children in this age group.                                 tions in venou   coun...tries ar.e  not  oparable.
'eale (prcet   - Female laser force as pecnaou  total labor fors..
iiEaL!%en            tAgricultur  (percent)  - Labor force in, farming, forestry.  hunting and fishing
Life  xetnya  birch (years) - Average amnb.r of yearse of life                                as percentage of total labor forces.
remaining at birth; usually  five-year ava.age. ending in 1960. 1970,                   Indusr   orst  - Labor force in min ,coi                 rutonnagfctrn   and
and 1975.                                                                                   slectnl:irty- mtier and gas as percentage of total labor forte.
Infant mortality rtec  (puc thousad)    Andnual deache of isf.ats o-d.r                    Pstcpao    es(Prcent) - total, mal. oad (seals - Tonal.  -l., and
ooe  ear  f ag  pe  thoeandliv   birhte.                                            '.seals labor fort  aa 1.Percentace   of their respective  o.ltce
A,055  cv sae   atr (rcent of population) -  totl, urban, end rural -                          rhese ste flOe. ad5osd participation  r.ees refiecting .o.-e.n
Number of people (coral, urban.and rural) with reasonable access  to                         tructcrs of rh. orpulatios. ond long rinse trend.
s-fe wtrupplp(                    satueeceard surfac  ccao.-sorb,rh untreatd hot         tunncdependency ratio - iatio  of populatijon  unoor 10 arod hO and ever 
unCootaistad :C.s  such  Catht fcon proteCtedi b               Iels., springs.              the labor force in age gr-cp ci 15-64 yan
ond ...chcory  _ello)  _aa   .. pretages oftheir repecive povo.laclo..
Th onubn-aa .public feuntain or Standposc bus.ted rot care                             INCOME I lTttOt'710
coon ZOO eatersfroe      u boos  may heuonsiderd asbeng tihin ree-                       ysrcent.ze of Privats income (both in cah and hind) received be rtchcat 
-o,abIo acce   of that h'c..:   Icr rura  areas reaaooahis acc..  woud                      p.rrent. richest 20 percent. poorest 20 paro...t. and p-orse  -3 percoor
cyytro i5c pr        owio   r cmet  of ch   --ushod dv nb   aec                           f ho...aholds.
nodadipootoaeprofteday In retching the family's
uter needs_.                                                                             POVEToY -ARGET GROCPt
Acuna  o nurea lsosal(necen  ofooolalon  -  ota, uban  ad               Estimated sbanlut. Povert, income level (US$ P.,p capit.) - -rban and  .rurl
oral- fahe  ofpsale  total. urbac,'!and rural.s!      e   yeart                       Absoluepoat  cooa  ee  is that income level bsiow  which aocc
dispsal  s ceosnspssof teirreepcniv   poplatons. focrre               utritionally adequa_te die:t Ipu  essenil non-food requIrements  .n oct
ilupoa  nay. inld   tbs Collection. and disposal, with or without                           affordable.
trsatnc...t  of  umac encreta and  -oste--et-  by senor-horns  ypeteni                   IstistLd relative  .overtt  iLcome loel (US$ Per c-pita) - urban and  oo
orche  -n  of yit  -rivias ad cinilar intllton.lativ-  pon..rty L                                                     Inc .-lya  ie chat Incams  level issa  chat ocs-third
Vopuatln pe  phsiulp  -Population. div ided.by vaheor of practicing                    per Capita personal inomne of the country.
c)yscic.an  1oLified from  a sedluvi school at unluereity level .                         oiatd popul'ation below  poverty incons level (Percent) - 'rhan and r'cral-
n.ulution par  -ursin   parso.. Pouato   divided by nuomber  f                                Porrn  of. populaItion (urban and rur.1)  -o  -r  ci thr "ebeolote  vno
pr-cticing  -ab  uod female graduate   usc  prcrcicai nre,and                                'rsatjve  poor" whichever is greater.
ECo....ic und Social laa tnisioni.
tEcononic knalysi  aod ProjCtion   D.partosyc



C   ft            C-   0    CC    C*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                                 COCCaZa i..t .. ..    .. 
o C. . f   ......               .......tt~e                                                                                       at     Za      t.c                Z       
-   r-.r'tSftte*ft9taaftft   -    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.... .. .                         CC.O. .       r  
C   ft  t'C  0   ftCbCOftSC..    CCftCCrCarCCt.                       CS    -   !  .0.7.0.C. .           .    C... . . 
iCC   CCC...  C    *~~~~r   C   *~Z  a....
*   ft    CtatAC  CC    C       ~               7. *0C                ....            ......b .....S C.......    ..                        .
r7                                                                    L Z.             L   I   i       :1 ilil i-C  -    a.   acc      'C
C        .         ....                   ...           C   C                Zb  .-     ..C.*.    f........(A....C.....                                .
Cr..  -  ft  CC  -   0                          bft.       SCO....                                .  .    ......            ...... .                  .
*  C.  -   C                  Zr              -                                   C~~~~~..     .. .. ..
.     ...            . ..t    ...               . .        .C                                                . . . ..   a...                               -.
.                             ...... . .                                     .... . ...                                        . . . .  .         - 
*                          -CD  t z
* I  a         C -                r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
C  ft                                   C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
.ft                                                                                                                                                            ft            ... . .......                               . ..........                             
CZ~~~                                           --*    



ANNEX I
P.ige 5 of 6
AIIAC1HENI 4A, BALANLL UF PAVMLtFIb A*I.  txftwiNAL  ASS1ISANCL
(MILt LLt3S IUF US til ILL ARSI CURHWEN I MANKE I PR ICLS)
A. ta         _ *FProJectIe   3/
1961      1972     11j~       19//      1973      19/9  .      98t0    1981      19_2                    --
A. SUMIMARY UI BALANCF UP pA1NIb                    *                                  *                         *         *AaN
1* ExP0R135   INCL. Its                        55S,o   S949.0   131,01.l/3668.oI   22bo.0  27t13.0    131eo   3924.0  4592,0   5131 .0  9506.0  I38S9,0
it  IMPOIRTS, EXCL. NES                        623.0   91O.0  3S19,U   412e.0   1954.0  le120 o            0 405 0  4502. 0  S105.0  588S30 181405.0  38buZ.0
S. RESOURCE SALAINLt                           _t5,0*   -41*0 -1bu20  -22?55.0 -1714.0   .849 0   -7e90  _576tl0  -533,0   .54b.0 -2091.0   .5 1.0
4. Of  f AC IjiF  St RVICf95                   -1,70      17.0    376.0    379.0    41b.0    361.0          Jss o    311.0    4 A.0    457.0    o66.0    911.0
q.1. N"E   INIRtS31 PAYMINIS                   -17.0    -29,0    -57,0  .129.0   -181.0  -26.0    -290.0  .119.0  .32S,0   .324,0  -_q7.0   -722.0
4,2. h NI  INYESlItzNl INCOME                  - 2.7    -28.0   -42.0    - 29.0   -54.0          -98.0   -309,0   -328,0   .112.0   .1584.   -I50,0   -1500
4.J, 4OPtbKEWS o  H'   3At0CES                  a5,0    319.0    Sq,4u    589,0    741.0    753,0           80t 0    060.0    921U    9t85,0  1IiI,.    1851.0
4,8, UTHON  (NEI)                             -_52,0    ,Ib,0    .70,0    -52.0    .84.0    .50,0           -50.0 -o O,0    -So.,   -SO.0    .50.0   ._0,0
S, CURRENT tRANSFtRS(1ttl                       130       q2,o0    69.0       52.0      40.0      48.0      S,0       55.0      5U*0       63,0      83.0    116.0
6, CURENTl  ACCt)UNI 8ALANCAf                  -420       s5.e -5.5 ,0 -3821,0 *1250.0  -484.0    -322.0   -3S2.0    .41.0    -26.0 -1 385.0    4,4.0
1, PRIVAItE DIIECI INvESLMENl (NET)              9.0      24.0      3860      53.0      53,0      70.0       7710       S5.0     91.0    102.0    I50.0    241,0
U. PUBLIC  a4 i1 L    A 1 S                        *                   a         A         a         f          f '^
6.3,  DISSUN3f0ENTS                             86,0    111.0   172.0   1271.0    192.0    621.0            966.0    91.,0    942,0   3089.0   24118 0   1569,0
6,2,  fEpA1mt&T  S                             -29.0    -186,0   -_4,0  -105.0   294.0 .o 26.0    -652,0  .789.0   _a93,0  -b55.0   -945.0 -1954,0
#J,., NEI otSIuURSE%Ls                          59,0      13.0    648,0   t16.0   4895.0    391,9           314,0    144.0        49,0    2S1,0   1466.0  -.IS. 0
9, SI'R2l ITRM CAPJIAj  (NEt)                  -1060    -32.0       2V0       60.0      -S,0                     at                   A         f                   a ft
11.WE1 USE OF 3.4F RtESOUIRCES                     0     12,0    1950            *     Jq,0      70,0         44,0    93,0       l!,o      11,0
1t, CAPIIAL 4,1E,),  2t                       .*2,0       9s.0    559.0    519.0    ble.1 0           f          f         f                              ft
2,CHANGC  IN RESERVEJ                          -19,0    -15.0   .114,0    .63.0         32. 0     3J70       6l,O      34.0    -89.0  -298,0   -268.0   .120,8
3.LtVEL OF RCUStRVES                                f         a         A         *         *                    A         A,        a          a                   a ft
1,31. AMLUNI                                    23.0    231,0    493.0    512,0    5000    48 6.0           524.0   t10.0    599,0    091.0   1016.0   3081,0
I3.2, MONS'S  IMtPuRos                           0.4       2,9       2,0       3,6       l,5       3,5         1, A      1,S       I,S       l,t       1.9       2.0
U., GRANT I LOAN CUItmIIhi'N I                                f a a                         A         a          f                    a         f         8         ft
13  OFFICIAL 53RAN1S                            25.0      31.0      I5S0      30,8          a         *          a                   a f       f          f         *
e, tOUAL  PUULIC t I Li LOANS                   o8a0    19,0   9S9'1v   19310,0   1444.0             *                              a f  f     *         *         f
2,1.  I1RPU/IDA                                  0.0      9710    150.0    36e.0    I3lJ0             *          *         f                    f ^*
2. I. ( R2 Ih4 IN'L I     |101tUIUN3t                          0  0  3.0     10.0      71.0                                         .          ft
2.3  G4vIRthItNdS                               00.0      63e,o     44,0    653.0    220,0            *          *         *                   f         f *t
2l., SUPPLIUR4S  CRtD113                            tv    16.0       8.0   13630         9,0                     a         f         f          f         f         ft
2.5. CUMonECIAL   8N0S3                             0      3,      bOStv3   It 916.0    965,4         *t                                                  ft
C. nf "U ITM *En                                     
1. GRAhN  ELEthlX)                                  ,     Jo0.6      J,S9     33,2       6.9                     t         t ^       ^         '          '
2, AVRAGI  IoNtEREOt(X)                                     5.3     7,2       7.5       1,5          .          f         f         f         ft
3, AVERAAE N6TURNIY(1I38S8                          *     22.3      II,1      30.3       1,.          *                    f         f          f         f *
1/   Including spectal sitit.ry Import payments which  ,ar tentatively *stlted by the mission *t
$590 million In 1976 and $510 siillon In 19177 .5.h 26, i919
ENitiA Ct Ik
2/   Including grant..
3/  Projectlion n re being  -Iscd by the Basic Acono.lc nMsslon.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
AI tI A r !4 Mt K I 4-1I.1  I) 1  IN/ AI, vE t1 I Lp 10 II l 1    I t i I Nt ,
Actuals                                                      Projected   i/
19        l    Q    .~                       19781A                                                    98  -       98---7 IV~
h*   ... 4j'I. K   LL  I .. ....  ..   ..  ..   ..   ...   ..   ..   ..   ...                                                               ..  ..                                                                       -------
A.il 4LjXS II. LiS LIIAHSi)                                                *            *            A            A                                                   A * iiiTA
1,  IUIAL          A        A l;.A tS t   .p9'S   i%                      '        9        a4me*.bq   3AI .'*        3907.1*)   IM',1It         I fl.-1 Zj $4,O    s s,(I                 h  (I 6    H1hbO. I I ? 9e.Q
i'i.    Ctti.inl1w   t'4 ilSJXISH I;                                       * f    jIIh/U      Zl 110 5* Ut1 .(I'  bI 25. I    7440  U t'  1it i 7tii %I   7 t               5e 1.,I   m uio 6 .I J                   4 QA 0 ,1
S,   I OtI  SF N - utt                                                hb       I ,  I         i:.        djaf i4,     4i  o        h6t? ,{     Qg. U~'   I-V^iit. V     I   11i to   I I 00  1)   I 5q?   i.     h b7h. t
I.j,  'IF  F      i   INTI t9l                                        1 7. t       S4.u         5 J, v      I d9, .     |. ( 81,  d.   S eo,      e O14'                      WS. d 9I21 0 0e'c'.I
ti.  Dl'! II   ItOt,                                                       *            A            *            A            A            ,            A            A            A            A A                       A
1.  CE"I  St'lCv II/ t AP'I A4  (I-  1  ..    s st. S                              10.           ' , I      125          ?21. ,4      d            21. I         kt .7,       27 .'s      e2a t.       t' .'F       l5
-.  DFIl  SF.  iIfIt iPI1IKS  E                      kf wtws  P i     1  7,7       931                        9, n.j  .S  26,3        J9,7        t)3 it       24           22.I            i *I       I 3.f        )3,"
3.  CEn    St b iA  11 t   u/bP                                         I            d. .), I     I ,5        e, e         3,15         b  4         6e, 6.o 671                            Y8            4.?          4,bI
C.  IWhhS                                                                  *t.i
I.  {I it    *Ii                   ljurp                                  A ft9                  e4i         5,t.         b            *9 5,V                   6e            t.Ua           o,z                       It 7,
d   nt-il  stwYICt FifF I IjR  ttl' I            'I.t                                             4.!         1".A n  ,",               Ib,b I.I    isI.                      2 S,l        dlS  I          * I,t5,
1) D ftPEt       h      a I 6 15                                           A            A            A           *             A            A            A I I                                  A            ii
1.  G.RO.SS  Ilh   S         elttlst                                  14, 1        l 4eo        Ai            S( f&b      2C,          a 22, 7       2 s,9       2O (1         1*,5          it4 ,5      21 ,2         II, 4
2.  Nf I I,llF@ju . t5FFiS/Ji 4 PIb                                     h. I         e ,e       I 4. :                    Sel.          4S           Ol         -i.i          -*5.         -ge.f           H.3       -b,b
.  Nht I tlISh./I.silSS   1)ISti                                      t 1           17.9        4i %,S       91 .          Z           Ih4            1,t -e. It14                        -1u.1          392        -I,9
f,  tA iJ StJUtL  IJA I IS S                                                             A           A             A           *                          A *                       A            A *          *
1.  4iA^    OIbI..1sX1/IIIL  I'IS".                                        *       A'1*0          c,I          %*b        11.1              A             A           A             A            A            A            A
#. iA,e    ,4tIA    lP'41L   rI                                                  eAJ*o         C..I        10.6                                                                                            It~AA   
a.~j G^SfF40Jl'- 1,1)/10tAL  i'of}O                                              I 4O. to    e.lb          IV,h   11       .                                                     It           III**     
f4 p&i   (,6IJUV  rCfi    SEW./IIAi'AL  0J1-it  981.                   A       IU,I5        15           17.9          9.S              A            A            A            A             A           A             A
(MI  ji.    1 1..    ) 1 l b                                                                                      Ab '  . F  *' Ai                                                                           A 
Outstanding Dec.3177
I,  31161                                                                  A            ,    t'C.i'         l'tX, 3                        A             A            A            A            A            A            A 
a.  ,,,^                                                                    A                    19,.          Io.             *            A                          A            A             A ^                      A
3.  IlHLt.  IhIit 'L     -I, A.F *                                                     A        i7,1          .*,                          A                          A            A            A            A *
ii.  S9)I IL-4         01141t  t S                                                      A * Iiln.O             9(.k            *            A             A            A
o.  F I"A (AtC t I    4 SI   I r t,,i's                                     A            A   11. fI.       0 IAs                            A             *                         A                          a            A
.  ItitAL    Pt'.IA.I       (.                                                                i uhl9Ht4U.                                                                                                                   a *    i  t  A  A  A  A  A  A *
ti,  ,-1 I   F'81 1 l                                                                   I
1    Total debt service  1978/82/Total DOD end  t977    1.14
1/    Projectinns  are being revised by the Basic Economic lliscion.
Wt rch   ,2!   14')7
EHE,IA'CP I II



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million
Credit                                                    Amount  (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower               Purpose           Bank       IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Eleven    Loans   Fully disbursed                          174.9
Four      Credits Fully disbursed                                      36.0
643       1969    Kingdom of Morocco   Irrigation           46.0                0.3
848       1972    CIH                    DFC (Tourism)    15.0                  1.1
850       1972    ONEP                   Water Supply       48.0                4.5
936       1973    ONE                    Power              25.0                3.6
955       1974    Kingdom of Morocco   Highway              29.0                5.6
1017       1974    Maroc-Phosphore         Industry          50.0                4.4
1018       1974    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture          32.0               12.5
1061       1974    BNDE                   DFC                30.0                5.0
555       1975    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture                     14.0    13.7
1123       1975    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture          18.5                8.4
1201       1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture          30.0               17.3
1202       1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Tourism              21.0               18.4
1220-T     1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Education            25.0               25.0
1279       1976    CIH                    DFC (Tourism)    25.0                  6.4
1299       1976    Kingdom of Morocco   Power                49.0               33.9
1361       1977    CNCA                   Agriculture        35.0               17.0
1383       1977    CIOR                    Industry          45.0                4.7
1416       1977    Kingdom of Morocco   Agriculture          41.0               40.3
1428       1977    BNDE                   DFC                45.0               44.7
S-7       1977    Kingdom of Morocco   Engineering           1.5                1.5
1528       1978    Kingdom of Morocco   Urban Develop.   18.0                   18.0
1602       1978    Kingdom of Morocco   Fes Karia Tissa  65.0                   65.0
1625       1978    Maroc-Phosphore         Industry          50.0               39.2
1681 2/    1979    Kingdom of Morocco   Education           113.0              113.0
1687 2/    1979    Kingdom of Morocco   DFC (SSI)            25.0               25.0
Total                                                 1,056.9       50.0   528.5
of which has been repaid                              130.3        0.4
Total now outstanding                                   926.6       49.6
Amount sold                    20.4
of which has been repaid    7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                          912.8      49.6
Total undisbursed                                       514.8      13.7   528.5
NOTES
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment
2/ Signed, but not yet effective
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan      Equity   Total
1962     BNDE                   Develop. Bank      --          2.7      2.7
1966     CIL                    Canning Factory  0.9           0.5      1.4
1976     Marrakech Cement       Cement Factory    --           1.3      1.3
1977     Temara Cement          Cement Factory   4.8           2.4      7.2
Total gross commitments                       5.7          6.9    12.6
less cancellation, terminations
repayments and sales                          0.9          1.2      2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC             4.8          5.7    10.5
Total undisbursed                              -           0.2      0.2



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
the major project structure, Idriss 1   Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Additional infrastructure for
the project area, including a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 848 Second Hotel Development Project; US$15 million of June 30, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: November 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Commitments and disbursements initially lagged behind expectations,
due to sluggish investment activity in 1973, but the loan is now fully com-
mitted.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: October 31,
1979.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed by Fall 1979;
training courses are presently being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff increases were implemented in October 1977, the higher revenues did
not compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has
established an interministerial commission to review the situation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 936 Power Project; US$25 million of October 5, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness: January 23, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Physical implementation of the project is complete. Savings amount-
ing to about US$3.5 million are being applied to consultant services for feas-
ibility studies, preliminary design and preparation of bid documents for 5
hydro stations required to alleviate Morocco's dependency on imported oil.
A one year postponement of the Closing Date was granted to allow payments
under these contracts. Electricity rates were increased on average by 14 per-
cent on February 1, 1978, and again by 22 percent in January 1979.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - is now almost complete and the mainte-
nance equipment and highway improvement programs are complete. Work on the
contract for technical assistance for the establishment of a Transport Plan-
ning Office in the Ministry of Public Works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1017 Phosphoric Acid Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project was mechanically completed in October 1976 and the plant
is now in commercial operation.
Ln. No. 1018  Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on sched-
ule in 1975. Construction of the project area roads is on schedule. The
Government recently requested that funds earmarked for the construction of
flood protection dykes be transferred to other infrastructure works related
to the Sebou I and II projects, in view of the high costs of such works, the
economic benefits which are less than originally estimated and the advance-
ment of the construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of
flooding. A decision on this request is under review. The study on pollution
control is now proceeding satisfactorily; however the study on the incidence
of bilharzia on the Rharb plain has yet to be started.
Ln. No. 1061 Seventh BNDE Project; US$30 million of December 30, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are roughly in line
with appraisal estimates.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 112_ Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 59 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed on about 55 percent of the project area. Works related to the
social components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are
now underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco have resulted in cutbacks
in the operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel.
While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped so far,
developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put under
irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project initially faced substantial delays in project imple-
mentation. The studies are now underway, and commitments of funds under the
project have been initiated. Project management and the coordination of
project activities between the project authority and the central offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture have improved but continue to require close
monitoring. A revised land reform and redistribution program which meets the
project's objectives is currently under preparation.
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,200 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Forestry land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by the end of 1979. The
implementation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is slow with the exception of the rural development and
extension training center, construction of which has recently started. All
sites have been selected and design development is at an advanced stage.
Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
It is expected that the overall situation will improve, and progress is being
clearly monitored by supervision missions.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 Kv transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361  Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project will cover most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term
lending through August 1979 and will include related technical assistance.
Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small
farmers, cooperatives and farmers' association. Over one half of the Bank
loan has been disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by
August 31, 1979, as scheduled.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
has started operation in January 1979.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure.
Land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in a 1 to
2 year delay in completing the project.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. The loan became effective on December 21, 1977 and
commitments as of April 30, 1979 amounted to US$29 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and a priority first stage project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. The loan became effective on August 26, 1978.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
experimental Sites and Services Housing Schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. The loan became effective on November 21, 1978,
and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a decline in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure.
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25. 1979;
Effectiveness Limit: July 25, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping
of 11 technical lycees, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project; US$25.0
million of April 25, 1979; Effectiveness Limit: July 25,
1979; Closing Date: December 31,1983.
The project consists of a two-year slice of a Government program
to assist small and labor intensive industries through policies, technical,
managerial and financial assistance.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:              About one and a half years,
from March 1977 through October
1978
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:            Office National de 1'Eau
Potable (ONEP) with consultants
assistance
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                May 1977
(d) First Bank mission to review the
project:                                       December 1977
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                 October 5, 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                     May 10, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  September 15, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
No special action necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Condition of Effectiveness:
The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and ONEP.
2.   Other special conditions are:
(a)  that the Government shall cause the municipalities in the project
area to expand the network of public standpipes, consonant with
the reasonable needs of the population served by such facilities
(para. 43);
(b)  that the Government will see to it that the water distributing
regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED), and Kenitra (RAK)
will apply a specified set of eligibility criteria when making
loans available to low income customers out of the revolving fund



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
for the charges payable at the time of installation of the house
connection (para. 48);
(c) that ONEP:
(i) will continue to employ consultants to implement the new
accounting system, and that it will see to it that this
system is implemented expeditiously in order that it is in
full operation by December 31, 1979 (para. 53);
(ii) will start by January 1, 1980 at the latest, a study to deter-
mine ways of increasing its operating efficiency, in particular
that of the rural centers (para. 58); and
(iii) will achieve until the end of 1980 a 2 percent rate of
return on its properly valued or revalued net fixed assets,
a 5 percent in 1981 and a 7 percent from 1982 onwards
(para. 59).



IBRD 3720R:
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                                     TMditgrrane Gn
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                      TAN            7
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
Economic regio  b-ud-ries
Number of economic regio-~NAO
--- Prvnce boundaries                                                                                                    AN                                      O
Rivers                                                               o               X           -=e;                                                                 r WouuE
' *R.infall ovr400-m per year                                                0                            u.       Kae0Ts
=p,,,,,O,,a,   ;;                               @                  <         <         }                         =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnr ElJD  /Mor'tr  ALGERIA
WATER DISTRIBUTION AND PRODUCTION                                                    CA. ASIDAdC                                 U                                                        ALGER
o                                      0d oJ A D I D    jS ETKAL0o   IIBuv,u                                                      Eam~I        0mr  .
~~ ~~~SAO     ~         CSA
L.I'IW0 "OEPM 'g-t    * of  ONE 0-4                  0               ;
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E\                                                                                           F     
PROJECT  AE'    iteslluc 1      -
C,~  ~                                  oE9                         DID?        E T| TKILOMETERS
This rise 000 taeu eneetmd by the                                                               0              I
SI~~~   ~~~ ,-                                                                             0 -     o   h v 
f   -ll       toi                                                     Nl
ThedennrONEP Rse -al tkrSel                                         .I                                                                                                                MY-
bunae hWnonwn oraplyss
Wol Ctur D0 u ftta. o
juduureoO on ero lepeteiutuoF upKpI
sOy territory en soy roducAueRHmRAeRuCHIDArO
or SCoteCeooe uluecti buouderes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii
rA>                                        - b1P*~   h
WWd S"k,. mff-IionTor
lbrtn                                                           I                                                                                                                         MAY 5-870



