Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No. 2410a-MOR
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 18, 1979
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 11, 1978)
Currency Unit    - Moroccan Dirham (DH) - 100 centimes
US$1.00           - DH 3.82
DH                - US$0.26
DH 1,000,000      - US$261,780
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)          -  0.04 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (m2)        - 10.8 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 hectare (ha)(10,000 m2) -  2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (km2)  -  0.386 square miles (sq. mi.)
1 liter (1)                -  0.264 US gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)         - 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft.) - 264 US gallons (gal)
1 cubic kilometer (km3)   - 264,000 million US gallons
1 cubic meter per
second (m3/sec.)         - 22.8 million US gallons per day (Mgd) or
35.4 cubic feet per second (cusecs)
liters per capita
per day (lpcd)           -  0.264 US gallons per capita per day
liters per second
(1/sec.)                 - 15.8 US gallons per minute
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AfDB   - African Development Bank
FEC    - Fonds d'Equipement Communal
IAURIF - Institut d'Amenagement et d'Urbanisme d'Ile de France
NGM    - Niveau Geometrique Marocain
ONE    - Office National de l'Electricite
ONEP   - Office National de l'Eau Potable
RAD    - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricite de Casablanca
RAK    - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricite de Kenitra
RED    - Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricite de Rabat-Sale
SAFEGE - Societe Anonyme Francaise d'Etudes et de Gestion, Paris
SMD    - Societe Marocaine de Distribution d'Eau, de Gaz et
d'Electricite, Rabat
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE WATER  SUPPLY  AND  SEWERAGE  SECTOR                       .......................            1
General             ....................................................                         1
Water  Resources  ............................................                                   1
Sewerage  Subsector  .......              ...................... .                               2
Sector Organization   ....................................                                       2
Service Level   ............................................. .                                  3
Health Aspects               ....................................                                4
Sector  Program  and  Priorities                      ..............................             4
Performance  in Previous  Bank Lending ........................                                  5
Bank's Objective for the Sector ..... ..............                                             7
II.   THE  PROJECT  AREA  ...... .......................                         ..............         8
Background            ...................... ................................                    8
Water Resources ..........................                                                       8
Production,  Distribution  .................................. .                                  9
Urban  Poor                 .................................................                   10
Population Forecasts .......................                                                    il
Forecast  of Demand  ......            ...............           ....................           12
III. THE PROJECT. ...........14
Project's  Objective  ..................                ......        ................          14
Scope  of  the  Project              ....................         ...................           14
Project  Components              ....................          .....................            16
Alternative  Solutions                  ........................................                18
Cost  Estimates                   .............................................                 19
Project  Financing  ..........................................                                  21
Project  Implementation  .....................................                                  23
Land  Acquisition                   ...........................................                 25
Work  on Force  Account  ............. .........................                                25
Procurement  ................................................                                   25
Disbursements                  ..............................................                   26
Advance  Contracting  and  Retroactive  Financing  ....... .......                              28
Environmental  Aspects  ......................................                                  29
Monitoring  System                    ..........................................                29
This report was prepared and written by Messrs. Johanngeorg Renkewitz and
Johan van Beuzekom.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
Paxe No.
IV.  THE OFFICE NATIONALE DE L'EAU POTABLE (ONEP)   ...............                                                                                               30
Introduction                                    ...............................................                                                       30
Background .................................................                                                                                          30
Past  Performance   ...........................................                                                                                       30
Organization  and Management  ................................                                                                                        31
Personnel  and  Training  ......                                            ...............................                                            32
Accounting  System  .......                                     ....................... ............                                                   32
Billing  and  Collection  .....................................                                                                                        33
Taxes                         ......................................................                                                                   34
Audit  and  Insurance   ........................................                                                                                       34
V.   FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  ........................................                                                                                              35
Background  .................................................                                                                                          35
Past  and  Present  Position  ..................................                                                                                       35
Tariffs, Rate  of  Return  ......                                             ..............................                                           36
Financing  Plan ..............................................                                                                                         38
Future  Finances  ............................................                                                                                         40
VI.    JUSTIFICATION                                  ........................                             ......................                                 41
Least  Cost  Solution  .......                                       .................................                                                 41
Institution  Building  .......................................                                                                                        41
Impact  on  the  Urban  Poor  ......                                           ........................ .....                                         41
Economic  Analysis   .......                                 ...................................                                                       42
Risks                                                ...........................................                                                       42
VII.           AGREEMENTS    REACHED    AND    RECOMMlENDATIONS    ...............................................                                                  43-



iii
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.   Terms of Reference for a Water Resource Study and Preparatory
Investigations for Greater Agadir
2.   Summary of Project Costs and Annual Project Investments
3.   Project Implementation Schedule and PERT diagrams
4.   Monitoring Indicators
5.   Teras of Reference for Optimizing the Treatment Process at the
Bou Regreg Treatment Plant
6.   Bulk and Retail Water Tariffs
7.   Terms of Reference for Review of Water Production and
Distribution Costs of the Centers Managed by ONEP
8.   ONEP's Financial Statements, 1975-1985:  Income Statements,
Cash Flow and Balance Sheets and Assumptions for Financial
Forecasts
9.   List of Contracts
10. Water Production and Demand Forecast for the Mid-Atlantic Coast
11. Water Production and Demand Forecast for Greater Agadir
12. Statement of Expenditure for Works on Force Account
13. Organizational Structure of ONEP
14. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MÂPS
Map. No.
3720R3
14088
14089






CHAPTER I
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
General
1.01      Morocco is situated in the northwestern corner of Africa facing
northwards across the Strait of Gibraltar to the European continent. The
Mediterranean Sea forms its boundary to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the
east, and the narrow fertile strip of Algeria to the northeast. Elsewhere the
country is bordered by the Sahara. The country's four climatic zones reflect
this setting: the coastal areas, the interior plains, the mountains, and the
desert. The interior plains and the coastal zone enjoy a Mediterranean climate
with the interior having greater seasonal and diurnal temperature variations.
Summers are hot and dry, while spring and fall rains are generally light and
irregular with the main precipitation concentrated in the few winter months.
Hence either natural or artificial storage is required to compensate for
the seasonal and irregular rainfalls.
1.02      By the end of 1977, the country's population was approximately 18
million inhabitants, with about 7 million or 39.5% living in the urban areas,
which ranks Morocco as one of Africa's most urbanized nations. Most of the
urban population is concentrated in the six major cities: Casablanca with
1,950,000 inhabitants, Rabat-Sale with 675,000, Marrakech with 400,000, Fez
with 390,000, Meknes with 300,000, and Tanger with 225,000. More than 30
percent of this population segment live in shantytowns (bidonvilles) at
incomes well below the 1978 urban poverty threshold of DH 692 (US$181) per
month.
1.03      Overall growth of population has been at 3% per annum for the last
5 years, and is expected to decrease to 2.6% per annum over the next 10 years.
Whereas the rural population increased in the past at 1.8 % annually, the
urban population grew at 4.8% annually. Migration to urban areas from rural
areas with limited employment opportunities is the major reason for this dis-
parity. The pace of urbanization as indicated in the differential between
the two growth rates is high, and is expected to continue for some time. Where
in the past the growth of the urban population concentrated in the large
agglomerations along the Atlantic coast, it has now increasingly affected
the mid-sized cities. These cities have experienced a higher than average
growth rate for all urban areas. Migration from the rural areas to the cities
brought about housing shortages and has been increasingly directed into ever
expanding shantytowns and other densely populated and poorly serviced dis-
tricts.
Water Resources
1.04      Water is scarce in Morocco. The average annual rainfall varies with
the climatic zones and is between 300 and 500 mm along the coast, more than
1,000 mm in the mountains and less than 100 mm in the desert areas.  The run-
off of the rainwater and the outflow from the aquifers feed an average 21.0 km3



- 2 -
per year to the rivers. Another 4.0 km3 per year represents the volume of
exploitable ground water. Of these sources, only 8.0 km3 are presently exploited
as follows: potable water: 0.3 km3 (3.7%), industries: 0.2 km3 (2.3%), and
agriculture: 7.5 km3 (94%).
1.05      While most of the potable water supplied to settlements up to
medium-sized cities is ground water; the additional water needed to supply
the larger cities increasingly is surface water from distant storage areas,
requiring large transmission pipelines and treatment. The physical and
chemical quality of drinking water is acceptable in most of Morocco's urban
areas. However, the bacteriological water quality is poor in most of the rural
areas due to contamination of ground water supplies resulting from unsanitary
domestic waste disposal.
Sewerage Subsector
1.06      Sewerage exists only in the larger cities and is insufficient, as
it has not been extended to keep up with growth of industry and population.
Moreover, basic sanitation requirements are not met, such as treatment before
discharge or discharge through adequate marine outfalls. In the coastal
communities, the collection systems discharge at the shoreline causing severe
bacteriological contamination of the coastal waters and polluting the beaches,
which in the larger cities has already led to closing of bathing beaches
and prohibition of fishing in the surf zone.
Sector Organization
1.07      The study and development of water resources is the responsibility
of the Hydraulic Department of the Ministry of Equipment. This department is
also in charge of the operation, maintenance and control of all major dams.
It participates in the allocation of the water resources amongst various
consumers which is finalized by a special commission in the Prime Minister's
office.
1.08      Production and distribution of potable water is carried out by
different agencies depending on whether the demand is in urban, semi-rural or
rural areas. These agencies depend on, or are under the tutelage of, either
the Ministry of Equipment, the Ministry of Interior, or the Ministry of Agri-
culture. The most prominent is the Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP),
the agency responsible for development, production and transmission of water
to the urban centers and which to a smaller extent is also in charge of water
distribution activities in the rural centers. Ten independent municipal enter-
prises (regies) assure water distribution in 22 urban agglomerations that
comprise 67 % of the urban and semi-rural population (about 4.85 million in
1977). Water distribution for the remaining urban population is partly per-
formed by ONEP and partly by municipal water services. ONEP is under the
tutelage of the Ministry of Equipment.
1.09      In the administratively chartered rural centers, with about 1.8 mil-
lion inhabitants (1977), water distribution is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Equipment and is assured by ONEP. The "Direction de l'Amenagement



et de l'Equipement Rural" of the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for
the unchartered rural centers with a population of 9.2 million. Funds to
cover the capital costs of the investment program for works carried out in
these rural centers are included in the budget of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. Operation of these systems is assured by the communes which are also
in charge of their maintenance. Through the creation of regies in charge of
water distribution in those urban centers where ONEP presently is responsible
for water distribution, the Government is taking the necessary steps to assure
that ONEP will in future concentrate more and more on the development and
production of potable water.
1.10      Financing of the investment program for expanding the distribution
system operated by the water distributing regies is secured through customer
contributions payable at the time of installing the service, and through
internally generated funds. In the past, the regies have financed between 80%
and 100% of their investment program through these funds. It is difficult to
assess to what extent the limited access to the capital market for borrowing
funds to finance the investment program at an earlier stage has severely
delayed necessary expansions since no extended shortages due to insufficient
storage and transmission capabilities at the distribution level have been
observed.
1.11       So far sewage collection and disposal is the responsibility of
municipal services. A special commission within the "Direction de l'Equipe-
ment" of the Ministry of Interior is in charge of supervising studies for the
installation of sewerage including treatment. Studies for a number of urban
areas are presently under preparation. Pilot treatment plants have been
constructed in various towns throughout the country to gather information
and experience on the most appropriate treatment technologies. Plans exist
either to create new regies or to enlarge existing ones responsible for water
and electricity distribution once adequate sewerage becomes operational.
Service Levels
1.12      Many urban or village water supply systems date back to the Middle
Ages. These systems were replaced by modern installations during the first
half of this century. The existing systems are, however, insufficient to meet
the requirements brought about by increased urbanization and industrial acti-
vities. Water supply systems have reached their full operating capacity in
36% of the larger cities (population of more than 100,000), in 77% of the
medium-sized cities (population between 15,000 and 100,000), in 36% of the
smaller cities (population below 15,000), and in 68% of the rural centers.
1.13      Today all of the urban population has at least limited access to
piped water, but only about 45% are supplied through house connections. The
remainder draw water at public standpipes, mosques or neighbors. The service
in the shantytowns is insufficient often with more than 2,000 consumers for



- 4 -
a multiple faucet stand-pipe and walking distances of over 500 meters. In the
rural areas only 5% of the population has house connections, an additional 10%
has access to public stand-pipes and another 10% draw water from public wells.
The remaining 75% of the rural population depend on traditional sources,
private wells or rainwater storage tanks, which often pose considerable health
hazards.
1.14      The service levels in the sewerage sub-sector leave even more to be
desired. Although most larger towns have collection systems, only about one
third of the population is connected to the sewer. Sanitary conditions are
rather unsatisfactory in the shantytowns where only insufficient numbers of
public toilets and inadequate drainage exist. Besides, those cities equipped
with a limited sewage collection system discharge the effluent without treat-
ment and thus again create a health hazard. In the smaller cities and rural
areas, communal sewerage either do not exist or are vastly inadequate.
Health Aspects
1.15      Limited access to potable water, particularly in the poorest urban
districts and rural areas, the lack of proper systems of waste disposal,
and inadequate housing have contributed to the high incidence of parasitic
and infectious diseases observed in Morocco. Aggregate figures indicate
that there is a sufficient supply of safe potable water at public fountains
and stand-pipes in most cities. Such statistics, however, mask the skewed
distribution of these facilities. Although there may often be an adequate
supply of safe water, the risk of having it polluted before consuming it is
great because of long walking distances. Waste disposal is often inadequate
and varies with the location within an urban settlement. Overcrowded and
ill-equipped housing undermine the health status. Poor environmental condi-
tions associated with low standards of personal hygiene through limited
access to safe water expose individuals to a greater risk of contracting and
spreading disease.
Sector Program and Priorities
1.16      The Goverument is well aware of the sector deficiencies and short-
comings. Although the development and extension of water supply facilities
enjoy a high priority, the Government is faced with the difficult task of
allocating limited funds. The remote location of fresh water sources from the
main urban centers requires the construction of storage reservoirs and long
transmission pipelines which result in high capital and operating expenses of
these facilities. Because of these high investments and budget constraints,
the Government has decided to give first priority to the water supply of the
urban areas where the limited financial resources benefit a maximum of the
population. The second priority is to provide the rural agglomerated villages
with piped water. Although funds are provided to improve water supply in the
rural locations, their limitation and the higher per capita cost of serving
rural areas precludes a sizeable impact in view of the needs.
1.17       Whereas the number of households connected to the water distribu-
tion system in the urban areas over the last five years has increased, the



- 5-
percentage of the urban population connected to the system has nlot increased
substantially. This is partly the result of the concentration of the growth
of the urban population in badly served districts, and partially due to the
fact that the regies rely more or less completely on self-financing for
extending the distribution system, which is assured by a rather high one-time
levy payable together with the fee for installing the house connection at the
time of connection to the system. Since early 1978, only the cost of a house
connection can be paid for in installments by low income customers which,
however, has nlot brought about a significant increase in the number of house-
hold connections as the one-time levy bas still to be paid for in full. In
order to increase the percentage of households connected to the distribution
system, adequate credit facilities have to be made available to the low income
customers of the regies to pay for the charges associated with the installa-
tion of house connections.
1.18       Faced with the need to abate serious pollution of rivers and
beaches caused by inadequate discharge of untreated sewage, the Government
has as a first step commissioned feasibility studies for sewerage, including
treatment for a number of cities. Such a study has been completed for Agadir
(f inanced under the Bay of Agadir Tourism Project - Loan 1202-MOR) and is
about to be started for Casablanca (Loan S-7-MOR).  Once the relevant studies
have been completed and the financing has been assured, the Government is
committed to construct sewerage, including treatment facilities in those
cities.
1.19       A three year plan (1978-1980) was recently adopted by Parliament.
As this plan introduces austerity measures, a number of projects in the water
supply sector had to be delayed, and only those with highest priority are
included. ONEP's investment program therefore foresees the extension of
bulk water production facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast and in Agadir
(the proposed project), as well as for Fez, Marrakech, Tanger and Safi.
Although construction by ONEP of new water systems and extensions of existing
ones in the rural centers is still foreseen in this planning period, the funds
are limited. In the rural areas, 303 projects are foreseen, representing an
investment of DH 53.8 million (US$14.1 million), for which the Ministry of
Agriculture is responsible. In order not to risk shortages in water supply
caused by a delay in the construction of dams, work on those under con-
struction at the beginning of the three year planning period will continue.
Construction of sewerage and treatment facilities for the larger cities will,
however, have to await the next planning period, when the necessary funds
will become available and the overall financing of these investments will
have been resolved.
Performance in Previous Bank Lending
1.20       The Bank has so far extended two loans to the sector.  Loan 850-MOR
for US$ 48.0 million was approved in 1972 and became effective in May 1973. The
objective of this operation was to assist in the financing of construction of
bulk water production facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast, and to create
in ONEP a strong and financially viable institution capable of responding to
the need to increase tbe supply of potable water. The construction of the
tangible assets for the bulk water supply such as the dam, pumping station,



- 6 -
pressure main, treatment plant and transmission pipeline has been completed
and is of good quality. The institution building process, however, has lagged
somewhat. Consultants were appointed with some delay to carry out a tariff
and organizational study. A new tariff introducing a progressive structure
went into effect in October 1977. This tariff is based on the average incre-
mental cost and has as an objective to generate sufficient funds to ensure
self-financing of the water distributing regies investments. ONEP has been
reorganized in line with the recommendations of the consultants' study. New
procedures are being implemented. However, ONEP has already established
itself as an organization well staffed in the technical departments, and in
general capable of handling all technical aspects of producing potable water.
As of the end of January 1979, US$44.0 million had been disbursed. The
remaining balance will be disbursed during 1979 and is primarily related to
release of retention money and final payment of consultant fees.
1.21      The second loan (S-7-MOR) of US$ 1.5 million was presented to the
Board in August 1977 and became effective in October 1978. It provides the
necessary foreign exchange for the preparation of a feasibility study including
preliminary designs for the sewerage facilities of the Casablanca-Mohammedia
area of Morocco.
1.22      Five Bank projects in the agricultural sector, relating to irriga-
tion or rural development, contain a water supply component which consists of
providing treated water to public stand-pipes in villages within the relevant
project areas. The projects concerned are:
-    Souss Ground Water Project (Loan 1123-MOR).
Water supply component DH 2.18 million (US$0.54 million)
or 1.4% of the total project cost of DH 156.0 million
(US$39.0 million), benefitting 12,000 inhabitants;
-    Doukkala I Irrigation Project (Loan 1201-MOR).
Water supply component DH 2.33 million (US$0.6 million)
or 0.6% of the total project cost of DH 366.0 million
(US$94.0 million) benefitting 7,000 inhabitants. In this
case, the water supply component was financed by the USAID;
-    Doukkala II Irrigation Project (Loan 1416-MOR).
Water supply component of five village centers, amounting
totally to DH 6.4 million (US$1.45 million) or 4% of the
total project cost of DH 160.0 million (US$36.4 million),
benefitting 5,000 inhabitants;
-    Meknes Agriculture Development Project (Loan 555-MOR).
Water supply component incorporated in an item for water
supply and small irrigation amounting to DH 10.76 million
(US$2.6 million) or 8% of the project cost of DH 134.1
million (US$32.4 million), benefitting 8,500 inhabitants;
-    Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project (Loan 1602-MOR).
Water supply component DH 82.2 million (US$ 19.1 million)
or 11.8% of the total project cost of DH 694.5 million
(US$161.5 million) benefitting 46,000 inhabitants.



-7-
Bank's Objective for the Sector
1.23      The proposed project is the first step towards improving the service
level of the low income urban population. Though increases in bulk water
production facilities will continue to be necessary, future Bank involvement
in the sector should focus on improving the service level of the urban
population, in particular the urban poor and the lower income segment. The
Bank's further objective in the sewerage subsector should be to assist the
Government in creating competent institutions which would utilize appropriate
technologies for sewage disposal.



CHAIPTER II
PROJECT AREA
Background
2.01      The proposed project will cover two distinct areas in Morocco; the
Mid-Atlantic Coast between Casablanca and Kenitra, and the Greater Agadir Area
(Map 3720R3). The Mid-Atlantic Coast comprises four major cities: Casablanca,
Rabat, Sale and Kenitra as well as a number of interlying smaller towns and
villages. The total population in this area amounts to 2.9 million inhabitants
equivalent to 16% of the total population. Approximately 2.75 million are
living in the urban agglommerations which account for about 40% of the total
urban population. Whilst Rabat is the capital and the seat of Government,
Casablanca is Morocco's economic and industrial capital. Approximately 70% of
the country's gross national product is created in this area.
2.02      Greater Agadir with a population estimated at about 205,000 inhab-
itants, consists of the towns of Agadir and Inezgane and the two rural
centers of Ait Melloul and Tikiouine. Proximity to each other and relatively
close economic ties created by various industries justify th-e description as
Greater Agadir, though to date no political body exists of that name. The
economic activity is based on the natural resources and Agadir's location in a
climatic zone with agreeable winter temperatures. A thriving food processing
industry depends on the abundance of agricultural products and the fishing
industry, particularly Agadir's ranking as one of the leading sardine landing
ports in the world. Agadir's favorable climate attracts ever growing numbers
of tourists both in winter and summer. Although Agadir was completely ravaged
by an earthquake in 1960, it has since been reconstructed and has expanded
considerably.
Water Resources
2.03      Presently existing potable water production capacity for the
Mid-Atlantic Coast from Casablanca to Kenitra amounts to 8,090 I/sec. This
capacity was gradually built up by responding to demand increases, first by
extracting ground water, and then by using a local surface water source
of 200 1/sec. By the early 1930's, it became necessary to develop sources
further away, the first being the Mamora well field (0.9 m3/sec.) near Kenitra
supplying Casablanca via Rabat through a 135 km pipeline. When no more ground
water resources were available, a surface water supply system with a capacity
of 2 m3/sec. was constructed, and by 1952 started operation by drawing and
subsequently treating water from the Oum Er R'Bia River, and transporting
it through a 72 km transmission pipeline to Casablanca. As the need for long
range planning became apparent, the Government in 1967 obtained UNDP assis-
tance for financing the preparation of a water supply master plan up to the
year 2000 for the Mid-Atlantic Coast between Casablanca and Kenitra. Various
alternatives for meeting future water demand were investigated, and finally
the solution was selected that recommended construction of a dam with the
possibility to increase in later phases its height to tap in future the
full storage potential on the Bou Regreg River, together with treatment



-9 
facilities and a transmission pipeline to Casablanca. Construction of the
first phase, which was financed under Loan 850-MOR, included the dam with a
storage capacity of 500 million m3, from which a maximum of 9 m3/sec. can be
drawn, a 4 m3/sec. pumping station, pressure main, a 4 m3/sec. treatment
plant, and a 80 km transmission pipeline to Casablanca.
2.04      Two distinct water resources exist at present that can be used to
meet demand increases in the Mid-Atlantic Coast, the Bou Regreg River and the
Oum Er R'bia River. The Bou Regreg reservoir still disposes of an unutilized
drawing capacity of 5 m3/sec. Through elevating the crest of the dam by 13 m,
another 4 m3/sec. would become available. The increase in the altitude of the
dam would pose no problems, as this was already foreseen when designing it.
2.05      Agadir is presently served by ONEP with potable water extracted from
various wells which are located within a perimeter of 10 km. Total capacity
of these wells is 527 1/sec. The water is of acceptable quality except for
one 60 1/sec. well in the dunes near the ocean which has a high degree of
salinity (about 1,000 mg/l expressed in Cl-ion concentration) due to sea water
intrusion. As all other wells are located further inland, sea water intrusion
does not present itself there. The production capacity of another well field
that provided 350 1/sec. when commissioned, has been decreasing constantly due
to a lowering of the water table caused by uncontrolled extraction of ground
water for irrigation, and because of intrusion of fine sand through improperly
designed screens, thus reducing the efficiency of the pumps.
2.06      In order to ensure that the production capacity of the wells will
not be decreased further by sand infiltration, ONEP intends to monitor the
efficiency of the pumps constantly, and where sand infiltration exceeds
acceptable levels, ONEP would replace the boreholes and install adequate
screenings.
2.07      Additional ground water resources in the vicinity of Agadir that
could be tapped to meet future increases in water demand, and that would
provide a safe yield, are presently not known. Future demand growth has
therefore to be satisfied from more distant sources. A well field with a 350
1/sec production capacity has been found in the Souss Valley, about 40 km
to the east of Agadir. Another 300 1/sec. will become available from the
Oued Issen (40 km to the east of Agadir), regulated by an upstream reservoir
with a storage capacity of 218 million m3. These resources should meet the
water demand in Greater Agadir until 1987, when new, presently unknown water
sources would have to be brought into operation.
Production, Distribution
2.08      Water production along the Mid-Atlantic Coast is shared by ONEP, the
regies, and a privately owned concessionaire the "Societe de Distribution
d'Eau, de Gaz et d'Electricite (SMD)" that exploits the 2 m3/sec. treatment
facility on the Oum Er R'bia River, together with a 78 km gravity pipeline to
Casablanca. ONEP's production facilities presently account for about 53% of
total demand, SMD for 33%, and the regies for the remaining 14%. Water



- 10 -
distribution in Casablanca, Rabat-Sale and Kenitra is assured by three regies,
each in charge of water and electricity distribution. The interlying towns
and villages are served by ONEP directly.
2.09      The distribution systems are well managed by the regies.  Unaccounted
for water is at an acceptable 20% to 25% level. As the regies finance prac-
tically all their investments out of internally generated funds and customer
contributions, expansion of the distribution system has to a great extent not
yet benefitted the low income segment of the population for whom it is often
difficult to make the rather large cash payments required at the time of con-
nection. About 53% of Casablanca's population is therefore connected to the
system, 61% in Rabat, 45% in Sale and 50% in Kenitra.
2.10       ONEP is in charge of water production and distribution in the
Greater Agadir area, with the exception of Tikiouine which manages its own
water production and distribution system. Service levels in the area vary
considerably. With the exception of one large legal settlement, practically
all of Agadir's population living in legal settlements is connected to the
water distribution system. The distribution system of Inezgane, including
Dcheira, was recently extended and about 25% of the population is connected.
The remainder is being served from public wells. The distribution system of
Ait Melloul is also rather inadequate, as only half of the population has
access to safe water. The other part is drawing water from wells, which are
frequently contaminated. Plans for extending the system are presently being
prepared and the extension is expected to be completed by 1980.
2.11      Unaccounted for water in Agadir has recently risen to 35% from a
previous 20% due to faulty meters. A program to replace those meters has been
launched and improvements should be recorded shortly.  The distribution system
is in a reasonably good state. Because of rapid growth of water demand, the
system is in need of strengthening by some internal transmission mains and
additional storage capacity. A 7,500 m3 reservoir is presently under con-
struction and should increase total available storage to 20,000 m3. Replace-
ment of the internal transmission mains is foreseen to be completed by 1980.
Urban Poor
2.12      About 1 million of the 2.9 million inhabitants of the Mid-Atlantic
Coast live at income levels below the 1978 urban poverty threshold of DR 692
(US$181) per family per month. They constitute the urban poor. The majority,
750,000, live in shantytowns, and 250,000 in densely populated districts and
the medinas. Although the layout of some of these shantytowns follows a
regular pattern, a good number of the dwellings are arranged in a way render-
ing the installation of a distribution system impracticable. As most of these
settlements are not legalized, and are sometimes removed, the resulting inse-
curity of the squatters discourages interest in local improvement.
2.13      Because of this, practically no house connections exist in those
areas and the population depends on stand-pipes for their water supply.
Approximately half of the 345 multiple faucet stand-pipes found in Casablanca,
Rabat, Sale and Kenitra are in the squatter areas, and have to serve 750,000



- il -
inhabitants, which translates into more than 4,000 inhabitants per standpipe.
Walking distance to these stand-pipes often exceeds 500 m, which, together
with queueing, is sucli a hardship that mostly only the minimal water demand
is satisfied. The stand-pipes are the property of the municipalities which
are also responsible for their operation. Although the water is distributed
free to the users, the consumption is metered and paid for by the municipality
according to the highest tariff bracket.
2.14      In contrast to the squatter areas, service standards of the other
250,000 urban poor can be upgraded through the installation of individual
house connections provided that adequate arrangements exist for financing
the costs payable at the time of the installation. The proposed project will
provide part of the necessary financial assistance (paragraph 3.20 and 3.25).
2.15      With the exception of the higher income residential areas and the
touristic zones, the urban poor segment of the population of Greater Agadir
is dispersed over the whole area, though concentrations exist in various
shantytowns. About 26%, or some 55,000 inhabitants, live at incomes below
the urban poverty threshold. Approximately 10,000 persons of this segment
have reasonable access to water, be it through house connections or standpipes
within acceptable walking distance. Improvement of service levels could be
achieved by installation of additional house connections or stand-pipes. Some
30 additional stand-pipes would upgrade water distribution in those areas
where at present no house connections can be installed. Another 120 stand-
pipes would be required for those areas where installation of house connec-
tions is possible, but contingent upon the creation of an efficient regie in
charge of water distribution.
2.16      While in general the installation of additional stand-pipes poses no
problem, their operation might, as the water charges are met from the opera-
tional budget of the municipalities. Improvement in the service level by
stand-pipes depends, therefore, on sufficient budget allocations. Several
hundred of additional water distribution points (such as stand-pipes) would be
required to satisfy most of the current needs to improve water services of the
urban poor living in squatter areas of the project area. The Government is
aware of this need and agreed during negotiations to cause the municipalities
in the project area to continue to expand the public water distribution
facilities.
Population Forecasts
2.17      The population between Casablanca and Kenitra, now at 2.9 million,
is expected to grow to 5.0 million by 1990, which represents an overall annual
growth of 4.6%. This forecast was arrived at by taking into consideration the
urban development studies that exist for Casablanca, Rabat and Sale as well as
development prospects of Kenitra and the interlying settlements. Whilst the
bigger agglomerations such as Casablanca and Rabat are assumed to grow at a
lower than average rate, Kenitra, Mohammedia and the interlying villages
are expected to grow at a higher rate. Overall growth is expected to slow
towards the end of the next ten years. The average annual growth rate of 4.7%
between 1978 and 1985 will therefore decline to 4.3% between 1986 and 2000.



- 12 -
2.18      Greater Agadir's present population of 205,000 is expected to grow
to 465,000 by 1990, representing a 7% annual increase. This forecast is based
on a detailed urban development study, which took into consideration Agadir's
development prospects as the main administrative center for the southern
region, the growth of its industrial and commercial activities, as well as of
tourism. Although the city of Agadir still has areas for future development,
its growth will eventually level off and the growth of the Greater Agadir area
will increasingly be directed to the other communes.
Forecast of Demand
2.19      Total water consumption along the Mid-Atlantic Coast amounted to
111.4 million m3 in 1977. Average per capita consumption amounts to 106 1/day
and varies from 97 1/day in Sale, to 145 1/day in Mohammedia. Domestic and
commercial consumption account for 58% of total consumption, industrial for
14.5%, and municipal as well as that of Government agencies for the remaining
28%. Municipal consumption includes water distributed through stand-pipes
to the 1.5 million of the population (48%) not connected to the system. At an
average daily consumption of 15 1 per person, this group consumes 8.2 million
m3 annually, equivalent to 7.4% of total consumption. Industrial consumption
is particularly high in Casablanca and Mohammedia where it accounts for 17%
and 54% respectively of total consumption. Over the last 7 years, growth of
consumption by the different consumer categories has been relatively stable.
The percentage of population connected to the water distribution system
declined from 55% to 52%, mostly through the influx of population into shanty-
towns which are served by stand-pipes. Water consumption by the connected
population increased from 99 lpcd to 120 lpcd and thus more than compensated
for the decline in the connection rate.
2.20      Together with ONEP, the mission reviewed the demand study prepared
by ONEP's consultants' "Societe Anonyme Francaise d'Etudes et de Gestion"
(SAFEGE). Based on historical data, future demand was forecast by projecting
over three time periods (1978 to 1982, 1983 to 1985, and 1986 to 1990) the
likely growth of five parameters: population, industrial and other consump-
tion, connection rate and the per capita consumption. Due to the importance
of Casablanca's water consumption, which accounts presently for 67% of all
water distributed along the Mid-Atlantic Coast, four development patterns were
considered combining two population growth assumptions with two hypotheses on
the development of the connection rate. The model associating a modest popu-
lation growth with an increase in the connection rate was retained for the
overall water consumption forecast. As operating efficiency is high with
overall transmission and distributing losses not exceeding 22%, no variation
was assumed thereof. Also the peak demand pattern was kept constant due to
the size and stage of development of the distribution system. To satisfy
forecast demand, existing production capacity along the Mid-Atlantic Coast
would have to be increased from the present 8 m3/sec. to 13 m3/sec. by
1982, and to 16 m3/sec. by 1988, expressing an annual increase of 7.2%. The
apparent shortfall that might occur durÎng the 1981 peak period would be met
by an overloading of the existing Bou Regreg treatment plant by less than 10%
of the nominal capacity, which is acceptable as a temporary measure (see
Annex 10).



- 13 -
2.21      Existing transmission capacity allows a supply of 1.30 m3/sec. from
the Bou Regreg treatment plant to Casablanca. From 1980, the transmission
capacity would have to be increased to provide additional 0.65 m3/sec. to meet
the peak demand, which will be achieved through the installation of booster
pumps, a component of the proposed project. Production and transmission
capacity would thereafter have to be increased by 1982. Those necessary produc-
tion and transmission facilities are also part of the proposed project. The
capacity of these facilities will be fully utilized by 1989 when new addi-
tional sources will have to be put into operation.
2.22      Total water consumption for Greater Agadir amounted to 13.7 million
m3 in 1977, out of which 32% is distributed to the local population through
house connections, 4% through stand-pipes, 21% to the municipalities and
Government offices, 20% to touristic installations, 16% to industry and 6%
to commercial establishments.
2.23      The growth of water demand for the Greater Agadir area was forecast
by consultants (SAFEGE) and modified by the mission in line with a more
realistic assessment of the likely evaluation of the per capita consumption in
view of the future increase of house connections in the outlying communes.
For certain consumer categories, such as tourism and industry, demand growth
was projected on the basis of future expansion of these sectors. Though still
a part of the population will in future be served through stand-pipes, their
relative share of total demand will drop significantly over time, as the per
capita consumption of 15 1/day is assumed to remain constant, and service
through stand-pipes will gradually be replaced by house connections. Climatic
conditions and the future growth of tourism are unlikely to bring about a
change in the peak demand pattern, which is expected to continue to be at 1.4
times above average demand for July and August, and not to exceed 1.5 times
average demand for three consecutive days. Efficiency of the distribution
system is assumed to improve to 70%. Based on these assumptions, water demand
is expected to grow from a present 437 1/sec. to 962 1/sec. by 1985 and to
1,341 1/sec. by 1990 (see Annex 11).
2.24      Existing facilities are sufficient to meet the peak demand until
June 1980 when the first phase of the proposed project should be operative.
The then increased capacity of 800 1/sec. will satisfy the demand till 1982,
when the second phase of the proposed project should be completed, increasing
the production capacity with another 300 1/sec. and satisfying the demand
until 1986.



- 14
CHAPTER III
THE PROJECT
Project's Objective
3.01      The proposed project will assist the country in meeting a number of
the priority objectives in the water supply sector. First, it will strengthen
ONEP's operational and institutional capability by providing assistance in
implementing that part of its development program relative to meet the growing
demand of the Mid-Atlantic Zone between Casablanca and Kenitra. In view of
the concentration of population and industry, this area enjoys highest priority
in increasing water production. Second, that portion relating to the expan-
sion of the water production and transmission facilities in the Greater Agadir
area will not only provide the urgently needed increase in water supply, but
also alleviate the constraints which have so far prevented the elimination of
unsafe water supply. Third, through the proposed establishment of a revolv-
ing fund within the water distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale
(RED), and Kenitra (RAK) which would provide adequate credit facilities to low
income customers of the regies for financing the installation of the house
connections and related charges, improved access to safe water of that part
of the population, in particular the urban poor, should become a reality.
Fourth, the proposed study for determining the water resources and the manage-
ment thereof for the Greater Agadir area should provide the basis for a
rational planning and allocation between various user categories. Fifth, the
proposed study and the technical assistance relative to ONEP's operations
should help to overcome difficulties at the Bou Regreg water treatment plant
and provide the necessary guidance in decreasing the operating costs of the
smaller centers. Finally, the proposed water supply sector study would review
its organization, the investment decision process and update the first country-
wide water tariff study.
3.02      It is further expected that ONEP will finance part of its investment
program from internally generated funds. This in turn would promote the
application of a rational pricing policy to ensure the generation of funds
necessary for future expansion of water supply facilities and improvements in
the utilization of increasingly scarce water supplies.
Scope of the Project
3.03      The proposed project includes four main elements:  (i) the expansion
of bulk water production and transmission facilities along the Mid-Atlantic
Coast, (ii) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission facilities
for the Greater Agadir area, (iii) funds for credit facilities to finance
house connections of the low income customers of the water distributing regies
of Casablanca, Rabat-Sale and Kenitra population in the project area, and
(iv) studies.
3.04      The expansion of the bulk water production and transmission facil-
ities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast is the logical expansion of the existing
system (Map IBRD 14088) to fully utilize still untapped storage capacity



- 15 -
behind the Bou Regreg dam. The existing production capacity of 4 m3/sec. can
satisfy the demand for two more years, provided that the transmission capacity
to Casablanca is increased by 0.65 m3/sec. Presently, out of the available 4
m3/sec., 1.25 m3/sec. are supplied to Rabat and Sale, another 2.1 m3/sec. to
Casablanca and Mohammedia through the 1.3 m3/sec. transmission pipeline financed
under the first water supply project (Loan 850-MOR), and 0.8 m3/sec. through
another existing pipeline. The increase of the transmission capacity would be
achieved by installing two booster pumps on the 1.3 m3/sec. pipeline, which
would result in a total capacity of 1.95 m3/sec., thus making a total of 2.75
m3/sec. available to Casablanca and Mohammedia. The additional bulk water
production and transmission facilities that will have to be put into service
by 1982 consist of a raw water pumping station with a capacity of 5 m3/sec., a
2.83 km pressure main linking the pumping station at the foot of the Bou Regreg
dam (altitude 16.00 m NGM) with the treatment plant (altitude 150 m NGM), a 5
m3/sec. treatment plant, a 2 km transmission main to Rabat, and an 82 km
transmission main to Casablanca, with a capacity of 1.8 m3/sec. under gravity
flow conditions, and 2.75 m3/sec. with future pressurization. The construc-
tion of the second transmission main to Casablanca and the extension of the
treatment plant were foreseen for 1985 during the appraisal of the first water
supply project (Loan 850-MOR) but as water demand has risen faster than antici-
pated, these installations are needed already in summer 1982. Standby power
for the pumping stations included in the Mid-Atlantic Coast component is not
needed, as these stations are supplied directly from the national power grid
and are therefore not likely to be affected by a power failure.
3.05      The finally available production capacity of 9 m3/sec. at the Bou
Regreg treatment plant will be distributed as follows: 3.5 m3/sec. to Rabat
and Sale, including nearby cities; 5.5 m3/sec. to Casablanca-Mohammedia, out
of which 0.8 m3/sec. through an existing pipeline, 1.3 m3/sec. through the
pipeline financed under the first water supply project, and 1.8 m3/sec.
through the pipeline of the proposed project, and an additional 0.65 m3/sec.
and 0.95 m3/sec. through pressurization of the latter two pipelines.
3.06      The component related to the Greater Agadir bulk water supply (Map
IBRD 14089) consists of two phases to increase water production capacity by
650 1/sec. The first phase consists of equipping the existing Ahmar Boudhar
well field 43 km east of Agadir with pumps and ancillary equipment, and of
constructing a transmission pipeline to Agadir, with a diameter of 0.60 m
up to a 1,500 m3 balancing reservoir at Sidi Bou Shab, and with a diameter
of 0.80 m thereafter. This will increase the existing production capacity by
350 1/sec., and will have to be operational by summer 1980 in order to avoid
foreseeable water shortages. In a second phase, 300 1/sec. will be drawn from
the Oued Issen regulated by the Tamzaourt dam. This dam will be completed by
1981, and will have a storage capacity of 218 million m3 from which an average
2.5 m3/sec. is allocated to irrigation and a constant 300 1/sec. to potable
water on a priority basis. A 8 km transmission pipeline will convey the water
to a treatment plant to be constructed at Sidi Bou Shab next to the balancing
reservoir on the transmission pipeline from the Ahmar Boudhar well field. This
1,500 m3 balancing reservoir would allow regulation of water quantities dis-
patched to Agadir through the pipeline constructed under the first phase. The
second phase is expected to become operational by 1982.



- 16 -
3.07      New customers of the water distributing regies of Casablanca, Rabat-
Sale and Kenitra have to pay the cost of the house connection which in 1978
averaged DH 750 (US$196) for a single dwelling connection.  In addition, a
contribution towards the extension of the distribution system has to be made in
those cases where this was not paid for by a developer. This contribution is
assessed in proportion to the square root of the lot surface, amounting in 1978
to DH 1,450 (US$380) for a typical low income dwelling, and has to be paid in
Casablanca for 30% of all connections, in Rabat-Sale for 72% of all connections,
and in Kenitra for 60% of all connections. Although since early 1978 low
income customers of the regies can repay the cost of the house connection in
monthly installments of DH 100 (US$26), this financing has not brought about a
great increase in the demand for individual house connections by this group
partly because the contribution has to be paid for in full in advance, and
partly because of the rather high monthly paynent.
3.08      Within each of the water distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD),
Rabat-Sale (RED) and Kenitra (RAK), the proposed project would establish
a revolving fund that would provide credit facilities to new low income
customers of the regies covering the payment of the house connection and the
contribution towards extension of the distribution system. It is expected
that by end 1983, approximately 48,000 connections will be constructed bene-
fitting from this operation, thus increasing the connection rate to more than
80% in those areas where installation of individual house connections is
possible.
3.09      The future source that would supply water to Greater Agadir
from 1987 has yet to be identified. It is therefore essential that a study
be undertaken that would inventory water resources, estimate their development
cost and propose a long range water development and management plan. The
Hydraulic Department within the Ministry of Equipment would be the executing
agency. This department would also be in charge of investigations on water
resources which are necessary for this study and which have to be completed
prior to its start. Terms of reference have been discussed with this agency
and are given in Annex 1.
3.10      The proposed sector study would review the sector's organization,
the investment decision process and update the first countrywide water tariff
study. The executing agency would be the Secretariat for Economic Affairs in
the Prime Minister's Office. Costs of this study are to be covered by the
Government and are not included in the Bank Loan.
3.11      Project Components
A.   Bulk water supply Casablanca - Kenitra:
(1) construction of two booster pumping stations on the
existing transmission pipeline between the Bou Regreg
treatment plant and Casablanca, one with a capacity of
2.23 m3/sec. located near the Bou Regreg treatment
plant, the other with a capacity of 1.95 m3/sec.
located half way, near Bouznika, where a balancing
reservoir of 3500 m3 is also to be constructed;



- 17 -
(2) construction of a raw water pumping station near the
Bou Regreg dam, supply and installation of 3 pumps
each with a capacity of 2 m3/sec. together with
motors and switchgear, and supply and installation
of a 18 MVA transformer;
(3) supply and installation of a 2.83 km pressure main,
with a diameter of 1.6 m, a transmission capacity
of 5.7 m3/sec., and a service pressure of up to
23 bars;
(4) construction of a 5 m3/sec. treatment plant adjacent
to the existing Bou Regreg treatment plant, includ-
ing screening, pre-chlorination, aeration, coagulation,
and flocculation with Ph adjustment, dosing equipment
for activated carbon and/or potassium permanganate,
settling, rapid sand filtration and disinfection by
chlorine;
(5) supply and installation of a 81.88 km prestressed
concrete transmission pipeline from the Bou Regreg
treatment plant to Casablanca with a diameter'of 1.5 m
for the first 61.325 km, and with a diameter of 1.3 m
for the following 20.550 km, together with a break
pressure tank, flow measure instrumentation and flow
controlling and regulating equipment;
(6) supply and installation of a transmission main from
the Bou Regreg treatment plant to Rabat, with a dia-
meter of 1.0 m and a length of 2 km;
(7) supply and installation of a transmission main between
Rabat and Sale, with a diameter of 0.9 m and a length
of 8 km;
(8) staff housing for plant operators and supervisors;
(9)  consultant services for project design and supervision.
B.   Agadir bulk water supply:
(1) equipping 12 boreholes of the Ahmar Boudhar well field
with pumping systems including stand-by, measuring,
communications and ancillary equipment;
(2) installation of a well field collection system with
pipes of a total length of 30 km with diameter varying
between 0.15 m and 0.60 m;
(3) supply and installation of an 8 km transmission pipe-
line with a diameter of 0.60 m from the Oued Issen to
the treatment plant at Sidi Bou Shab;



- 18 -
(4) a 300 1/sec. water treatment plant including the
construction and equipping of a laboratory at
Sidi Bou Shab;
(5) construction of a balancing reservoir of 1,500 m3, a
control station, a chlorination station and staff
housing at Sidi Bou Shab and another chlorination
station at Agadir.
(6) supply and installation of 30 km transmission main
from Sidi Bou Shab to Agadir with a diameter of
0.80 m and 0.70 m together with flow control and
measuring equipment;
(7) installation of power transmission lines to the well
field and the treatment plant;
(8) consultant services for project design and supervision.
C.   Improvement in the water distribution system of the water
and electricity distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD),
Rabat-Sale (RED) and Kenitra (RAK) by establishing a revolving
fund within each of the water distributing regies of Casablanca
(RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED) and Kenitra (RAK) to finance house
connections and related contributions towards the extension
of the distribution system payable by the low-income population
at the time of connecting to the system.
D.   Studies and Training:
(1)  water resource and water management study for the
Greater Agadir area and preparatory investigations;
(2) review and improvement of the Bou Regreg water treatment
operations and training of local staff in appropriate
treatment techniques;
(3) review and improvement of ONEP's operation of its water
production and distribution activities in the smaller
and medium sized centers; and
(4) a study on the organization of the structure of the
water supply sector, including the updating of the
existing study on tariffs in such sector.
Alternative Solutions
3.12      In arriving at the proposed solution for the Bou Regreg water supply
system, several alternatives were studied to meet the forecast water demand
along the Mid-Atlantic Coast to year 2000. These alternatives combined as a
first phase, increases of varying levels of the water production facilities



- 19 -
at the Bou Regreg reservoirs of 3 m3/sec., 4 m3/sec., up to a maximum of 5 m3/
sec., which can be achieved without elevating the height of the Bou Regreg
dam. Subsequent phases foresaw increases of the quantities drawn from either
the Bou Regreg reservoir or the Oum Er R'bia River. The selected solution
which would provide additional production capacity of 5 m3/sec. from the Bou
Regreg reservoir is the least cost solution using discount rates of 6% to 12%,
and would satisfy the demand for the Mid-Atlantic Coast until 1988. The
selected diameter and capacity of the booster pumps of the new transmission
pipeline to Casablanca represent the least cost solution at discount rates
between 6% and 12%. Future demand increases are most likely to be met by
developing production facilities along the Oum Er R'bia River. These sources
would then provide operational flexibility as the demand of Casablanca would
be met through sources in the north and south.
3.13      For the Agadir component, several alternatives were studied com-
bining different sites for the water intake, the balancing reservoir, the
treatment plant, the method of pumping, and flow control. The selected
alternative is the least cost alternative at discount rates of 8% to 10%,
and foresees the intake at the highest site (208 NGM), the treatment plant
with the balancing reservoir at the lower site (155 NGM), direct pumping and
downstream flow control.
Cost Estimates
3.14      The total project cost is estimated at DH 697.2 million (US$182.5
million) with a foreign exchange cost of DH 314.5 million (US$82.3 million)
equal to 45% of the total cost. The estimated project costs which are sum-
marized below are detailed in Annex 2.



- 20 -
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    % of
----- DH million ----    ---- US$ million ----   Total
Item
A. Casablanca
Bulk Water Supply
Bou Regreg Water
Production. incl.
transmission to
Rabat                 88.06   76.25  164.31    23.06    19.96   43.02   23.6
Transmission
Pipeline to
Casablanca           117.59   93.67  211.26    30.78    24.52   55.30   30.3
B. Agadir Bulk
Water Supply          40.82   33.36   74.18    10.69       8.73   19.42   10.6
CG Consulting Services,
Technical Assistance,
Studies, and Prepara-
tory Works            18.41   18.31   36.72       4.82     4.79    9.61    5.3
Base Cost            297.35  254.06  551.41    77.85    66.50  114.35   79.1
Physical
Contingencies        29.02   23.99   53.01       7.60     6.28   13.88    7.6
Price
Escalation           56.33   36.48   92.81    14.73       9.56   24.29   13.3
D. Fund for House
Connections           32.47   32.47   64.94       8.50     8.50   17.00    9.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST  382.70  314.53  697.23   100.18    82.34  182.52  100.0
3.15      The cost estimates for the bulk water production and transmission
component were prepared by SAFEGE and reviewed together with ONEP by the
mission.  Equipment prices are based on price levels established through
international competitive bidding. Civil works cost estimates are in line
with construction price levels prevailing in Morocco in July 1978. Ail cost
estimates have been adjusted to January 1979 levels. Physical contingencies
were established for the Casablanca-Kenitra component at 10%, considering
the advanced state of design and the fact that this component is more or
less duplicating the recently completed project, and that soil conditions are
known.   However, a physical contingency of 15% was foreseen for the water
treatment plants as equipment manufacturers will be asked to submit bids on
performance specifications. The same contingency was applied to that portion
of the Greater Agadir bulk transmission pipeline where the alignment is not



- 21 -
yet determined and hence soil conditions unknown. Customs duties and appli-
cable local taxes are included in the base costs. Provision has been made
for price escalation during project execution. Expenditures for imported
items and foreign services are assumed to increase annually at 7%, and those
for locally procured items and services at 11% for 1979, and 7% -hereafter.
3.16      The project provides for an estimated 1,210 man-months of consulting
services for improving treatment techniques, related training, final design,
preparation of tender documents, construction supervision and the water
resource study for Greater Agadir. The estimated cost of these services is
DH 30.0 millon (US$7.92 million) or on the average US$6,500 per man-month.
Project Financing
3.17      The table below sets out the project cost and the financing there of:
REQUIREMENTS                             Local   Foreign   Total   %
-------- $ Million --------
A.   Mid-Atlantic Coast
(i) Production facilities
at Bou Regreg reservoirs            33.51    27.90    61.41  33.7
(ii) Transmission main from the
Bou Regreg treatment plant
to Casablanca                       42.80    33.34    76.14  41.7
B.   Production and Transmission
facilities in the Greater
Agadir Area                              14.07    11.33    25.40  13.9
C.   Greater Agadir Water
Resource Study                            1.30      1.27      2.57   1.4
D.   House Connections                         8.50      8.50    17.00   9.3
TOTAL                                        100.18    82.34   182.52 100.0
Of which:
Price Contingencies                      14.73      9.56    24.29  13.3
Physical Contingencies                    7.60      6.28    13.88   7.6
FINANCING
A.   Proposed Bank Loan                        -        49.00    49.00  26.8
B.   Other Loan for Project                    -        33.34    33.34  18.3
C.   F.E.C. Loan to Regies                    8.50        -        8.50   4.7
D.   Government Contribution                 91.68        -       91.68  50.2
TOTAL                                       100.18      82.34   182.52 100.0



- 22 -
3.18      ONEP will be the beneficiary of the major part of the proposed Bank
loan; that part of the loan relating to the fund for house connections will be
onlent to the water distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED)
and Kenitra (RAK). The proposed Bank loan of US$49.0 million would finance
26.8% of total project cost and would cover the estimated foreign exchange
expenditures for all project items, with the exception of the Bou Regreg-
Casablanca transmission pipeline. The Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany has expressed interest in financing this component, for which
foreign exchange of US$33.34 million is required or 18.3% of total project
cost. The Fonds d'Equipement Communale (FEC) within the Caisse de Depot et
de Gestion has agreed to provide DH 32.5 million (US$8.5 million) to the
regies to cover the local cost financing of the proposed fund for financing
house connections. DH 350.22 million (US$91.68 million) would be provided by
the Government out of which DH 345.45 million (US$91.68 million) as an equity
contribution to ONEP's capital, for which DH 72 million (US$18.8 million) are
included for the ONEP project component in the three year plan covering 1978-
1980 and the remainder is committed in the next planning period. The remain-
ing Government contribution of DH 4.78 million (US$1.25 million) represents
the local funds for the Greater Agadir water resource study.
3.19      As the transmission pipeline is an integral part of the Casablanca-
Kenitra bulk water supply component, its financing would have to be secured
promptly. Therefore, during negotiations agreements were reached that
the Government would provide the necessary funds for successful completion
of the project, should the German co-financing not materialize. Furthermore,
the Bank loan would be linked to any other external financing by a cross
default clause.
3.20      Establishment of the revolving fund within the regies of Casablanca
(RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED), and Kenitra (RAK) is contingent upon availability of
the necessary local cost financing. Assurances have therefore been obtained
from the Government that it will cause the Fonds d'Equipement Communal to enter
into lending arrangements acceptable to the Bank that until 1983 would provide
the water distributing regie of Casablanca (RAD) with DH 16.24 million, the
water distributing regie of Rabat-Sale (RED) with DH 10.89 million, and the
water distributing regie of Kenitra (RAK) with DH 5.35 million to cover the
local currency component of the house connections and the contribution towards
the extension of the distribution system. As the water distributing regies of
Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED) and Kenitra (RAK) do not dispose of the
amounts needed to prefinance the installation of the house connections, with-
out their overall investment being curtailed, the Fonds d'Equipement Communal
(FEC) has agreed to prefinance the cost of the house connections and the
contribution over the first three months. The corresponding amounts would
be DH 1.05 million (US$0.27 million) for the regie of Casablanca (RAD), DR
0.76 million (US$0.20 million) for the regie of Rabat-Sale (RED), and DH 0.37
million (US$0.10 million) for the regie of Kenitra (RAK). Agreements have
therefore been reached during negotiations that the Government will see to it
that the FEC enters into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the regie
of Casablanca (RAD), the regie of Rabat-Sale (RED), and the regie of Kenitra
(RAK) that would provide the regies with the above mentioned amounts. Agree-
ment was further reached during negotiations that lending agreements between



- 23 -
the FEC and the three regies (RAD, RED, RAK) as well as subsidiary loan
agreements between the Government and the three regies would be executed by
all parties concerned on or before June 30, 1980 under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
3.21      The Government's equity contributions to ONEP for financing the
local cost of the project will amount to of DH 34.2 million (US$8.9 million)
in 1979, DH 37.8 million (US$9.9 million) in 1980, DH 243.63 million (US$63.78
million) in 1981, DH 26.85 million (US$7.03 million) in 1982, and DH 2.97 mil-
lion (US$.78 million) in 1983. Within the budget of the Hydraulic Department,
DH 2.15 million (US$0.57 million) will be made available in 1980, the same
amount in 1981, and DH 0.46 million (US$0.12 million) in 1982, to cover the
local cost of the water resource study for Greater Agadir and preparatory
works therefore.  Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotia-
tions that it will make these amounts available to ONEP and if necessary will
provide any additional funds needed to cover any cost overruns ONEP cannot
meet. Assurances were further obtained during negotiations that the Government
will see to it that the budget of the Hydraulic Department contains the indi-
cated amounts necessary to cover the local cost of the water resource study,
and that it will provide any funds necessary to complete the study if needed.
Project Implementation
3.22      The project will be executed in the years 1979 through 1983.  ONEP
will be responsible for the construction of the bulk water production and
transmission facilities on the Mid-Atlantic Coast and in Greater Agadir. The
Hydraulic Department will be in charge of the investigations and the water
resource study in Greater Agadir, and the water distributing regies of Casa-
blanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED) and Kenitra (RAK) for the installation of the
house connections. Final design and tender documents are being prepared by
SAFEGE: those for the booster pumping station and the first phase of the
Agadir component have been completed, the remainder is expected to become
available in August 1979. Invitation for preselection for the Bou Regreg
treatment plant to be constructed on a performance specification basis are
expected to be sent out by July 1979. A diagram covering all project activi-
ties including the tentative construction schedule and a PERT network with
a critical path analysis is attached as Annex 3. This time schedule was
discussed and agreed upon with ONEP during negotiations.
3.23      Construction supervision will be performed partly by ONEP and partly
by consultants. Although ONEP's staff has acquired reasonable experience in
this type of work during the supervision of the first water supply project,
additional assistance is necessary for supervision and the proper implementa-
tion of the more specialized project components. During negotiations, assur-
ances have therefore been obtained from ONEP that it will employ experienced
technical experts on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to assist
ONEP in construction supervision.
3.24      Both bulk water supply components depend on dams, the Bou Regreg
dam and the Tamzaourt dam. The Bou Regreg dam was constructed under the first
water supply project (Loan 850-MOR), the Tamzaourt dam is presently under con-
struction. Annual inspections of all dams in Morocco are carried out by the



- 24 -
Hydraulic Department which has qualified staff. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that the Bou Regreg and Tamzaourt
dams will be periodically inspected by experts, in accordance with sound
engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies
in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of main-
tenance or methods of operations of same, which may endanger their safety, and
that promptly after each inspection all necessary repairs of such structures
and dams are made.
3.25      The revolving fund to finance house connections to new low income
customers of the water distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale
(RED) and Kenitra (RAK) would be set up as a distinct operation with separate
accounts within each of the regies. The following eligibility criteria would
ensure that the target group lacking the means to pay for the installation of
individual house connections would benefit from this operation: (i) proof
that monthly family income is less than DH 1,000 (US$262); (ii) no commercial
activity on premises; (iii) location in a zone classified as either densely
populated or as low income housing area; (iv) economic type or traditional
style of construction, (v) diameter of water meter not to exceed in principle
20 mm; (vi) owner occupancy, with the exception of traditional multi-family
dwellings. In order to ensure that the urban poor benefit to the maximum
extent possible from this operation, at least 40% of all connections installed
in each year under this program would have to be for families with a monthly
income of less than DH 692 (US$181). A repayment period of up to 5 years and
a maximum quarterly payment of DH 100 (US$26) would ensure affordability, and
at the same time the generation of funds that could be relent. As no Govern-
ment subsidies are foreseen, the interest rate to the beneficiaries would be
on the same level as the interest rate on the Bank loan.
3.26      Agreement was reached during negotiations with the Governient that
it will see to it that the water distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD),
Rabat-Sale (RED), and Kenitra (RAK) will apply the above-mentioned eligibility
criteria when making loans available to low income customers out of the
revolving fund. Agreement was further reached with the Government at negotia-
tions that the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and the water
distributing regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED) and Kenitra (RAK)
would provide out of the proposed Bank loan US$4.25 million to the water dis-
tributing regie of Casablanca (RAD), and US$2.85 million to the water distri-
buting regie of Rabat-Sale (RED), and US$1.4 million to the water distributing
regie of Kenitra (RAK), and which would specify that (i) at least 40% of all
connections installed in every year under this financing will be for families
with monthly incomes below DH 700; (ii) the quarterly repayment of benefi-
ciaries will not exceed DH 100, (iii) the whole repayment period by the
benefitting borrowers will not exceed 5 years; (iv) the amounts received by
the above regies from the beneficiaries be used exclusively in the following
order: (a) interest and service charges for the IBRD loan and FEC loan; (b)
repayment of IBRD loan and FEC loan; and (c) financing of new house connec-
tions of eligible customers; (v) the above regies would keep separate accouats
regarding this operation; (vi) the Financial Controller of the regies in his
capacity as "commissaire aux comptes" would annually certify the accounts
regarding this operation; and (vii) that such certificate would be made
available to the Bank.



- 25 -
3.27      The water resource study for Greater Agadir cannot be started before
additional data is collected by the Hydraulic Department on the availability
of ground and surface water. These preparatory works are expected to be
completed by September 1981. Only then will it be possible to contract con-
sultant services for the study.  Assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that qualified consultants would be employed not later
than January 1, 1982 under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to
carry out the Greater Agadir water resource study. In order to allow for a
future rational allocation of scarce water resources in Greater Agadir, assur-
ances'were furthermore obtained from the Government during negotiations that
it will see to it that the recommendation of this study as approved by the
Government would be implemented not later than June 30, 1983.
Land Acquisition
3.28      ONEP has already acquired all the land needed for future extension
of the existing Bou Regreg treatment plant, as well as for the laying of the
pressure main and the transmission pipeline to Casablanca. So far, only part
of the land for the transmission pipeline to Agadir and its treatment plant
has been acquired. As construction of this pipeline is expected to start
soon, ONEP must expeditiously acquire this land. Temporary occupation of
some land might be needed for stockage of materials. Although ONEP will try
to acquire the ownership of all land and rights through normal procedures,
difficulties might arise in obtaining these rights, which could cause substan-
tial delays in project execution, unless the Government takes special expro-
priation procedures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will promptly take all steps necessary to enable ONEP to
acquire expeditiously the right to occupy land and easements needed for the
project.
Work on Force Account
3.29      Installation of house connections to low income customers and the
extension of the distribution system would be carried out by the water dis-
tributing regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED), and Kenitra (RAK) on
force account. The regies have available the necessary equipment and trained
workers. No difficulties are expected in recruiting and training additional
workers should the need arise. In the past, all house connections were
installed by the regies, which also carried out the extensions to the distri-
bution system. In this way, the regies have acquired the necessary skills.
Furthermore, scheduling flexibility which is not available to an outside
contractor is required in installing the house connections. Because of this,
installation of the house connections and the extension of the distribution
system by the regies on force account would be justified.
Procurement
3.30      The major contracts, totalling DH 240.0 million (US$62.5 million),
of which the foreign exchange components are financed by the Bank, would be
awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. For equipment contracts amounting to



- 26 -
DH 90.0 million (US$23.5 million), a margin of preference of 15% or the actual
customs duties (whichever is less) would be allowed for domestic manufac-
turers. Contracts let by ONEP for civil works for less than DH 3.0 million
(US$0.8 million) and equipment and materials for less than DH 400,000
(US$100,000) and all aggregating to no more than DH 15.0 million (US$4.0 mil-
lion) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance
with ONEP's procedures which are acceptable to the Bank and which permit
participation by foreign bidders. The regies would install the house connec-
tions and the related extensions to the distribution system on a force account
basis, and would procure the related materials amounting to US$11.2 million
following international notification and under the local competitive bidding
procedures of each regie which are acceptable to the Bank; these contracts
would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
3.31      The Office National de l'Electricite would install for the account
of ONEP the electricity supply lines to the Ahmar Boudhar well field and to
the treatment plant, costing DH 10.0 million (US$2.6 million) according to
local procurement procedures for public contracts which are acceptable to
the Bank. Supply and installation of the Bou Regreg-Casablanca transmission
pipeline will be procured and funded under parallel financing.
3.32      Foreign contractors are expected to win the contracts for the supply
of most of the equipment, and for the water treatment plants. Local con-
tractors are expected to win either alone, or in partnership with foreign
contractors, the contracts for supply and installation of pipes, and for civil
works. A list of contracts is provided in Annex 9.
Disbursements
3.33      The proposed loan of US$49.0 million would be disbursed against the
cost of the project items as follows:



- 27 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Supply and installation             17,130,000           100% of foreign
of equipment for the                                    expenditures and
Project (except for                                     58% of local expendi-
sub-Part A (5))                                         tures for goods
purchased from
local suppliers
and 55% of local
expenditures for
goods manufactured
locally
(2)  Civil works for the                 16,180,000          38%
Project (except for
sub-Part A (5))
(3)  Consultants' services                2,990,000          100% of foreign
under Part D of the                                     expenditures and
Project (except those                                   45% of local expendi-
for the design and                                      tures for consultants
supervision of sub-                                     domiciled in Morocco
Part A (5)) and for
sub-Parts D (4) and (5)
(4) Works carried out under
force account:
(a)  by RAD                         4,250,000           50%
(b)  by RED                         2,850,000           50%
(c)  by RAK                         1,400,000           50%
(5)  Unallocated                          4,200,000
TOTAL                                    49,000,000
3.34      Disbursements for works on force account will be made against a
certificate of expenditure, the documentation of which is not to be submitted
for review, but will be retained by the regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale
(RED) and Kenitra (RAK) and available for inspection by the Bank during the
course of a project supervision mission (see Annex 12).



- 28 -
3.35      The closing date of the proposed Loan would be June 30, 1984, to
allow sufficient time to release retention money.
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Cumulative
FY and Quarter            Disbursement at End of Quarter             Disbursements
-------------------- US$ millions -------------------
1980
December 31, 1979                       4.76                               4.76
March 31, 1980                           3.74                              8.50
June 30, 1980                           3.31                              11.81
1981
September 30, 1980                      3.72                              15.53
December 31, 1980                        2.03                             17.56
March 31, 1981                           3.78                             21.34
June 30, 1981                           4.22                              25.56
1982
September 30, 1981                      3.95                              29.51
December 31, 1981                       3.40                              32.91
March 31, 1982                           3.96                             36.87
June 30, 1982                           4.62                              41.49
1983
September 30, 1982                      2.82                             44.31
December 31, 1982                        1.04                             45.35
March 31, 1983                           0.99                             46.34
June 30, 1983                            1.11                            47.45
1984
September 30, 1983                      0.95                             48.40
December 31, 1983                       0.60                              49.00
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
3.36      In order to avoid water shortages in both Casablanca and Agadir
during the summer of 1980, the booster pumps on the existing Bou Regreg-
Casablanca transmission pipeline, and the Ahmar Boudhar well field near Agadir
should both be operational in June 1980 at the latest. Taking into account
two months for testing and for slack time, these two contracts are planned to
be completed by April 1980. As the construction period and the time required
to manufacture and supply the equipment is at least twelve months, these two
contracts amounting to respectively DH 16.0 million (US$4.0 million) and DH
75.0 million (US$9.66 million), are expected to be let in May 1979.. It is
recommended that expenditures under these contracts prior to the loan approval
be eligible for retroactive financing provided these contracts were awarded in
compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The foreign exchange part
of these expenditures is not expected to exceed DH 6.0 million (US$1.6 million).



- 29 -
Environmental Aspects
3.37      Possible adverse effects of the project on the environment should
be small, provided that adequate sewerage is provided in future. Practically
all places connected to the water distribution system are either sewered or
have other means of disposing of wastes.  However, disposal ot .ewage still
presents problems in the project area. An engineering study for sewerage of
Greater Agadir has been completed and upgrading of the existing system by
installation of a treatment plant is foreseen in the near future, as well as
the construction of interceptors and improvements in the existing collecting
system. Another engineering study for Casablanca (financed under Loan S7-MOR)
is about to start and will provide the basis for selecting the most appropriate
technological solution for safe disposal of sewage. Stagnant water found
around some standpipes is due to improper operation of the standpipes and
poor drainage. This situation should improve with the installation of addi-
tional standpipes which should convince the municipalities to improve the
maintenance program, and to install new standpipes only in places with
sufficient drainage.
Monitoring System
3.38      During project execution, appropriate indicators will monitor the
financial and technical targets set for this project. Annex 4 provides the
forecast values of these indicators. These indicators were discussed with
ONEP during negotiations. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations
from ONEP that it will report quarterly to the Bank on the evolution of these
indicators, and that it will take any reasonable remedial action suggested by
the Bank. Assurances have further been obtained from the Government that it
will see to it that the regies also report to the Bank on a quarterly basis on
progress made in installing the house connections financed under the project.
3.39      At negotiations, assurances have also been secured that within six
months following the closing date of the loan, the Government on the one side,
for the fund for financing house connections of low income customers of the
regies and for the Greater Agadir water resource study, and ONEP on the other
side, for its project components, will prepare and submit to the Bank a comple-
tion report on the execution and initial operation of its project component,
its costs, and the benefits derived or to be derived from it, the performance
and fulfillment by the Government, the regies and ONEP, of their respective
obligations under the loan and project agreement, and the accomplishment of
the objectives of the Bank loan.



- 30 -
CHAPTER IV
OFFICE NATIONALE DE L'EAU POTABLE (ONEP)
Introduction
4.01      The Borrower of the proposed Bank loan of US$49.0 million will be
the Kingdom of Morocco. Out of the proceeds of the loan US$39..5 million will
be onlent to ONEP, US$8.50 million to the water distributing regies as follows:
US$4.25 million the regie of Casablanca (RAD), US$2.85 million to the regie
of Rabat-Sale (RED) and US$1.40 million to the regie of Kenitra (RAK). US$1.0
million will be made available to the Hydraulic Department for financing the
foreign exchange component of the Greater Agadir water resource study.
Background
4.02      ONEP was established in 1972 by replacing the Regie des Exploita-
tions Industrielles (REI) previously in charge of bulk water production, in
an effort to build up adequately the managerial and financial resources in
that part of the water supply sector responsible for water production. ONEP
is owned by the Government and is under the tutelage of the Ministry of Equip-
ment. It has the status of an autonomous public enterprise but is managed in
accordance with principles applicable to a commercial undertaking. ONEP is
the borrower of a previous Bank Loan (Loan 850 MOR).
Past Performance
4.03      Except for the training center, all physical components of the first
water supply project have been fully implemented. Most of the project facili-
ties became operational in 1975. However, difficulties have arisen over the
past years in producing water of acceptable quality at reasonable cost due to
eutrophication and stratification of the waters stored behind the Bou Regreg
dam. Although water of acceptable quality is produced by using high dosages
of appropriate chemicals, this is accompanied by a steep increase in treatment
cost. As other means and methods might still be available to produce water of
acceptable quality at lower cost, it is recommended that ONEP engage an expert
specialized in water treatment to establish methods to optimize the treatment
process and train local staff in the application of these methods. Assurances
were therefore obtained from ONEP during negotiations that it will engage by
January 1, 1980 at the latest the services of an expert specialized in water
treatment on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Terms of reference
for such an assignment are included in Annex 5.
4.04      In establishing itself as the country's agency responsible for
potable water production, ONEP has in the past recruited a qualified tech-
nical staff. However, these efforts have not always been successful in the
accounting and finance departments. Water sales increased from 66.4 million
m3 in 1972 to 134.4 million m3 in 1977.



- 31 -
Organization and Management
4.05      A board of 20 members supervises ONEP's activities.  Eleven members
of the board are public officials representing the ministries and government
agencies which have a particular interest in the sector. The other nine mem-
bers represent ONEP's customers insofar as seven members are the presidents
of the seven regional assemblies and two members are the directors of water
distributing regies. A technical committee composed of four board members
representing the Ministries of Equipment, Finance, Interior and Agriculture
follow up on the board's decisions. Beyond the appointment of most of ONEP's
board members, the overall control exercised by the Government covers major
decisions such as approval of investment and operating budgets, borrowings,
tariff levels, code of employment and major procurement, but does not affect
ONEP's operational autonomy.
4.06      The general manager is appointed by the King and is responsible
for day-to-day operations. In compliance with provisions of the guarantee
agreement of the first water supply project (Loan 850-MOR), ONEP has relin-
quished all its non-water activities. A new organizational structure was
developed by consultants, approved by ONEP, and has recently been implemented
(See Annex 13).
4.07      According to this new structure, the deputy general manager super-
vises the day-to-day operations of ONEP, the inspector general is responsible
for operational control, internal audit, and a special planning unit attached
to the general manager's office is in charge of long-range planning. All
operational departments in ONEP's head office,and the regional offices,report
to the deputy general manager. The head office has five departments: one
responsible for operation and maintenance, one in charge of detailed planning
and execution of small to medium sized projects, one in charge of detailed
planning and execution of large projects, one in charge of administration,
personnel training, legal and support services, and one in charge of finance
and accounting.
4.08      Like all other public enterprises in Morocco, ONEP is subject to the
control exercised by the financial controller and the accounting agent. These
are "a priori" controls which ensure that adequate funds are available when
entering into commitments and when making payments.  Although these controls
could be thought of as restricting excessively the financial autonomy of ONEP,
in practice this has not been the case, and has not caused undue delays in
ONEP's transactions. Whereas the financial controller is responsible for a
group of enterprises or agencies, the accounting agent is assigned to one
enterprise. The financial controller attends meetings of the board, and those
of its technical committee in an advisory capacity. All purchases exceeding
DH 50,000 as well as all real estate transactions and awards of contracts
are subject to his approval. The accounting agent, who is appointed by the
Minister of Finance, but reports to ONEP's general manager, is responsible
for all payments and has to ensure that payments are made only within approved
budgets and available funds.



- 32 -
Personnel and Training
4.09      ONEP's salary structure, though somewhat lower than that of the
private sector, is more or less adequate when considering the whole compen-
sation package designed to attract qualified personnel interested in the
career prospects of a fast-growing organization. From some 1,300, employed in
its water activities in 1972, ONEP's staff has increased to 2,353 at the end
of 1978, out of which 72 were senior staff. In 1972, ONEP relied heavily on
expatriate staff when about 40 expatriates were employed, but this has changed
considerably, as now only 14 expatriates are employed in professional posi-
tions. This reduction was achieved by providing scholarships abroad and in
Morocco in fields related to ONEP's technical operations.
4.10      Faced with a shortage of skilled operators and workers capable of
being promoted to a foreman position, ONEP is within the scope of the first
water supply project (Loan 850-MOR),   establishing a training center, that
when completed will offer one to two year training courses for mechanics,
treatment plant operators and equipment specialists. However the first
course started in 1977 in temporary facilities and will initially provide 31
graduates. By 1982, the training program should be fully implemented and
provide ONEP with about 120 graduates annually. In order to acquaint newly
recruited staff members with the job requirements, ONEP orgahizes each year
several 3-month familiarization courses. However, similar good recruitment
results were not always realized in the accounting and finance department.
The post of director of finance that was vacant for some time has recently
been filled. Competent and experienced staff on the division head level has
been recruited recently and should ensure smooth and adequate operation of the
new accounting system in the future (para 4.12).
Accounting System
4.11      ONEP's accounts are kept on an accrual basis.  All bookkeeping
transactions with the exception of billing have so far been performed on a
manual basis. Due to the volume of the postings and the extension of ONEP's
services over the whole country, delays have been unavoidable in closing
the accounts at the end of the fiscal year. Also, in numerous instances,
adjustments had to be made in later years. Although according to the loan
agreement of the first water supply project (Loan 850-MOR) ONEP was required
to keep separate accounts for its water and non-water activities, this was
only partially possible due to allocating difficulties and the manual posting
system.
4.12      As envisaged in the first water supply project (Loan 850-MOR),
ONEP retained the services of management consultants who developed a new
accounting system, including billing, cost accounting, cash flow forecasting,
budgeting and inventory controls, together with appropriate procedures.
This new system will overcome the existing deficiencies. Although all trans-
actions are properly recorded, the present system does not avail itself as a
management tool. Cost accounting is rudimentary, and recording of inventory
levels and of consumption of materials leave much to be desired. Part of the
new accounting system has already been implemented with the assistance of



- 33 -
management consultants. Completion of the implemention should proceed with-
out further delay. ONEP has acquired data processing equipment, and recruited
analysts, programmers and operators, and no constraints exist on the technical
side. Assurances were obtained from ONEP during negotiations that it will
continue to employ consultants for implementing the new accounting system
and that it will see to it that this system is implemented expeditiously in
order that it is in full operation by December 31, 1979.
Billing and Collection
4.13      ONEP bills the regies every month for the volume of water consumed.
All other customers are billed quarterly for the volume of water consumed and
for a fixed fee covering meter rent and maintenance of connection. Bills are
considered overdue after 45 days. Management consultants have proposed modifi-
cations which would foresee billing of individual customers on a rotating
basis every three months and reduce the payment period to 30 days. Moreover,
meter-reading and collecting would be performed by different individuals in
order to avoid collusion. These modifications will be implemented together
with the new accounting system (para. 4.12).
4.14      Collection from individual customers has been good partly because
of the possibility of water cut-off, and partly because of collection through
the judicial system. Collection from government agencies, some regies and
municipalities had, however, over the years deteriorated. The Government
has recently settled to ONEP all arrears due for water sales prior to June 1,
1978 to its agencies the regies of Marrakech and Safi and the municipality
of Sale. However, in order to recuperate these overdue water bills the
Government has entrusted ONEP to collect on its behalf these amounts.
4.15      In accordance with existing procedures, the funds for the payment
of water charges covering the water consumption of the government agencies
between June 1 and May 31 of each subsequent year are included in the opera-
tional budget of the following year. The guarantee agreement of Loan 850-MOR
foresees that all measures are taken by the Government to ensure prompt pay-
ment of water bills by government departments, municipalities and agencies.
Time-consuming administrative procedures have, however, not allowed for timely
payment of water charges and have caused budgeted amounts to lapse. Though
modifications of the existing procedures aimed at improving the payment of
water and electricity charges by government agencies were decreed by the Prime
Minister and Minister of Finance in 1976 and 1977, these were only partially
successful. The Covernment is aware of this problem and has recently insti-
tuted a special interministerial commission that would among other tasks
recommend amendments to present legislation regulating payment of utility
bills and lay down principles and safeguards to ensure prompt payment in
the future. The report of this commission has so far not been finalized
as the problem of settling bills for services rendered is not limited to the
water supply sector. However, agreement was reached during negotiations that
the Government will ensure that its agencies, the regies and municipalities
make payments due to water distributing agencies including ONEP within 120
days.



- 34 -
Taxes
4.16      All water sales are subject to a 6.38% sales tax.  In addition, a
7.5% tax for services rendered is levied on the flat charges for meter rental,
maintenance of house connection, and the labor component of the cost of house
connections. ONEP is not liable for income taxes, but has to pay the sales
taxes included in its purchases and acquisitions. The rates vary between
4.17% and 15% according to the nature of the goods procured and average at
about 11.25% for goods and services procured for carrying out ONEP's invest-
ment program. A tax credit against the water sales tax is earned by ONEP
for all materials used in the production of water such as energy, fuel and
chemicals. A similar provision exists for the recuperation of taxes included
in capital goods procured for the production, not however, for the distribu-
tion of water. This tax credit is earned only once the works are commissioned,
and is in general limited by the annual amount of taxes collected on water
sales and related services in the year of commissioning.
Audit and Insurance
4.17      The existing agreement between ONEP and the Bank provides for the
external audit of ONEP by independent auditors. The agreement foresees that
the audited financial statements be submitted to the Bank within four months
after the close of the financial year. Recent audits have been received by
the Bank with substantial delay partially because of late submission of the
statements by ONEP to the auditors, partly due to the time needed for field
audits of ONEP's regional offices, and partly due to the difficulties
encountered with the present bookkeeping system (para. 4.11). Even after
the reorganization of the accounting department is completed, it will not be
possible for ONEP to comply with the existing four months for submitting the
audit to the Bank, as its board has first to approve the financial statements.
Furthermore, adequate time must be allocated for preparing an exhaustive
audit. Existing agreements have therefore been amended to the extent that ONEP
will, starting with its fiscal year beginning January 1, 1979, submit the audit
reports within six months after the close of its fiscal year.
4.18      The quality of the audit performed by the Paris office of Peat,
Marwick and Mitchell, has been adequate. So far, ONEP's accounts have not
been certified due to numerous adjustments that have to be made in view of
the present bookkeeping system and because titles for a considerable part of
ONEP's assets relating to its operations in the country's interior still have
to be established. In order to complete this time-consuming task, ONEP will
have to initiate a special program. Assurances were therefore obtained from
ONEP during negotiations that it will on or before June 30, 1980 take inventory
of all its assets and will promptly thereafter take all action necessary to
establish legal title to its assets.
4.19      ONEP carries insurance adequately covering the risks of a public
utility. The policies are with a Moroccan insurance company and relate to
workman's compensation, and third party liability of its operations.



- 35 -
CHAPTER V
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Background
5.01      ONEP enjoys a large degree of operational freedom, though major
financial decisions are subject to Government approval (paragraph 4.05).
Practically all water distributed by ONEP is metered. Bulk water sales
account for about 78% of total revenues and the remaining 22% are from
retail customers. New retail customers are required to pay for the cost
of the connection, to contribute towards the capital cost of extending the
distribution system and to deposit an advance covering about three months
of water sales. All retail customers pay quarterly charges for maintenance
of their connections and meter rent.
5.02       In order to alleviate the financial burden resulting from the
payment of the cost of installing the house connection and the contribution
towards extension of the distribution system, ONEP provides new low income
customers with the possibility of paying with their quarterly water bill
an amount equivalent to an 8% ten year annuity of the cost of installing the
connection. However, the contribution towards the extension of the system
has to be paid for in advance and is reduced by 25% to 50% depending on whether
the agglomerations are incorporated or not.
Past and Present Position
5.03      ONEP operates water supply systems in about 80 rural centers through
which it incurs losses. Operation of these centers has been entrusted to ONEP
by the Government as no other competent agency exists. As the operation of
these centers does not benefit from the economies of scale found in operating
the water production and distribution system along the Mid-Atlantic Coast,
production costs in some of these centers are up to eight times higher than
along the Mid-Atlantic Coast. Tariffs in line with these costs would be
prohibitively high and might add to the exodus from the rural areas to densely
populated coastal centers. The Government is presently providing a special
contribution out of its annual budget of DH 5.0 million to cover a small part
of the cost of these operations. This annual budgetary contribution would
cease at the end of 1981.
5.04       In forecasting the operation of these rural centers, the appraisal
of the first water supply project assumed increases in operating efficiency,
significantly lower water sales volume, and thus smaller remaining losses
that could be absorbed by ONEP's other water activities. Since then, however,
operating costs have increased significantly because of increases in the
volume of water sold and because improvements in operating efficiency can be
achieved only over a longer period. Instead of making direct payments to
ONEP to cover the operating losses of the rural centers, the Government has
contributed heavily towards ONEP's investment program and will do so in the
future.  In 1977, the Government provided DH 168.5 million and has committed



- 36 -
DH 63.15 million towards ONEP's investment program for 1978. Part of the
funds provided by the Government originate through a variety of taxes in the
water supply sector, such as taxes on water sales, services rendered and goods
procured (paragraph 4.16). Levying of taxes on water sales is rather uncommon
in the sector, particularly at these high levels. Based on a conservative
estimate, the Government collected through water sales taxes about DH 16.0
million in 1977 and DH 20.0 million in 1978. On the other hand, DH 15.9
million would have been required by ONEP in 1977 and DH 19.5 million in 1978
to offset the operating losses of the rural centers. To the extent that the
amounts collected through the water sales tax are brought back to ONEP through
the Government contributions for its development program it is reasonable to
admit them as revenues for calculating ONEP's rate of return. Following this
reasoning, ONEP achieved a rate of return of 2.3% in 1977, and 2.7% in 1978 on
its net fixed assets in operations in compliance with the convenanted rate of
return of the first water supply project (Loan 850-MOR). ONEP revalues its
assets from time to time. The present valuation of existing assets is realistic.
5.05      Since its creation ONEP has, except for the Bank loan (Loan 850-MOR)
and a loan of DH 25.0 million (US$6.75 million) from the African Development
Bank (AfDB) in 1978> not contracted any other long-term borrowing. Its invest-
ment program has, apart from these loans,been more or less completely fi-
nanced by the Government. As ONEP's activities are primarily in the field of
bulk water production, customer contributions to its investment program have
been modest. However, endusers of water make substantial contributions to the
investment program of the water distributing regies, as these regies finance
between 90% and 100% of their investments through customer contributions
payable at the time of connecting to the distribution system and through water
charges.    Though ONEP's operations generated funds internally, these had to
be used to finance increases in working capital, primarily the substantial
build-up of accounts receivable. Accounts receivable increased from DH 51.42
million (US$13.46 million) in 1975, to DH 120.56 million (US$31.56 million)
by 1977. Approximately DH 75.70 million (US$19.82 million) of this amount
relates to water sales, with the major part being due from Government agencies
and regies (paragraph 4.14). The remaining balance includes various debtors
and a provision at year's end for water sales not yet billed. The Government
settled in early 1979 all arrears due for water sales prior to June 1, 1978 to
its agencies, the regie of Marrakech and Safi and the municipality of Sale
which amounted to DH 52.00 million (US$13.61 million). Due to its non-water
activities, ONEP had, until the end of 1976 and well into 1977, a considerable
cash balance which provided it with the necessary safety cushion. Existing
cash balances, as well as their future forecast levels are adequate.
Tariffs, Rate of Return
5.06      Present tariff levels went into effect in October 1977, following
a comprehensive study of the cost of developing future water resources. This
study was part of the first water supply project and covered the whole country.
The finally proposed production and distribution tariff levels were established
on the long-term development cost of future water sources in different areas.
In order to allow for maintaining the envisaged ratio of self-financing and
cost recovery through the covenanted rate of return, the study recommended



- 37 -
annual adjustments for inflationary increases. The finally decreed tariff
levels are based on 1975 cost data, and are adjusted for 1976 price levels.
5.07      The tariff structure is adequate.  Whereas the bulk tariff is
uniform, the retail tariff distinguishes between residential, cnmmercial and
industrial usage. The residential tariff provides a quarterly n,aximum con-
sumption of 30 m3 at a concessionary rate. This quantity is regarded suffi-
cient to meet the basic water needs of an average sized family. The highest
tariff bracket applies to residential and commercial use in excess of 30 m3
per quarter. Retail levels for ONEP's customers in the smaller centers in
the country's interior apply the same principle but are much lower than those
along the Mid-Atlantic Coast. Annex 6 provides a comparison of previous
tariff levels and the tariffs in effect as of October 1, 1977.
5.08      A tariff adjustment for inflationary increases was foreseen for
1979. Such an adjustment would have allowed ONEP to meet without difficulties
a 2% rate of return on its net fixed assets used for the production of water
for bulk sales for 1979. ONEP has, however, in compliance with the Govern-
ment's austerity program managed to reduce its operating costs accordingly
and will be able to meet for 1979 a 2% rate of return on its net fixed assets
used for the production of water for bulk sales. This together with that part
of the committed Government contributions towards ONEP's investment program
that would offset the operating losses of the rural centers, would enable ONEP
to achieve a 2% rate of return on its overall net fixed assets by end 1979.
5.09      However, future tariff increases primarily for adjustments of
operating costs will become necessary. To a considerable extent, the magni-
tude of these increases will depend on ONEP's achievement in controlling
operating expenses, in particular of the rural centers, and in providing
water of acceptable quality at reasonable cost along the Mid-Atlantic Coast.
While the latter should be accomplished through the envisaged technical
assistance (paragraph 4.03), a study must be undertaken to identify ways
to reduce operating costs of the rural centers. However, this study can only
start once the accounting system is fully implemented (paragraph 4.12).
Agreement was therefore obtained during negotiations: (i) that ONEP will
start by the latest January 1, 1980, a study under terms of reference accept-
able to the Bank to determine ways of increasing its operating efficiency, in
particular in the rural centers; (ii) that the study be completed within nine
months after its start; (iii) that this study be made available to the Bank
for its reasonable comments; and (iv) that implementation of the recommenda-
tions be initiated by January 1, 1981. Terms of reference of such a study are
found in Annex 7.
5.10      Existing agreements commit ONEP to achieve a 2% rate of return on
its properly valued or revalued net fixed assets in operation until the end
of 1980, and 7% thereafter. The rate of return covenant of the first water
supply project was established according to the projections prepared at that



- 38 -
time. It was then assumed that ONEP would take over a private concession that
supplied about 63 million m3 per year to Casablanca. However, the Government
has decided for the time being not to exercise the right to acquire this
concession. Its takeover by ONEP would have improved its profitability and
would have added more than 1 percentage point to ONEP's rate of return. This
would have enabled ONEP to meet the convenanted rate of return of 7% by 1981,
together with the envisaged tariff adjustments and the transfer of taxes
collected from the more affluent water consumers through Government contri-
butions offsetting the losses of the rural centers. ONEP could, however,
meet the existing rate of return covenant of 7% from 1982 onwards. Thus,
it appears reasonable to require a 5% rate of return in 1981 while allowing
for a one year delay in the application of the existing rate of return
covenant.
5.11      Existing covenants have therefore been reinstated in the lending
agremeents, modified, however, to the following extent: (i) that those parts
of the Government's contributions fully committed towards ONEP's investment
program which would offset the operating losses of the rural centers operated
by ONEP, be treated as revenues for the purpose of calculating the rate of
return, and (ii) that ONEP achieve a 2% rate of return on its net fixed assets
properly valued or revalued for each year till 1980, 5% for 1981 and 7% for
each year thereafter. In view of the program to monitor and to increase the
operating efficiency of ONEP, agreement was reached during negotiations that
ONEP prepares by the end of October of each year, a forecast of its revenues
and operating cost of the next year that would enable the Governrent to review
the adequacy of tariff levels for meeting the covenanted rate of return, and
that a copy of such forecast be furnished to the Bank.
Financing Plan
5.12      The table below sets out ONEP's estimated requirements for the
project construction period (1979-1983) and the sources from which they would
be met assuming tariff increases as mentioned above:



- 39 -
1979-1983
DR           US$        _
--- millions ---
REQUIREMENTS
Project Expenditures                               623.71         163.28     42.2
Expenditures for First Water Supply Project         43.21          11.32      2.9
Other projects including Renewal                   811.38         212.40     54.9
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                    1,478.30         387.00    100.0
SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation                           379.42          99.33
Less:  Debt Service                                183.78          48.11
Increase in Cash Balance                     0.44           0.13
Add:   Decrease in Other Working Capital            42.95          11.25
Net Internal Cash Generation                       238.15          62.34    16.1
BORROWINGS
Proposed Bank Loan                                 150.89          39.50    10.2
Proceeds of Existing Bank Loan                      25.10           6.57     1.7
Proceeds of ADB Loan                                25.00           6.55     1.7
Other Loan for Project                             127.37          33.34     8.6
Other Borrowings, unidentified                     138.00          36.13     9.3
Long Term Payables                                  52.00          13.61     3.5
TOTAL BORROWINGS INCLUDING
LONG-TERM PAYABLES                      518.36         135.70    35.1
Government Equity                                  673.05         176.19    45.5
Customers Contributions                             48.74          12.76     3.3
Subtotal                                721.79         188.95    48.8
TOTAL SOURCES                         1,478.30         387.00   100.0
5.13      Apart from project expenditures, the proposed requirements include
DH 440.66 million (US$115.36 million) for investments in bulk water production
facilities and DH 278.70 million (US$72.96 million) for increasing the distri-
bution capacity of the rural centers. Net internal cash generation would
provide about 16% of the investment requirements and customer contributions
about 3%. About DH 74.4 million (US$19.5 million) of the Government's contri-
bution of DH 673.1 million (US$176.2 million) would be collected by the Govern-
ment over the construction period through customs duties on equipment and



- 40 -
materials acquired by ONEP for the investment program. The loan from the
African Development Bank (AfDB) of DH 25.0 million (US$6.57 million) was con-
tracted by ONEP in 1978 for financing part of the cost of extending water
production facilities for Marrakech. Other borrowing, amounting to DH 138.0
million (US$36.13 million), from as yet unidentified sources, is assumed to
finance part of ONEP's investment program primarily related to bulk water
production facilities outside the project area from 1981 onwards. Should
these loans not become available as anticipated, implementation of that part
of the investment program would be delayed, which however would not cause
shortages in the project area.
5.14       The US$39.5 million (DH 150.89 million) on-lent to ONEP out of the
proposed Bank loan of US$49.0 million (DH 187.17 million) would finance the
foreign exchange component of the bulk water production facilities along the
Mid-Atlantic Coast and in the Greater Agadir area, as well as the transmission
pipeline in the Greater Agadir area. The terms of the Bank loan which assume
a maturity of 20 years including four years of grace and an annual interest
rate of 7.9% would be passed on to ONEP which would also carry the foreign
exchange risk. Another loan of US$33.34 million (DH 127.37 million) would be
required to finance the foreign exchange cost of the bulk transmission pipeline
from the Bou Regreg treatment plant to Casablanca (paras 3.18 and 3.19).
Future Finances
5.15      ONEP's forecast financial statements through 1985 are shown in
Annex 8. The principal assumptions used in the projection were as follows:
(i) tariffs would be annually adjusted for meeting the covenanted rate of
return, until 1983 however, only for increases in operating costs caused by
inflation, as Government contributions are committed that would offset the
operating losses of the rural centers, and (ii) operating costs would increase
by 11% for 1979 and 7% thereafter. ONEP's financial performance is expected
to improve. Financing of annual investments out of internally generated funds
and customers contributions would vary from 28% in 1979 to 8% in 1980. From
there it would gradually increase to 39% by 1983.
5.16       Internal cash generation should cover debt service adequately.
Debt service coverage is projected to be 1.4 in 1979 and not to fall below 1.7
thereafter. The existing loan agreement (Loan 850-MOR) sets forth limitations
on incurrence of debt. Accordingly, ONEP is committed not to incur any
long-term debt (except for the project covered by the agreement) without the
Bank's concurrence unless its net revenues at the time of incurrence before
depreciation and interest are at least 1.5 times the maximum future annual
debt service on the proposed loan and existing debts. This commitment has
been restated in the Project Agreement.



- 41 -
CHAPTER VI
JUSTIFICATION
Least Cost Solution
6.01      The project aims at improving water production along the Mid-
Atlantic Coast and in the Greater Agadir area as well as improving the water
distribution along the Mid-Atlantic Coast. The design of the proposed systems
is in accordance with sound engineering principles utilizing acceptable design
criteria and valid approaches. The overall design of the proposed systems,
pipe sizes, configuration of the pipelines, as well as location and dimension
of the pumping stations and the treatment plants were reviewed by the mission.
The proposed project represents the least cost solution for the expansion of
the water production facilities along the Mid-Atlantic coast and in Greater
Agadir based on discount rates varying between 6% and 12%.
Institution Building
6.02      The establishment of ONEP as an efficient and well-managed national
authority responsible for meeting the country's demand of potable water
continues to be the main objective of the Bank. Implementation of the new
organizational structure, based on the findings of the management study
financed under the first project, is one step towards achieving this objec-
tive. Furthermore, completion of the implementation of a new accounting system
should provide the necessary data to operate ONEP effectively. The proposed
technical assistance for optimizing the raw water treatment process at the Bou
Regreg treatment plant should provide additional training for treatment plant
operators. Finally, the envisaged study for improving ONEP's operating effi-
ciency, particularly that of the rural centers, should make ONEP's staff at
various levels aware of the need to control operating costs.
Impact on the Urban Poor
6.03      Approximately 300,000 inhabitants living at or below the urban
poverty threshold in the project area along the Mid-Atlantic Coast would
directly benefit from the project through the establishment of a revolving
fund to finance house connections of low income customers of the water dis-
tributing regies of Casablanca (RAD), Rabat-Sale (RED), and Kenitra (RAK).
As the revolving operation would allow for financing of house connections
beyond 1983, the benefits would increase in the longer run. The envisaged
payment in installments of up to five years for the cost of installing the
house connections and related charges, would, based on 1978 income data, be
affordable to these customers. As several families would share such a con-
nection, the related charges would be within 1.6% and 3.3% of their incomes.
In a small number of cases, where a connection would serve only one family
and the contribution towards extending the distribution system would have
to be paid, the total charges would correspond to 6.6% of their income.
Furthermore, the access to safe water of those urban poor living in shanty-
towns in the project area would be improved through the envisaged extension



- 42 -
of water distribution points. Numerous obstacles, such as insecurity of
tenure and layout of settlements, currently prevent the installation of
individual house connections in these areas. Thus, approximately 900,000
persons living in these areas at or below the urban poverty threshold would
either directly or indirectly benefit from the project. About 12% of the
loan amount would be attributable to the urban poor. The project would create
employment of some 2,500 unskilled and 315 skilled workers over three years.
6.04      In addition, the water production components of the project would
ensure that water in sufficient quantity will be available for this part of
the population, for in the case of water shortages, they would be the first to
be severely affected by irregular service.
Economic Analysis
6.05      The overriding justification for the proposed project is, as far as
the water production facilities are concerned, the necessity of making suffi-
cient supplies available to provide one of the basic requirements for further
development. Through the fund for financing house connections of low income
customers, that part of the population that up to now has not had adequate
access to a safe water supply, would derive considerable benefits. The economic
justification for the Bou Regreg-Casablanca and Agadir components is indicated
by the fact that the current retail water tariff would be equal to the long-run
average incremental cost of water, based on a discount rate of 8%, which is
considered adequate for Morocco. Because of the progressive tariff structure
at the retail level, consumers using quantities in excess of 30 m3 per quarter
have already demonstrated their willingness to pay for the cost of providing
additional water.
Risks
6.06      The projected tariff increases are not expected to have a major
influence on water consumption as most of these tariff increases are likely to
be passed on to consumers using in excess of 30 m3 per quarter. The risks of
not achieving the technical, financial and organizational objectives of those
project components where ONEP is responsible for implementation are low. How-
ever, the forecast increases in the number of household connections by low
income customers, in particular the urban poor, are more difficult to achieve,
as they depend on the willingness of the future consumers to respond to the
program of installing the house connections, and the cooperation of the water
distributing regies.



- 43 -
CHAPTER VII
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters
I through VI of this report the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$49.0 million to the Kingdom of Morocco for a term of 20 years including
4 years of grace.
May 18, 1979



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Study of Regional Water Resources that could possibly be
used for the supply of Greater Agadir
Tentative Terms of Reference
Principal: Hydraulic Department (Direction de l'Hydraulique)
I. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Morocco intends to retain the services of con-
sultants to conduct a feasibility study of the water supply to Greater
Agadir, and on the basis of such study to prepare a master plan for the
water supply to this area up to the year 2000.
1.02      The Government of Morocco has requested a loan from the World
Bank to assist in the financing of the extension of water production facili-
ties for Greater Agadir. Part of the proceeds of this loan will be used to
finance the foreign exchange cost of this study.
Il. Objectives
The objectives of the study are:
(i) to inventory the available water resources that could
possibly be used for the supply of water to Greater
Agadir;
(ii)  to project and stage the future development of these
resources;
(iii)  to present recommendations regarding the improvement of
the present system of management and allocation of resources;
and
(iv)  to prepare a master plan for the supply of water to Greater
Agadir up to the year 2000.



- 45 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 2
III. Project Area
3.01       The project area is the lower Souss Valley, and includes:
(i)  the Ahmar Boudhar well-field, the area of Oulad Teima
and the zones irrigated from the Oued Issen, in the east;
(ii)  the basins of the Oueds Tamghart and Tamri in the north;
and
(iii)  the Chtoukas plain up to the limits of the basin of the
Oued Massa in the south.
IV. Method of Study
4.01       The study shall be based in particular on the results of studies
and investigations executed by or for different Government departments and
services.
4.02       The data made available shall be critically examined by the consul-
tants, and completed, supplemented or updated when necessary.  On the basis of
these data, several solutions are to be prepared and evaluated for the long-
term water supply to Greater Agadir.  After the Government has made a selection,
the chosen solution will be elaborated and the master plan for the supply of
water to Greater Agadir up to the year 2000 will be drawn up.
V. Study to be Carried out by the Consultants
The study shall be carried out in three phases:
Phase I - Critical Examination
5.01       A critical examination of all existing data and studies relevant to
the potential water resources, including:
(i) those already in use, or in the process of being mobilized,
in the well-fields of South Agadir, the Admine forest,
Ahmar boudhar, and those of the Tamzaourt reservoir in
the Oued Issen;
(ii) those already exploited for agricultural use and those
destined for the extension of the irrigation area of Oulad
Teima;



ANNEX 1
- 46 -                        Page 3
(iii) those to be mobilized in the aquifers of the fossil river bed
of the Oued Souss, the Chtouka plains and the surface waters
from the Oueds Tamghart and Tamri.
5.02      For each basin, special factors that could influence the cost of water
or its availability have to be considered, e.g.,:
(i) the risk of sea water intrusion resulting from over-
exploitation (mining) of aquifers near the ocean;
(ii)  earlier obtained rights on ground water extraction;
(iii)  water pollution;
(iv)  recycling for agricultural purposes of purified effluent
of the envisaged sewage treatment plant of Agadir;
(v) the effect of silting, infiltration and evaporation on
the capacity of impounded waters;
(vi)  socio-economic data concerning population, buildings and
infrastructure that might be affected by the proposed
projects;
(vii)  the quantities of water extracted by private installations;
(viii)  floods and flood control;
(ix)  the stability of river beds, in particular when diversions
are recommended;
(x) improved irrigation efficiency.
5.03      A critical examination of existing data and studies relative to
the water demand of all consumers in the Greater Agadir area irrespective of
their source of supply until the year 2000. The demand forecast of potable
and industrial water must be based on realistic hypotheses of population
growth. increase of livinR standard, and on the urban, touristical and indus-
trial development. The demand forecast for agricultural water will have to
be based on the expected developments in the agricultural sector.
5.04      A report at the end of Phase I shall be submitted to the principal
and shall give a description of investigations, studies and results obtained
so far, it shall contain an inventory of all water resources in the project
area, an evaluation of the present and future water demand, and an indication
of the quantities of water available for Greater Agadir's water supply.
Phase II - Feasibility Study
5.05      During Phase II, the most promising solutions to satisfy the demand
have to be determined and formulated in order that the Government may select



- 47 -                       ANNEX l
Page 4
a long-term development plan on allocation and management of resources,
based on the results of Phase I and taking into account the economic cost of
the proposed solutions.
5.06      The different solutions shall be submitted in a report in which the
results of the studies and investigations are shown, as well as recommenda-
tions on supplementary studies and investigations to be undertaken. The
consultants shall pay particular attention to the influence of an eventual
lowering of the water table, and to water quality aspects. The report
shall also contain:
(i) a number of solutions for the water supply to Greater
Agadir, with dimensions of major structures and pipelines;
(ii)  an implementation schedule for each solution;
(iii)  preliminary estimates for each solution of construction
and operating cost, as a function of time, indicating
foreign and local components;
(iv)  an economic comparison of the proposed solutions;
(v) an assessment of the environmental impact of the proposed
solution;
(vi) water quality considerations;
(vii)  recommendations on the organization and staffing of the
authority which will be charged with the management of the
system and suggestions on a training program;
(viii)  a description of, and comments on, actual legislation
relevant to groundwater extraction;
(ix) proposals to legalize the extraction of groundwater by
issuing irrevocable authorizations limited in time how-
ever, and taking into account the studies done so far
by a special Government commission;
(x)  an evaluation and quantification of earlier obtained rights
to extract groundwater;
(xi) a proposal for setting up a responsible authority which
shall prepare and keep up to date a register of all
wells, and shall have the faculty to issue extraction
licenses and shall check the quantities withdrawn.
Phase III - Master Plan
5.07      This phase will be started after the Government has selected one
of the proposed solutions. It should result in the drawing up of the master



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                               Page 5
plan for the water supply to Greater Agadir until the year 2000, and recommenda-
tions on the allocation of resources.
5.08      A provisional final report shall depict all results obtained during
Phases I, II and III, and in particular:
(i) a summary;
(ii)  an inventory of resources;
(iii) an evaluation of present and future demand;
(iv)  a description of the selected solution;
(v) an implementation program;
(vi)  a note on the exploitation of the installations;
(vii) an economic justification of the selected solution;
(viii) recommendations on the allocation of water resources;
(ix)  a timetable on site reconnaissance and well construction
for the exploitation of groundwater; and
(x) succinct preliminary project documents for all civil structures
necessary for the mobilization of surface and groundwater..
VI.  Reports
6.01      The reports at the end of Phases I and II and the provisional report
after Phase III, shall be submitted in twenty copies. The final report shall be
submitted in fifty copies, after all interested parties have been able to make
their comments that shall be incorporated in the report. The summary shall be
submitted in fifty additional copies.
VII. Timetable
7.01      The time allowed for the study is as follows:
Phase I                                         Four months
Phase II                                        Four months
Time needed by Government to
make its selection                              Three months
Phase III including provisional report          Four months
Comments by interested parties                  Three months
Final Report                                    Two months



ANNEX 1
- 49 -                        Page 6
VIII. Existing Reports and Studies
8.01      Rather than repeat studies, the consultants shall utilize existing
information in the different departments and services of the rcocerned Minis-
tries. Also, aerial photographs and topographical information is available.
Studies on related subjects have been prepared by:
-    Institut d'Amenagement et d'Urbanisme de la Region
d'Ile-de-France (IAURIF)
-    Societe Anonyme Francaise d'Etudes et de Gestion (SAFEGE)
-    Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
-    World Health Organization (WHO)
-    Electrowatt
-    Bureau Central pour l'Equipement d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM)
-    Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire (SCET)
IX. Background Information
9.01      The City of Agadir obtains its water from groundwater sources
at increasingly greater distances. At the moment, the Ahmar Boudhar well-field
north of Oulad Teima is being developed and surface water will be used in
the near future by the withdrawal of 300 l/s from the reservoir behind the
Tamzaourt dam on the Oued Issen more than 30 km east of Agadir. The existing
sources, together with the sources being developed and under construction
are expected to satisfy the demand until 1985.
9.02      The Government is now completing exhaustive investigations, the
results of which shall serve together with information already available, as
basic data for the study as described in the above terms of reference. These
investigations specifically executed by or for the Hydraulic Department of the
Ministry of Equipment and "Promotion Nationale" include:
(i) prospection of groundwater of the aquifers of the Oued
Souss fossil river bed, the Turonien and Chtouka aquifer;
(ii)  study by simulation of the exploitation of groundwater
in the project area;
(iii)  hydrological study of the Oueds Tamghart and Tamri;



- 50 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 7
(iv)  study of the retaining structures of the Oueds Tamghart
and Tamri; and
(v)  study of the regulation of the surface flows of the Oueds
Tamghart and Tamri and updating of the study to regulate
the flow of the Oued Issen.



ANNEX 1
- 51 -                        Page 8
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Investigations to gather data for a
Water Resources Study for Greater Agadir
Tentative Terms of Reference
Executing agency: Hydraulic Department (Direction de l'Hydraulique)
I. Introduction
1.01      In order to prepare the ground for a study of water resources in
the Greater Agadir area to be executed by Consultants, the Hydraulic Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Equipment and "Promotion Nationale" undertakes to
carry out a number of investigations of which the results, together with
already known information, shall be made available to those consultants
and be used as basic data for the study.
1.02      The Government of Morocco has requested a loan from the World Bank
to assist in the financing of the extension of the water production facilities
for Greater Agadir. Part of the proceeds of this loan will be used to finance
the foreign cost of these investigations.
II. Objective
2.01      The objective of the investigations is to gather information and
data on potential water resources in the project area.
III. Project Area
3.01      The project area is the lower Souss Valley, and includes:
-    the Ahmar Boudhar well field, the area of Oulad Teima and
the zones irrigated from the Oued Issen, in the east;
-    the basins of the Oueds Tamghart and Tamri in the north;
-    the Chtoukas plain up to the limits of the basin of the Oued
Massa in the south.



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                        Page 9
IV. Method of Execution
4.01       The Hydraulic Department shall engage specialized enterprises,
acceptable to the Bank, and have them execute the investigations as described
below.
V. Investigations to be executed by specialized enterprises include:
-    Prospection of ground water of the aquifers of the Oued Souss
fossil river bed, the Turonien and the Chtouka aquifer;
-    simulation of the exploitation of ground water in the
project area based on the results of the above;
-    construction of two hydrological and flow measurement
stations on the Oueds Tamghart and Tamri;
-    soil investigations for retaining structures in the
Oueds Tamghart and Tamri.



-53 -                   Annex 2
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Item                                  Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total          %
----- DH Millions -----    ----- US$ Millions ----
I.     AGADIR
Phase I (Ahmar Boudhar)
Equipment for well field,
control station, and two
chlorination stations            2.80     3.42      6.22     0.73      0.90      1.63     0.9
Civil works - 1,500 m3
balancing reservoirs, 6
houses (lSr + 5Jr), control
station, 2 chlorination
stations and in well field       1.86     0.91      2.77     0.49      0.23      0.72     0.4
Pipelines in well field            7.38     5.57    12.95       1.93     1.46      3.39      1.9
Transmission main ta Agadir       16.36    12.35    28.71       4.28     3.23      7.51      4.1
Electrical transmission line       5.00     5.00    10.00       1.31     1.31      2.62     1.4
Phase Il (Sidi BouShab)
Treatment plant equipment          2.44     2.99      5.43      0.64     0.78      1.42      0.8
Treatment plant civil works        2.47     1.22      3.69      0.65     0.32      0.97      0.5
Transmission main from 0. Issen  2.51       1.90      4.41      0.66     0.50      1.16     0.6
SUB-TOTAL AGADIR                  40.82    33.36    74.18    10.69       8.73    19.42    10.6
Il. BOU REGREG
Booster pumping stations equipment   4.38        5.35     9.73      1.15      1.40     2.55      1.4
Booster pumping stations civil
works      1.88      0.94      2.82     0.49      0.25      0.74     0.4
Pumping station equipment              8.99    10.99    19.98       2.35      2.88     5.23      2.9
Pumping station civil works            1.89      0.93     2.82      0.50      0.24     0.74      0.4
Pressure main                          5.79      9.86    15.65      1.52      2.58     4.10      2.2
Treatment plant - equipment           18.05    22.06    40.11       4.73      5.77    10.50      5.8
Treatment plant - civil works         31.18    15.36    46.54       8.16      4.02    12.18      6.7
Trunk main to CASA - (parallel
co-financing)    117.59    93.67   211.26    30.78    24.52    55.30    30.3
Trunk main to RABAT                    3.12      2.34     5.46      0.82      0.61     1.43      0.8
Trunk main to SALE                     8.08      6.10    14.18      2.11      1.60     3.71      2.0
Staff Housing (2OSr + 15Jr)            4.70      2.32     7.02      1.423     0.61     1.84      1.0
SUB-TOTAL BOU REGREG             205.65   169.92   375.57    53.84    44.48    98.32    53.9
SUB-TOTAL AGADIR &
BOU REGREG           246.47   203.28   449.75    64.53    53.21   117.74    64.5
III. Engineering & Supervision        13.46    13.46    26.92       3.52      3.52     7.04      3.9
IV. Technical Assistance &
Training          0.19     1.03      1.22      0.05     0.27      0.32      0.2
V. House Connections                  32.47    32.47    64.94       8.50      8.50    17.00      9.3
VI. Studies                            4.76      3.82     8.58      1.25      1.00     2.25      1.2
VII. Physical Contingencies           29.02    23.99    53.01       7.60      6.28    13.88      7.6
VIII. Price Escalation                56.33    36.48    92.81    14.73        9.56    24.29    13.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST               382.70   314.53   697.23   100.18    82.34   182.52   100.0



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANBUAL PROJECT INVESTIEN TS
1979                         1980                          1981                            1982                         1983                             TOTAL
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign,    Total    Local    Foreijm              Total
Cost (lnclunive of c-ntinge.nciea
5 englneerinR)
Onu Reocee
31 Booster Pusrping station                3.14      3.05       6.19      4.17     4.28        8.45       -        -           -                  -                                _                7.31      7.33         14.64
B2 Ras Water Pusping otation               0.37     0.38        0.75      4.10     4.97        9.07     7.00      7.00       14.00    1.24      1.51        2.75       -         -          -      12.71     13.86         26.57
13 Pressure moin                           0.25      0.25       0.50      3.97     6.67       10.64     2.65      4.43        7.08       -        -           -        -         -          -       6.87     11.35i        18.22
B4 Treatsent plant                         0.75      0.75       8.50    12.36      9.64       22.00    34.86    26.72       61.58    11.64      8.91       20.35       -         -           -     59.61     46.02        105.63   c
B5 Transmission main Casablam.a            3.49      3.47       6.96    59.77    47.93       107.70    59.77    47.93      107.70    13.28    10.66        23.94       -         _           _    136.31    109.99        246.30
K6 Trann=ission main Rabat                 1.85      1.42       3.27      1.76     1.33        3.09       -        -          -          -        -           -        _         -           ,      3.61      2.75          6.36
37 Transmission main Sale                  0.16      0.15       0.31       -        -           -       0.16      0.15       0.31      5.88     4.46       10.34     3.17      2.40       5.57      9.37      7.16         16.53
B8 Staff H.ouning                           -          -         -        0.91     0.51        1.42     3.44      1.73       5.17      1.05     0.54        1.59       -         -           -      5.40      2.78          8.18
Sub total bou Regreg                      10.01      9.47      19.48    87.04    75.33       162.37   10I7.88    87.96     195.84    33.09    26.08        59.17     3.17      2.40       5.57   241.19    201.24         442.43
Agadir                          26.46    22.32       48.78    11.92      9.30       21.22     2.94      2.38       5.32      6.44     5.49       11.93       -         -           -     47.76     39.49         87.25
TOTdiL                                    36.47    31.79       68.26    98.96    84.63       183.59   118.82    90.34      201.16    39.53    31.57        71.10     3.17      2.40        5.57   288.95    240.73       -529.68
Prire contingencies                        2.00     1.19        3.19    14.86      9.31      24.17    25.50    16.61        42.11    12.67      8.51      21.18      1.30      0.86       2.16    56.33      36.48         92.81
TOTAL                                     38.47    32.98       71.45   113.82    93.94       207.76   136.32   106.95      243.27    52.20    40.08        92.28     4.47      3.26        7.73   345.28    277.21        622.49
Studios and Techeica1 A.sistance                                          2.25      1.75       4.00      2.24     1.73        3.97     0.46      1.37       1.83                                    4.95       4.85          9.80
Fund for Huons Con-ections                   1.15    1.15         2.30    6.11      6.11      12.22      7.64     7.64       15.28     8.40     8.40       16.80      9.17     9.17       18.34    32.47      32.47        64.94
GRIAND TOTAL.                               39.62   34.13        73.75  122.18   101.80      223.98   146.20   116.32    .262.52    61.06    49.85        118.91    13.64    12.43        26.07   382.70    314.53        697.23  o
Compounded Percentages                      5.5      3.75                15        il                  23        19                    32       27                  41        36



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
1978                             979                           1980                            1981                            1982                           1983
ITEM                       1      2       3       4       1       2      3       4        i      2       3       4        1      2       3      4       _       2       3       4        1      2       3       4
Batk
I AGADIR Phase 1                                             A       RE       N   B   _                                                            lbrsem,  ents
Equ.pment /supply and ,nstall.tion)                   D            T i E  X =    __   
C,v,i Works                                           O) - -L- ,j       E 1  X 
P,peline  sD    ___  T 1E  X                                                         -       _     __
T-1,k Min,                                           D~             T 1E  X
Electr,city Sapply (ONE)
AGADIR Phase 2
Treatment Plant-Equmpment                                                                            D               1TTL  1 
Treatnnent Plant-Civil Vùorks                                                                        D       =            T  I E   X
Trunk Main                                                                                          Il                 T-  E   I
Il BOU REGREG
Booster Pumps                                                 D        T       E   I X
Supply of Equ,pnent
Installation
Civil works                                                  -       *      ...  .JI.    -                
Purrsping Siat.ors..L.                                                                                                    
S.ppin of Equiprnerst Phase 1                                                       .1    ...
Installation
Supply of Eqaipment Phase 2                                                                                  -               E -            =       -               _                                                                            5J
InstallationE                                                                                                                       X
Civil Works
Pressure Main
Suppin of Pipes                                                             D                      E        <             
Laying
Treatmsent Plant                                                                
Trunk Main to CASABLANCA                                                                                                                                        a
Manufacturing of Pipes                                                   C            T       E     X
Laying-                                                                                                              -       -       --                     --
Trunk Main te RABAT                                           D                                                                                     T  E    X 
Trank Main to SALE                                                                                                                                   T      E     x
Staff Hoas,ng                                                                                         T              X-                             -       -  
Studies
House Connections==.
World Bank - 19791
D  =  Design and p,eparat,on of tender documentst nclading Bank reiew           E  =  Bid Evaluation
a  =  Advernising                                                               A  =  Appraisal
I     Bid Opening                                                               Rt =  Preparation of appraisal report
X  =  Award                                                                     N  =Negecietions
P  =  Preselection                                                              B  =Board approval
T     Tender Procedure



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PERT DIAGRAMS
I AGADIR
ConatrCton of Poer- Une -Fosce Accoon I
/9                               2            2                                     2212) F = S
n  (61                                     41                                                            (221~~~~~~~~ 0%f ,,P~.    E<2p,,
010010l 30% et Equiomen,                                In suali 30%of Equiomen,                                                Opraio | iNwProe
/   /    (61 F = 3                 3 j ---~~~~~~~~~~~(11  ---   j 1             
/   /                                  >~~~~~~~\3                                   '        3                                                                                                                                           s 
// SuppIV 20%.f P,   for Well Field  _        Snpplnn  û0Yof Pip.f W0%I Fi .                                                   \\dIn
_/   Phase 1   6go                                      1 _r  ç                                          a l10l15 ne                                                                      2
C ~~~~~~~D                                       9~~~~~~~~6             9           2O  otSEetTm
(  :=; 25 \ Construct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  SLF WelFed Pipes                                                                                i                                             h  
\  <   {61 F = O  \çi                                        9             ~~         ~         ~        ~~~~            ~      ~~~(6J  1$ 2  f2    9-2             1          21 a-(221                        
3 \\ - Lupplv~~S,  V20%.f Pipes                         o      Tunmi 1 upy0o iefrrnmi   
fr   3   or      \               ~~~~~Biddm, P,..ed.,.                        Supply 20°of Pip3sT,.nk.... 11l                   SuPpplv20% TrunkmainPh-s I1l3 _
Anh      61 F rn22 Meh3F 2                                      1          F22 e                               '9 ths/
rLX 72 Cqnstruct 80b Trunkmain Phase 11 > Construct 20%Trunkmain Pha5T,11k../ fP
IlIBOU-REGREG                                                                1723
SLPPIY 30Xof Equipmn                               A30nf Equipmen,                      '-1nWo- nldf N-n wPumP
|         (11 F vS22\   J                                   16}                J111 F                                                                                                                                              f
I  I               C~~~oivi W.,rks P.mp,ng 6ta-lo                                                                        
O                | |   /                           ~~~~~~~~       ~          ~~(9) F = 6  3       5          16                                                                                                             \f
E | / / ~~~~~~~~~~~~S.Pplv IB MVA                                                                       TrnsorerInsal Trnfrao   
Z             //    /                                          ~~~~~~~~~~       ~          ~        ~~(12) F -16  <                            4                    
/ / / ~~~~Suppl 50Xof                    P rsueMai UPV5XPesueMi   
_ >        A         g                                «1 21  = 6                            2>                     g6) F= 1                3mM 2)                                                                                       r
(  ; \ I nstall 60X PrKSUre Main t)o~~~~~2. 
\    \   Performance               4                                         10                         4                                                                     t                                       S      I~~(24 P  1
V \ 1~~~~~~4) F  =2                                                                             6                                                              62 6t2 t 6li1/|f
9o   \   Finalixe Co-financin9        _           ~Bidding Srcdr                   \âp,l, 20%.1 Pipes f.r Trunkmain                 S.upply 80%. PiFes f., Trunkmain                                                
(~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~t5 2{6) F O  ~                2                   (4)                                               LL(201     rukai   
C ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                           ~     ~~~~ Crti  -ahC       ElET  Earliest E-e  Time,3
4 - SI. LET = Ul-ts E-k  Time
\  = _         =         P                             F =  ~~~~~~~~2 FIoat  (in  months)
WorHd Bank - 20226



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Year                                                                           1979           1980            1981           1982           1983            1984           1985
Indicators
1.   STAFFING
Number of Permanent Staff                                                2,587           2,720          2,825           3,145          3,380          3,520           3,690
2.   SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Water Produced  106 m3/year                                                 183            195            213             259            310             336            361
Water Sold, Bulk  106m3/year                                                169            179            196             238            285             309            332
Water Sold, Retail   106m3/year                                              36.9           38.9           43.7            47.3           51.9            59.2           67.9
iWater Produced, Mid-Atlantic Coast                                         114.6          117.4           129.2          159.0           180.7          196.7          207.5
Water Sold, Bulk Mid-Atlantic Coast                                         111.3          120.9          125.4           154.4          175.4           191.0          201.5
Water Produced, Agadir                                                       11.0           12.8            14.8           16.9            18.9           20.5           22.1
Water Sold, Bulk Agadir                                                      10.5           12.2            14.1           16.0            18.0           19.5           21.0
Peak Day Production, Bou Regreg m3/day x'OOO                               287.0           329.0          374.0           422.0          475.0           527.0          586.0
Peak bay Production, Agadir m3/day x'000                                     45.0           53.0            61.0           70.0            78.0           84.0           91.0
Unaccounted-for Water, Mid-Atlantic Coast, Production, 7.                     3              3               3              3               3              3              3
Unaccounted-for Water, Agadir, Production, 7,                                 5              5              5               5              5               5              5
Number of Connections, 103                                                   88.9           96.1          109.3           124.5          144.2           169.2          199.8
3.   FINANCE              1_
Rate of Return, % -
Cash Generation I, %  _/                                                      2.9            4.7             5.7           7.1              7.1           7.1             7.2
Cash Generation II, %   3/                                                     28             8               10           il               39            60             60
Debt Equity Ratio                                                               7             2                3            2                .4            6              6
Debt Service Coverage                                                         22:78         25:75           28:72         29:71            29:71         27:73        25:75
Ave. Rate in DH per m3 sold bulk, Mid-Atlantic Coast                          1.4            1.7              2.0          2.0              2.6           2.6            2.8
Ave. Rate in DM per m3 sold bulk, Agadir                                      0.55          0.65             0.70         0.75             0.80          1.05           1.10
Ave. Rate in DH per m3 sold bulk, Interior Cities                             0.37          0.60             0.70         0.75             0.80          1.06           1.10
Ave. Rate in DH per m3 sold retail                                            0.35          0.42             0.50         0.54             0.58          0.79           0.83
Operating Expenses in DH per m3 sold bulk                                     0.82          0.90             0.96         1.03             1.10          1.18           1.26
Operating Expenses in DH per m3 sold retail                                  0.33           0.36            0.38          0.36            0.41           0.41           0.41
Revenue in DH per unit of Investment _/                                       1.80          1.90             1.96         2.04            2.19           2.37           2.47
0.15          0.12             0.12         0.12             0.15          0.18           0.20
4.   HOUSE CONNECTIONS FINANCED UNDER PROJECT
Casablanca                                                                  800          4,550          6,400           7.950          9,350
Rabat-Sale                                                                  380          1,940          2,770           3,540          3,860
Kenitra                                                                     205          1,130          1,600           1,990          2,300
1/   Income after taxes but before interest divided by average rate base x 100
2/   Net cash generation as % of capital investments in the year.
3/  Net annual average cash generation as % of net fixed assets plus works-in-progress.
Total revenues divided by average net fixed assets plus works-in-progress.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Optimizing the Treatment
Process at the Bou Regreg Treatment Sation
Principal: Office National d'Eau Potable (ONEP)
Introduction
1.        The Office National de l'Eau Potable (ONEP) is responsible for the
water production in Morocco's main urban centers.
2.        In one of ONEP's production centers, the Bou Regreg treatment plant
near Rabat, with a capacity of 4 m3/sec., the quality of the raw water which
is abstracted from a dam has seasonal variations. Activated carbon is being
used in great quantities to produce water of acceptable quality.
Objectives
3.        The purpose of the study is to determine the most efficient manner
to operate the Bou Regreg treatment plant by minimizing the consumption of
chemicals.
Method of Study
4.        It is foreseen to engage the services of an expert in water treat-
ment for one year to assist in the operation of the Bou Regreg treatment plant.
He will also have to provide additional training to local staff.
His duties would include:
(1)  determining the optimum dosing rate of chemicals as a function
of the seasonal fluctuations of the raw water quality, pro-
ducing treated water of acceptable quality;
(2)  analyzing the present treatment process and making suggestions
as to possible improvements;
(3)  training local staff in treatment and laboratory techniques;
(4)  besides the training of the staff charged with the operation
of the treatment plant, the expert may be called upon to
provide training lessons to other staff in ONEP's training
center, located at the site of the treatment plant;



ANNEX 5
- 59 -                        Page 2
(5) preparing a report on his findings regarding the optimum
dosage of chemicals and improvements in the treatment
process, and revising the detailed instructions on the
.?eration of the treatment plant for use by local staff,
where needed.
5.        The expert will be recruited by ONEP.  The duration of the assign-
ment is one year. The expert should start this assignment on January 1, 1980
or before.
Qualifications
6.        The expert must be a water chemist, sanitary engineer or equivalent,
with specialization in the treatment of surface water, and have extensive
experience (at least 10 years) in the exploitation of treatment plants of this
scale. Experience in problems with eutrophication is indispensable.
Additional Information
7.        The Bou Regreg Dam, constructed in 1973-75, has a capacity of 500
million m3, and is fed by two rivers, the Oued Grou and the Oued Bou Regreg.
The raw water is extracted from the reservoir at varying levels, and pumped to
a higher elevation where two treatment plants are situated. The first one,
with a capacity of 1 m3/sec. was constructed in 1969 and is of the "LURGI"
type; the second one, with a capacity of 3 m3/sec., has been in operation
since 1975, and is one of the "DEGREMONT" Pulsater types. The treatment
process involves pre-chlorination, flocculation, sedimentation, rapid sand
filtration and a final disinfection with chlorine.
8.        A fully equipped and staffed laboratory at the treatment plant is
at the disposal of the expert.



- 60 -                        ANNEX 6
KINGDOM-OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Bulk and Retail Water Tariffs
Bulk Water Tariff
DH/m3
Prior October 1977                                            October 1977 and onwards
Agadir        .34                                             Agadir            .37
Casablanca   .45                                              Casablanca        .55
Rabat         .45                                             Rabat             .55
Sale          .45                                             Sale              .55
Kenitra       .45                                             Kenitra           .55
Marrakech    .15                                              Marrakech         .26
El Jadida    .45                                              El Jadida         .55
Safi          .50                                             Safi              .55
Retail Water Tariff
DH/m3
Prior October 1977  ---------        From October 1977 Onwards---------------
Residential and Commercial Uses            Industrial Use
Consumption of    Consumption
lst 30m3/          exceeding 30m3/
quarter            quarter
Agadir                .68              .68                 .83                       .68
Casablanca           .69               .69                1.62                      1.10
Rabat                .60               .60                1.13                       .90
Sale                 .53               .60                1.13                       .90
YXenitra              .50              .50                 .59                       .56
Marrakech             .33              .33                  .70                      .55
El Jadida            .78               .78                1.21                       .88
Safi                 .85               .85                1.09                       .82
Small Centers       .65               .65                 .87                       .80



- 61 -                                 ANNEX 7
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Review of Water Production and
Distribution Costs of the Centers Managed by ONEP
1.        The objective of the proposed study is to identify ways to reduce
operating and maintenance costs of ONEP's operation of its water producing
and distributing systems of the smaller and medium-sized centers. The study
should be executed in four phases:
Phase I
2.        An inventory of each scheme would have to be made by providing
information on:
(i) type of water source; actual and planned capacity; present,
average, and peak production;
(ii) description of the production system, length and diameters
of the transmission and distribution system, efficiency of
the system, number of connections and standpipes;
(iii) direct operating costs per m3 produced and sold by separat-
ing out power consumption, use of chemicals, direct personnel
costs and maintenance costs;
(iv) anticipated growth of production;
(v) valuation of this system.
Phase II
3.        Based on the information collected in Phase I, a comparative in-
depth analysis of the various systems should be made by establishing a scale
of various technical and operational indices. For those cases in which these
indices exceed acceptable levels, a detailed survey would then have to be
made to determine the reason.
Phase III
4.        On the basis of the detailed survey prepared in Phase 2, recommenda-
tions would have to be made proposing certain actions that would have to be
taken to reduce future cost of operation and maintenance. Such actions could
consist of:



- 62 -                                    ANNEX 7
Page 2
(i) reduction of water losses both at the production and distri-
bution side of the system by a leak detection program,
verification of water meters and elimination cf illegal
connections;
(ii) optimization in the use of chemicals;
(iii) reduction of energy consumption through proper maintenance
of pumping systems;
(iv) reassignment of staff;
(v) establishment of a detailed maintenance program.
Phase IV
5.        After review and acceptance cf the above recommendations by ONEP's
senior staff, an implementation schedule will have to be established indicat-
ing responsibility for the implementation and a timetable.



KINGOM OF MDROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ONEP - INCOME STATEMENTS - ACTUAL  1/ (1975-1978) AND PROJECTED (1979-1985)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                                        1975           1976          1977           1978           1979           1980           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985
---------------------------------- -----------------------DH Million-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Revenues
Water Sales Bulk                                                     33.40          45.48         66.13          75.16          80.43         105.19        127.91          166.17         210.64         297.41.        339.23
Water Sales Retail (net)                           ~~~~~          ~~~~7.08  9.65  14.09         17.88         21.85          24.15          29.21          33.86          364            436            54.70
Total Water Sales                                                 40.48           55.13         80.22          93.04         102.28         129.34        157.12         300.0          249.08         341.06         393.93
Other fees/charges                                                    6.11           7.35         11.89           5.24           7.79           9.49          15.72          19.31          26.96          34.84          44.31
Other lncome Net                                                      1.10            .65          3.19           3.04           2.66           2.91           3.43           3.63           4.21           5.04           6.05
Governnent Operating Subsidy                                          5.00           5.00          5.00           5.00           5.00           5.00          5.00             -              -              -              -
Less:  bad Debt Provision                                             2.91           2.90          2.86           2.00           0.81           0.94          1.19            1.29           1.57           1.99           2.47
Total Revenue                                                        49.78           65.23         97.44         104.32         116.92         145.80        180.08          221.68         277.69         37895          441.82
Operatina Expenses
Personnel                                                           23.73           26.65         41.23          43.40          45.60          50.33         54.96           60.70          67.65          76.33          87.31
Energy & Fuel                                                         3.67           5.91         IC.51          14.06          16.60          19.43         22.72           26.75          31.98          37.33          43.55
Che.icals                                                             1.08           2.93          7.39           8.16          11.15           13.25         15.48          13.61          18.31          21.46          24.67
Materials                                                             1.73           3.25          6.93           7.29           9.10           9.35          12.65          14.29          17.61          21.83          26.97
Maintenance                                                            .76           1.04          2.03           3.59           4.76           5.59           7.37           8.08           9.46          10.64          12.06
General & Administrative Expenses                                     2.81           3.99          4.71           5.63           6.45           8.16           9.42          11.16          12.77          14.60          16.50
Water Sales Tax and other Taxes                                       2.52           3.07          3.67           4.63           5.18            5.80          7.45          10.23          12.97          16.42          21.94
LasG:  Capitalized Expenses                                            .90           4.77          6.19           7.40          8.20             9.29         11.23           9.95           7.84           7.14           7.51
Sub total                                                            35.40           42.07         70.28          79.36          90.64          102.62        118.82         134.87         162.91         191.47         225.57
Depreciation                                                         16.15          20.36         30.85          29.44          31.40          35.29         42.09           46.58          66.35          72.23          77.16
Total Operatina Expenses                                              51.55          62.43        101.11         108.80         122.04          137.91        160.91         181.45         229.26         263.70         302.73
Net operating Income (lons)                                          (1.77)          2.80         (3.67)         (4.48)          (5.12)          7.89         19.17          40.23          48.43         115.25         139.09
Interest                                                              6.07          11.21         12.73          13.00          15.91           21.l         .23             3 QL L8 *4. 111              ...24.ifln
Net Income (loss)                                                    (7.84)        ( 8.41)       (16.40)         (17.481       (21.03)         (13.94)       (10.76)          1.25           4.30          70.38          9i-99
Adjustments relating to earlier fiscal years                         5.65             -            6.24                           -               -             -              -
Reallocation of water sales tax to offset losses of rural
centers includinR recuDeration of taxes                              3.18           7.07          15.97          21.09         24.14           26.45    2     133&-0                       53.21           18.48           2.26
Ne  noe(loso) after above adjustments                           .                             8..1                        3.11125207
Net Tncome (bs   ie   by   dutst                                       99          (1.34)         5.136                          .11.12.237.20                                             59.13          87.11          94.91
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets  *                                 +              2.3          2.3             2.7            2.9            4.7           5.7            7.1            7.1             7.1            7.2
1/   1978 Results Preliminary
*Includes until 1983 reallocated voted Governuent contributions. collected throueh water sales tax for coverina operatinR losses of the rural centers.



KINGDOM OF MDROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ON8P - CASH FLOU - ACTUAL 11/ (1975-1978 *nd PROJECTRD 1979-19B5)
Fi-al Year Ending Dec.nber 31                                1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980        1981        1982       1983        1984       1985
---------------------------------------------- E MILLLON-  ------------------------------------------------------
Interna 0Sources of Funds
Operat1vo Secote befo.e Depreciation (1)                   14.38      23.16       33.40       24.96      26.28       43.18       61.26      86.81      114.78      187.48     216.25
Rec-peration of Ta.es paid by ONEP                           -          -          -           1.59       3.86        4.87       11.73       4.S8      21l77       18.48        2.26
.Sob_T0±al                      ..... 14.38                          23.16       33.40      26.55       30.14       48.05      72.99       91.69      136.55     205.96      218.51
operation.l Renuire ents
I.crease (Decrease) fn worki.g Capital                      4.22      15.03       47.22      59.18      (51.07)      (3.09)      (8.15)     11.14        8,22      10.96       13.87
other thsn Cash
Le tere s t
IBRD                                                     6.07      11.21       12.73      13.00       14.36       13_97       13.54      13.08       12.59      12.06       11.49
Propossd IBRD L.n                                         -          -           -           -          .59        3.82        7.06      10.21.      11.75       11.18      10.43
Other Projeot Lann. Propooed                              _          _           -           -          .28        2.54        6.04       9.07       10.06       9.45        8.85
ADB Lonn                                                  -                      -           -          .68        1.50        1.95       2.00        1.96        1.82       1.68
Other loans, Envisaged                                                    _                                                    1.34       4.62        7.77       10.36      11.65
Total Interest                                           6.07       11.21      12.73       13.00      15.91       21.83       29.93       38.98      44.13      44.87       44.10
A-ortieatio., of Lons2
IBRD                                                                            2.50        5.00       5,39        5.78        6.21       6.67        7.16.       7.69       8.26
Propo.ed IBRD Loan                                        -          - L                                -           -                      -           -          9.43       9.'43
Other Projeot Losn, Propossd                              -          -           -           -          -           -           _                      _          7.96       7.96
ADB Lonn                                                  -           -          -           -           -          -           _           _         1.79        1.79       1.79
Other Lonns, Envisag.d                                    _          _           -   -       _           _          _           _           _          -          7.75       7.75
Tntal Arortintim-                                                    -          2,50       5.00        5.39        6.78        6.21       6.67        8.95      34.62       35.19
Total Debt Srrviced                                      6.07      11.21       15.23       18.00      21.30       27.61       36.14      45.65       53.08       79.49      79.29
Total Onerational Re.oir,esnt. (2)                          10.39       26.24      62.45       77.18      (29.77)     24.52       27.99       56.79      61.03       90.45       93.16
Balance of Ioternal Fonds Avilabl.e
for 1yvestotent (3)                                         3.99     ( 3.08)    (29.05)    (50.63)       59.91       23.53       45.00       34.90      75.25      115.51     123.35
Capital ITesteusnts:
lst Projtot                                              78.76      46.69       17.37       24.60      43.21         -           -           -           -          -           -
Pr...pos.d Projet                                         -            -         -            -         71.45     207.76      243.87       92.90         7.73       -           -
Rerls and Othsr Projset                                  14.08       58.65      82.41       44.27     100.26       84.52      201.89      239.55      185.16    194.44       207.47
Total Capital invesSsents (4)                              92.84      105.34      99.78       68.87      214.92     292.28      445.76      332.45     192.89      194.44      207.47
alan.ce to be Fisancsd                                       88.85      108.24     128.83      119.50     155.01      268.75      400.76      297.55      117.64      78.93       82.12
Fitnaed by Borrosng
Prior 18RD                                                   48.81       26.04        6.50      13.72       25.10               -          -           -           -                -
Propossd Bank Loan                                             -           -           -          -         17.07       41.02      49.78        38.26       4.76
Othar Loanu for Project                                        -           -           -          -          1.80       40.74      57.04        27.79        -
ADB Lonn                                                       -                                            12.25       11.15        1.60        -
Other Loans, Envisagd                                                        _ _                                                   48.00        45.00      45.00      26.00       32.00
Total Lending                                                48.81       26.04        6.50      13.72       56.22       92.91     156.42       111105      49.76      26.00       32.00
Long Ter. Payables                                            -           -           -          -           -         10.00      12.00        15.00      6.50
Gover=oent Contributions offs.ttiog lose.. of rural             -         7.07       15.97      18.50        8.50       21.58       19.75       28.92      31.35         -         -
canters through reallocation  of vater sales t5x
Othsr Goversoeot contrib.tions                               15.74       66.51      152.49      11.50       53.07      140.42     206.15       132.38      19.15       30.00      20.00
Contouer eontributions                                        1.50        1.50        4.10       5.39        3.89        5.02        9.98       12.44      17.41       23.74      31.46
TOTAL FUNDlNG                                                 66.05     101.12      179.06      48.11      141.96      269.93      404.30      299.79    124.17        79.74      83.46
Cash Increase (Decrease) for Year                            (22.80)     (7.30)      50.23      70.39      (13.05)       1.18        3.54        2.24       6.53        0.81       1.34
Cash et Beginning of Year                                    64.42       41.62       34.32      84.55       14.16        1.11        2.42       5.96        8.07       14.60       15.41
Cash et Rd of YTar                                           41.62       34.32       84.55      14.16        1.11        2.29        2.29       5.83       14.60       15.4l      16.75
Debt Servies Coverage (Tins.)                                 2.4        2.07        2.2        1.5          1.4        2.42        5.83        8.07       2.6         2.6        2.8
Intsrnal Financing of Capital Invest.est 2/                  4.0           -           -           -          28          8           10          il         39          60          60
---do--- as . of Net Fifed As.ets Psl..
Work tn Progrsse an (nnrsl vrag.)                           I            _           _           -          7           2            3           2          4          6            6
_/  1978 results pr.linlaory
2/ Line 3 as per.estags of Lin. 4



KINGDOM OP MOROCCO
ISECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ONEP - BALANCE SHEETS ACTUAL 1/ 1975-1978 and PROJECTED 1979-1985
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                       1975          1976         1977          1978         1979          1980         1981         1982          1983         1984          1985
-----------------------------------------------------------DH Million------------------------------------------------------------------
Fixed Assets                                         763.14        767.80       990.95      1,019.17      1,087.73      1,221.10     1,449.58     1,599.06      2,299.64     2,496.12      2,660.85
Less Depreciation                                    329.06       345.21        365.57         395.01       412.14       432.21        458.43       486.17        533.33       582.66        632.37
Net Fixed Assets                                    434.08       422.59        625.38         624.16       675.59        788.89       991.15     1,112.89      1.766.31     1,913.46      2.028.48
Work in Progress                                     136.65        233.12        99.28         138.34       266.57       405.39        595.07       758.37        237.86        194.44       207.47
Total Fixed Assets                                  570.73       655.71        724.66        762.50        942.16     1.194.28      1.586.22     1.871.26      2.004.17     2.107.90      2,235.95
Stocks                                                 3.90         6.99          9.73         10.56         11.80        13.57         16.12        17.15         20.90        24.13         27.81
Accounts Receivable                                   51.42         71.10       120.56         137.52        88.76         91.35        99.12        105.28       113.19        124.51       136.84
Cash & Equivalent                                     41.62         34.32        84.55          14.16         1.11          2.29         5.83          8.07        14.60        15.41         16.75
Total Current Assets                                  96.94       112.41        214.84         162.24       101.76       107.21        121.07       130.50       148.69        164.05        181.40
Total Assets                                         667.67        768.12       939.50         924.74     1,043.83      1.301.49     1.707.29      2,001.76    2,152.86      2,271.95      2.417.35
Equity & Liability
Governaent Contributions                             296.94       370.52        538.98        568.98        642.33         804.33    1,030.23     1,191.53      1,242.03      1.272.03     1.292.03
Custorers Contributions                                8.59        10.09         14.19          19.58        23.47          28.49       38.47        50.91         68.32        92.06        123.52
Revaluation Surplus                                  154.44        154.44       154.44         154.44       154.44         154.44      154.44       154.44        154.44        154.44       154.44
Earned Surplus (loss)                                  5.24        ( 3.17)      (13.33)        (30.81)      (51.84)        (65.78)    '(76.57)       (70.84)      (38.80)       31.58        126.57
Total Equity                                         465.21       53L88         694.28         712.19       768.40         921.48    1.146.60      1,325.64     1.425.99     1.550.11     1.696.56
Long-Term Debt:
Previous IBRD Lending                               135.52       159.06        160.56         168.89       188.21         182.00      175.33        168.17       160.48        152.22       143.35
Proposed IBRD Loan                                    -             -            -             -            17.07          58.09      107.87        146.13       141.46        132.03       122.60
Other Project Loan, Proposed                          -             -            -             -             1.80          42.54       99.58        127.37       119.41        111.45       103.49
ADB Loan                                              -             -            -             -            12.25          23.40       25.00         23.21        21.42         19.63        17.84
Other loans, Envisaged                                -             -            -             -             -               -         48.00        93.00        130.25        148.50       169.42
Total Long-Term Debt                                 135.52        159.06       160.56         168.89       219.33        306.03       455.78       557.88        573.02        563.83       556.70
Accounts Payable                                      66.94         74.68        79.66          38.27        41.82        49.27         67.74         63.79        67.23         70.82        72.96
Long term accounts payable                               -            -            -                          8.50         18.50        30.50         45.50        52.00         52.00        52.00
Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt                    -            2.50         5.00           5.39         5.78          6.21         6.67         8.95         34.62         35.19        39.13
Total Current Liability                               66.94         77.18        84.66          43.66        56.10         73.98       104.41       118.24        153.85       158.01        164.09       w
Total Equity And Liability                           667.67       768.12        939.50        924.74      1,043.83     1,301.49      1 _707.29    2,001.76      2.152.86     2,271.95      2 _417.35
Debt Equity Ratio                                    23:77        23:77         19:81         19:81         22:78       25:75         28:72         29:71         29:71       27:73         25:75
1/   1978 results preliminary



ANNEX 8
Page 4
- 66 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts of ONEP
GENERAL
1.        ONEP's operations can be subdivided into four distinct operations, out
of which the following two are related to the project: (i) water production along
the Mid-Atlantic Coast from Casablanca to Kenitra; and (ii) water production for
the Greater Agadir area. The remaining activities concern: (i) other bulk water
production for sale to distributing régies; and (ii) production and distribution
of water in about 80 rural centers. In preparing ONEP's overall income statements,
and forecasting gross and net fixed assets, income statements of these separate
activities were consolidated as were the investments related to each of these
activities.
Revenues
2.        Under the proposed rate of return covenant, ONEP's revenues should be
sufficient to enable it to generate by 1979 a 2% rate of return on its net fixed
assets in operation, increasing to 7% from 1982 onwards. ONEP is operating water
supply systems in about 80 rural centers, through which it incurs losses. The
Government is presently providing a special contribution out of its annual budget
of DH 5.0 million to cover part of the costs of these operations. This special
contribution is to cease at the end of 1981. Operation of these centers does not
benefit from the economies of scale found in operating the water production and
distribution system along the Mid-Atlantic Coast.
3.        In some of these centers, production costs are up to eight times higher
than along the Mid-Atlantic Coast. Increases in the operating efficiencies of
these centers, which would result in a reduction of operating costs, can be achieved
however, only over a longer period. Operating costs of these rural centers have
reached, and will continue to be at such levels that they cannot be absorbed by
ONEP's other water activities. Instead of making direct payments to ONEP to cover
the losses in operating these rural centers, the Government has so far contributed
heavily towards ONEP's investment programs, and will do so in the future. Part
of the funds provided by the Government to ONEP's investment programs, originate
in the water supply sector through a variety of taxes, such as taxes on water
sales (6.38%), services rendered (7.5%), and good procured (11.25%). Levying of
taxes on water sales is uncommon in the sector, particularly at these high levels.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
- 67 -
Based on a conservative estimate, about DH 16.0 million was collected by the
Government from water sales taxes in 1977, and DH 20.0 million in 1978. On
the other hand, DH 15.9 million would have been required by ONEP in 1977, and
DH 19.5 million in 1978, to offset the operating losses of the rural centers.
To the extent that the amounts collected through the water sales tax are brought
back to ONEP through the Government contributions for its development program,
it is reasonable to admit them as revenues for calculating ONEP's rate of
return. Following this reasoning, ONEP achieved a rate of return of 2.3% in
1977, and 4.0% in 1978 on its next fixed assets in operation, in compliance
with the covenanted rate of return of the first water supply project (Loan 850-MOR).
4.        A tariff adjustment for inflationary increases was foreseen for 1979.
Such an adjustment would have allowed ONEP to meet without difficulties a 2%
rate of rtturn on its net fixed assets used for the production of water for bulk
sales for 1979. ONEP has, however, in compliance with the Government's austerity
program, managed to reduce its operating costs accordingly, and will be able to
meet for 1979 a 2% rate of return on its net fixed assets used for the production
of water for bulk sales. This together with that part of the committed Government
contributions towards ONEP's investment program that would offset the operating
losses of the rural centers, would enable ONEP to achieve the covenanted rate of
return on its overall net fixed assets by end 1979.
5.        Future tariff increases, primarily for adjustments of price increases
of operating costs, will become necessary. The magnitude of these increases will,
to a considerable extent, depend on ONEP's achievement in controlling operating
expenses, in particular of the rural centers, and in providing water of acceptable
quality at reasonable costs along the Mid-Atlantic Coast. Improvement in the
treatment process at the Bou Regreg treatment plant would be accomplished through
the proposed technical assistance and training program. A study however, must be
undertaken to identify ways to reduce the operating costs of the rural centers.
It is expected that implementation of the recommendations of this study be
initiated by January 1, 1981.
6.        Based on these assumptions, the following tariff structure would generate
the revenues néeded by ONEP to meet its rate of return covenant.
------------- Water Tariff (DH/m3) -------------
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985
Mid-Atlantic Coast : Bulk        0.65     0.70      0.75      0.80      1.04     1.10
Agadir : Bulk                    0.60      0.70     0.75      0.80      1.06     1.10
Other Bulk Sales                 0.42     0.50      0.54      0.58     0.79      0.83
Rural Centers                    0.90      0.96     1.03      1.10      1.18     1.26



ANNEX 8
Page 6
- 68 -
7.        Retail water tariffs have been assumed to be adjusted from 1980 until
1985 for inflationary increases only. Bulk water tariffs are assumed to be
adjusted until 1983 for inflationary increases only, as until that time, committed
Government contributions would cover the operating losses of the rural centers.
From 1984 onwards, bulk water tariffs are assumed to increase to levels that
would permit ONEP to meet its rate of return covenant.
8.        In forecasting ONEP's revenues for calculating the rate of return, those
parts of the committed Government contributions towards ONEP's investment program
have been included until 1983 that would offset the operating losses of the
rural centers. In addition, those taxes were included as revenues that are paid
to the Government when procuring goods for the production of water, and that are
recuperated through a tax credit at the time of commissioning.
INCOME STATEMENT
9.        All items appearing in the Income Statement projections are assumed to
be subject to an 11% inflationary increase in 1979, and 7% thereafter.
Other Fees and Charges
10.       Included hereunder are the charges for new connections.  New connections
are installed by ONEP and the cost is billed to the customer. The charges for
installing the house connections were projected according to the foreseen numbers
of house connections to be installed by ONEP each year, and have been adjusted for
inflationary increases.
Other Income Net
11.       This item includes the quarterly payments for house connections, which
covers the cost of their maintenance and meter rental. This charge, which amounted
in 1978 to DH 30 for a water meter of 15 mm, was projected by the number of
connections installed at mid-year, and adjusted for inflationary increases. Further-
more, miscellaneous income such as late charges, are included under this posting.
Bad Debt Provision
12.       The bad debt provision applies only to the retail water sales in the
rural centers for which 2% was assumed.
Operating Expenses : Personnel
13.       Personnel expenses are projected to increase annually by about 11%, out
of which 8% is assumed for salary and benefit adjustments (including cost of
living), and 3% for hiring of additional staff.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
- 69 -
Operating Expenses : Energy and Fuel
14.       Vehicle fuel is projected to increase in quantity by 3% per year.  The
forecast power consumption is projected on the basis of increases in pumping
costs due to water production increases.
Operating Expenses : Chemicals
15.       The quantity of chemicals is projected in line with the increases in
the water production, taking however into account, an improvement in the utilization
of chemicals for water production along the Mid-Atlantic Coast from 1982 onwards,
which would result in a reduction of the total amount of chemicals used.
Operating Expenses    Materials
16.       Quantities are based on the estimated number of new connections and
length of main extensions. The average cost of materials for a house connection
is calculated to be DH 380 and that for the extension to be DH 700.
Operating Expenses : Maintenance
17.       Provisions for routine maintenance, excluding major replacement, are
estimated to average about 0.5% of fixed asset values.
Operating Expenses : Taxes
18.       Taxes are calculated in detail according to their nature, i.e., 6.38%
on water sales, 7.5% on maintenance charges, and 11.25% on services rendered. The
amount of taxes shown are net, i.e., the taxes that are included in the purchase
of chemicals and energy, are according to existing legislation, deducted from
taxes levied by ONEP.
Operating Expenses : General and Administrative
19.       General and administrative expenses are assumed to increase initially
by 15%, going down to 7%.
Capitalized Expenses
20.       This represents the cost of preparation and supervision of implementation
of projects by ONEP's staff, as well as the cost of extensions constructed by ONEP
for materials, labor, overhead and taxes.
Depreciation
21.       Depreciation is calculated at straight line rates, based on estimated
service lives of major asset components, which averages at 2.9% per year.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
- 70 -
CASH FLOW STATEMENT AND BALANCE SHEET
Government Contributions
22.       The Government contributions include three components:
(a)   the contribution towards financing the project, included
in the three year plan (1978-1980), and the commitment
for the next planning period;
(b)   the contribution for financing other investments inclu-
ded in the three year plan; and
(c)   the contribution for other investments after 1980.
Customer Contributions
23.       ONEP's retail customers in the rural centers contribute to ONEP's
investment program in two ways:
(a)   a fixed fee which is assessed on the square root of
the plot; and
(b)   the payment of actual cost of all extensions required
beyond the first 60 meters.
Recuperation of Sales Taxes paid by ONEP
24.       Existing tax legislation allows for the recuperation of taxes included
in capital goods procured for the production, however not for the distribution,
of water. This tax credit is limited by the amount of taxes paid by ONEP to the
Government, which includes taxes on water sales and related services, as well as
goods procured. As the question of the possibility of carrying this tax credit
forward to another year is not fully resolved, only 50% of the taxes allowable
for recuperation were projected to be retained by ONEP.
Accounts Payable
25.       Accounts payable have been assumed at two months variable operating
costs, and provisions for retention money. The long term accounts payable repre-
sent past water bills from various Government agencies which were settled by the
Government and for which ONEP was entrusted by the Government as the collecting
agency.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
- 71 -
Stocks
26.       Stocks are assumed to be at four months value of supplies of materials,
chemicals and fuels.
Accounts Receivable
27.       Private customers' arrears are assumed to be at 1-1/2 months of sales.
Arrears from public authorities are assumed to decline within the next three years
to 3-1/2 months of sales.
Other Loan for Project
28.       This loan is assumed to be repaid over 20 years after a four year grace
period, and to carry an interest rate of 7.9% per annum.
Other Loans Envisaged
29.       These loans are from presently unidentified sources, and are assumed to
be made available to ONEP on similar terms, i.e., repayment over 20 years after
a four year grace period, and an interest rate of 7% per annum.
Interest during Construction
30.       Interest during construction was capitalised and transferred to fixed
assets at time of commissioning. However, payments of the interest charges were
assumed to be made when due.
Rate of Return
31.       The financial statements show that ONEP will achieve, from 1982 onwards,
a rate of return of 7% on its net fixed assets based on the tariff adjustments as
shown in paragraph 6.  ONEP revalues its assets from time to time and the present
valuation of existing assets is realistic in view of their nature.



ANNEX 9
-72 -                                Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
List of Contracts
Number                  Description
Bou Regreg:
1      Booster stations:  supply and install equipment
2      Booster stations:  civil works
3      Pumping station:  supply and install equipment
4      Pumping station:  supply and install transformer
5      Pumping station:  civil works
6      Supply and install pressure main
7      Treatment station - Bou Regreg:  (a) equipment; (b) civil works
8      Transmission main to Casablanca:  (parallel co-financing by Germany)
9      Transmission main to Rabat:  (supply and install)
10      Transmission main to Sale:  (supply and install)
il      Staff housing (20Sr + 15Jr)
12      Consulting services - Bou Regreg
Agadir:
13      Electrical equipment (medium tension) for Ahmar Boudhar well field
14      Hydraulic; mechanical; and electrical equipment for Ahmar Boudhar
well field, control station and 2 chlorination stations
15      Civil works in well field and at Sidi BouShab (1,500 m3 reservoir,
6 houses (lSr + 5Jr), control station and 2 chlorination stations)
16      Pipelines in well field
17      Transmission main from Sidi BouShab to Agadir
18      Power transmission lines to Sid BouShab and to Ahmar Boudhar
19      Transmission main from Oued Issen to Sidi BouShab and inlet works
20      Treatment plan at Sidi BouShab (300 l/s):  (a) equipment; (b) civil
works
21      Consulting services
Studies:
22      Drilling test holes
23      Simulation of Phreatic Level Movement
24      Flow measurement stations
25      Geophysical prospection
26      Soil investigations
27      Water resources study
28      Technical assistance
29      Study of Water Supply Sector
Force account:  House connections (Regies)



- 73 -                                          ANNEX 10
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER PRODUCTION AND DEMAND FORECAST
MIDATLANTIC COAST
CASABLANCA -KENITRA
l        ~~~~l                           I              I   I      
Oum ErR'bia I I -
13000 I/s                                             _
Bou-Regreg Il 0
5000 I/s 
iOooo01/s                                         _ «4X
8000 1/s                                                                 0-
_:   \        Temporary Overloading of
Bou Regreg I
Bou-Regreg j (Existant)=-v -          \
4000 1/s     ~     
-  Schematic Indication of
----                                             Seasonal Peaks
4000 1/s
Other Resources
Fourarat 950   I/s Kenitra 280 I/s Rabat 300 I/s
Casablanca 260 I/s        Oued Mellah 200 I/s
QUI  ER. R'BIA  2000 I/s
1976   1977   1978  1979  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985  1986   1987   1988  1989   1990
WorId Bank - 19913



-74 -                                      ANMEX 11
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER PRODUCTION AND DEMAND FORECAST
GREATER AGADIR
1500 I/s
Peak Demand.
iS5A  (3 DaYs)
Water Production and Demand Forecast
UNDER STUDY-*--            / 
Maximum Demand
PRODUCTION                        _                                       1.37A  (2 Months)
CAPACITY
1000 I/s                                                                 o          
Oued Issen (300 L/S)
2nd Phasem   n        of e       Fua
1IY st/ Phas
Existi ng     |      /       t <          /
500 1/s g1
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Demand Curves
~~~~~~~~Schematic Ind ication of Seasona luttin
I      I             I       I      {      I      I              I      I              I       I
1976   1977   1978  1979   1980   1981   1982  1983  1984   1985   1986   1987  1988  1989   1990
World Bank - 19782



Annex 12
- 75 -                       Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Statement of Expenditures
1.01      The Kingdom of Morocco would on-lend proceeds of the Bank loan
totalling US$8.5 million, i.e. US$4.25 million to the regie of the Casablanca
(RAD), US$2.85 million to the regie of Rabat-Sale (RAD) and US$1.4 million to
the regie of Kenitra (RAK). These proceeds would be exclusively disbursed
against statement of expenditures certifying the amount of credit accorded
to new low income customers of each regie for payment of the house connections
and the related charges. The statement of expenditures, an outline of which
is attached, would show the total amount of credit provided to the customer
by the regie broken down on the one side in the cost of house connections and
related charges for the extension of the distribution system, and on the other
side according to expenditures for materials, payroll, general and overhead
taxes.
1.02      The accounting and administrative procedures of the three regies are
well established and satisfactory. Accounts have been computerized and are
processed in a centralized, computing department within the regie of Casablanca
(RAD). Identification of individual works, use of materials and equipment as
well as personnel costs pose no problem. The activities of the regies are sub-
ject to control at several levels. Like all other enterprises in Morocco, the
regies are subject to the controls exercised by the financial controller and
the accounting agent. These are "a priori" controls which insure that adequate
funds are available when entering into commitments and when making payments.
Although these controls could be thought of as restricting excessively the
financial autonomy of the regies, in practice, this has not been the case and
has not caused undue delays in the regies' transactions. Whereas the financial
controller is responsible for a number of regies, the accounting agent is
assigned to each enterprise. The financial controller is appointed by the
Minister of Finance, is independent of the regies and acts as the "commissaire
aux comptes". He attends all board meetings and those of the technical committee
in an advisory capacity. All purchases exceeding DH50,000 as well as all real
estate transactions and awards of contract are subject to his approval. The
accounting agent who is appointed by the Ministry of Finance but reports to the
general manager of each regie is responsible for all payments and has to insure
that payments are made only within approved budgets and available funds.
1.03      A board of twelve members supervise the activity of each regie.  Eight
members are elected among the members of the Municipal Assembly, The other four
members represent the Ministries such as Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Equip-
ment, Ministry of Finance and the Local Government. A technical committee



Annex 12
- 76 -                         Page 2
composed of three board members and assisted by the municipal engineer, the
financial controller of the regie, and the director of the regie and any other
person whose presence is useful in view of the point of discussion follows up
on the board's decision and supervises the management of the regie.
1.04      Installation of the house connections to low income customers and
the related extensions to the distribution system would be executed by the
regies on force account basis. The regies have the necessary equipment and
trained workers available. Should the need arise to recruit additional wor-
kers, no difficulty is expected in tràining them. As in the past, all house
connections were installed by the regies which also carried out the extensions
to the distribution system. The related materials amounting to US$11.2 million
would be procured by the regies following international notification and under
local competitive bidding procedures of the reiges,which are acceptable to the
Bank. The contract would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
1.05      Detailed documentation to support statement of expenditures would not
be submitted to the Bank for review but would be retained by each of the regies
for inspection by Bank representatives. Supervision missions would make spot-
checks to satisfy themselves that the materials in question were procured and
that the loan for which reimbursement is claimed were granted to low income cus-
tomers in compliance with the eligibility criteria and were used for the instal-
lation of house connections and related extension to the distribution system.
The intervention of the accounting agent and in particular the financial control-
ler in certifying the statement of expenditures would provide adequate safeguards
that the statement of expenditures are properly prepared and in accordance with
the legal requirements of the project, (i.e. that the monies have actually been
spent and used for the purpose of the project). The financial controller in his
capacity, as the independent "commissaire aux comptes" would at the end of each
calendar year certify that the regies' accounting procedures and internal cont-
rols relating to the statement of expenditures are adequate and that the certifi-
cates are properly prepared and in accordance with the legal requirements of the
project.



STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES                                   PROCEDURE I
Form 1C
LOAN               MOR                                                                                           Date__
PERIOD FROM          TO                     Work executed on Force Account - Category 4                          Request No
SUB LOAN AGREEMENT RAD, RAK, RED (Mark which Regie)
No. of    Location    Credit Allocated  Out of which for  Out of which for   Materials  Payroll  Overhead  Taxes
Contract  (District)  (Amount in DU)    Connection (DH)   Contribution to            (DH)       (DH)       (DH)    (DH)*      REMARKS
Extension of Dis-
tribution System
______                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(DH)_                        _  _
Total: DH
50% Eligible
We hereby certify that the above mentioned loans have been accorded for the proper execution of the Project activities with the
terms and conditions contained in Loan Agreement            MOR.  All, the relative authenticating detail, the expenditures
incurred together with supporting documentation are available for review at
(name of accounting or other department where the
supporting documentation is filled)
* No reimbursement of taxes under Bank loan.                                                                                                     >
Representative of ...........                                                                          Authorized Representative ...



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ONEP - Organizational Structure
Board of Dinectors
General Manager
Pce nt       eeW                                                      General              MensleSicianagemen  Co
Depuey Manager Su
(General eecretaey)
Re-io| Serganiic
Bulk SpyLarge Works                                                                               Water SuPPIV       |            diitain            1    rFnance, Accounting,|
a    d Med     3/                                                       and                     &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wol Bnk-203
Provnci............      .        ....           Small andSMerium W o rks  IExceed i ng 2   m3/S c) Operations  Oeain|                                           Data Processing
- |   eGona    Srvies ,  .  _       ro ure  en              _        ro ure  en       _Water  Quality                        _     Lea Se    ics                                                 C  h/  nk
*                                                              |   Support Services  |      -|   Cost Accounting  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acounin
- eional" Serie [, 
<   Fez   |   .                                                                                                                                      |    Budgeting and   |                                      1O~~~~~~udle
PRegional Service                      Execontro
PRovioncal Service  Lic
_]Regional Service i
ReAgioaldeice   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                O§Tcnca  evc
Agdi          .                     atehnical Srit ce
Provincial Service 11              Operatonsro                                                                                                           Wol  ak     03
Prvicil eric   l            Wae   ult
|Provincial Service li1 l
iE



ANNEX 14
Page 1
- 79 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ai.           Renseignements épidémiologiques
Ministry of iealth, Morocco
1977
Bl.           Feasibility study for the second phase of the Bou Regreg
water supply system-
SAFEGE
September 1978
(Adduction du Bou Regreg, Etude de l'avant projet sommaire,
2ème tranche, SAFEGE - Septembre 1978)
B2.           Feasibility study of the booster pumps in the Bou Regreg
water supply system
SAFEGE
July 1978
(Adduction du Bou Regreg - SAFEGE - Etude de Surpression)
B3.           Feasibility study of the water production facilities for Greater
Agadir
SAFEGE
September 1977
(Alimentation en Eau Potable de la ville d'Agadir et de sa
Banlieu - SAFEGE - Septembre 1977)
B4.           Feasibility study of the Tamzaourt dam in the Oued Issen
Electrowatt
July 1975
(Barrage de Tamzaourt sur l'Oued Issen, Avant projet sommaire,
Electrowatt - Juillet 1975)
B5.           Water Quality Analysis
Ci.           Engineering Working Papers, including detailed cost estimates, and
quantities to be delivered through booster pumps.
C2.           Population forecast and demand projections for Greater Agadir.



- 80 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
C3.           Working Papers relating to urban poverty component
C4.           Financial Working Papers including assumptions for projections,
financing of house connections and economic analysis.



\   4                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 3720R .
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                                                                                                         o
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                                 rÀC                                                      O a
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS                                                                                                        T
'Economrc reg on  boundories LcbKrEsel  ô  t  
V                                                                                                                                                                                 L Number of oconomc regonR
=   .   -    nrornot onol boondonienPROJECI AREA                                                                                                      O.S ° El e,b.
- Rînfi ovor 400n por yoor                                                                                                                                  oco~                                                        JD                    ALGERIAo
WATER D STRIBUTION  AND PRODUCTION                                                                                                                            ' lçO   SoIr 
zocoI D,strblori OCEPf.fnoE=ernsnf OlîTfP()o,î=dooStâe\lt~8  Lj;  r9^S(///z- v-
Fîlc,1, L-i   NEP ,oî,i         bîo& p.d_.c(,   trio Ooo,ls
e                                            e~~~- 
o                   c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
IOos  ,dioni n                                    *5                                   B      'v, L   EA   -   \.                BN                                                    LE                          F I G U I G
WOdB                                                                                      D ,(f'    AGA     
(fi~~t rOof = tIO 'I_  t *ftç A 4u. 2tc l
'O~~~ Ù
Sfio ooaoor,oncootofionos A  r /
Ihis mp hasbwn prpitd v thoPROJE:T                                                   _
doon rcipp,nhJr O (iezs p nt 0(0                 ,  J/   OTî n.   +(4i                t                 _? fi
,o            ,,n Tfie     I ZtOnus i!  T    U                                                                                                                                  3
anyfofu(t                                   bou fond,soini,,r  4 
------OO                                                                                    290
CTOTrff=O                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                           MAY 1979






8°00'                                                                roa/0
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
$r (RK) KENITRA CASABLANCA COASTAL ZONE
1972 RANK    PROPOSED                                                              M.ihdts0             R
EXISTING IN 1972           PROJECT     PROJECT
GENERAL     ONEP                    ONEP       ONEP
Rivers and streams                               sBonkttadt          n
. . . . . . . . .                                           Limif of Grou and Bou Regreg River Basin
Dams
-------- _Tunnels                                              RABAT
3--'        Pipelmnes                                                    ,            .34-00
---- -  _----t                               Pumping stations                       Te..rrg ,z;o-.
*           *           *           *      Treatment plants
O           O                      O       Storage tanks
*          *                               Welifield              Rnu*                                                                         , ke
RABAT               Served by pratecX
/: L z emoUr   {~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Moonemj
C,"SL./ANCA           ',
33'00'                                                                                                               w  ."                                   <r                  ,                           3-0
0Tedder~~~~~~~~~~~~hn,,
,                                                                                                                        090ntt5  0  5  1  1-  20   25   tJ
"00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0
L3~00'                             8-00'                      ~                                           7-00'                                                                  6        






IBRD  14089
9'30'                                                               9-20'                                                   \             9-10
TAMZA OURT DAM
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AGADIR
PROPOSED
EXISTING           PROJECT
P ipelines
Pumplng Stat,ons          - --
Stor-ge Tar,ks               Q                   0 
Treitment Plant 
InDake                                                                                                                                                    DJKILA INTAKE
Intake                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300 A
Welfields                     *
Rivers                                                                                                                                                     \
MTor Ros ds                                                                                                                                2,d Phose 
To-os
30030                                                                                                                       SO A003
Y.~~~~~~, 
>0';  Kilorelers                             n)i                                      TAN'
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ To ToJ 7n
/AHMAR ',LD-R WLL C tLD
lst Phase                                                                               3<50~
\ AtqZA  lORAGE TANK
Ane re ô            TABORDJT
.o:&ad,r   INDUSTRIAL QUARTER
t/_ n f;c             WE.                       STORAGE TANK                                                                                                                                                  J0 /  rooded
300                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30(50m  nd020srcto)/     
,-1  /  n ,c      /F EL     \                               ç0RAETN/
0                                                          /ASTERN W\LL LD     A        FRE   WEL
d:?  c e  a n / Ben SerûaoeX /t \ Js (\ Ou;ad Teira~~~~~~~~~~~~~at. .... f b.ohn  ttn t,ot,OM  htdoo,,.Woo...oM
|1~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V/.. 40r I/so.o / < ~ r o                                         M.\.Oa to  oana~  0001
225 I/s   >-30   \                         9-20'                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARS  0970 



