CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1724 MOR
Project Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'EAU POTABLE
Dated July 2, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1724 MOR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'EAU POTABLE (hereinafter called ONEP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Kingdom of Morocco (hereinafter called the Borrower or
Morocco) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-
nine million dollars ($49,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that ONEP
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein-
after set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ONEP, a portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to ONEP on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ONEP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the ONEP-Project
Section 2.01. ONEP shall carry out the ONEP-Project with
due diligence and efficiency, according to a timeable for the
execution of the several Parts and sub-Parts of the Project
mutually agreed between ONEP and the Bank, and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices and, as appropriate, with the assistance of the
Borrower, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist ONEP in the supervision
of the construction of the Bank-ONEP-Project, ONEP shall, as and
when required during the execution of the Bank-ONEP-Project,
employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) In order to assist ONEP in the treatment of water drawn
from the Bou Regreg reservoir, ONEP shall, on or before January 1,
1980 (or such other date as the Bank may agree), employ an expert
specialized in water treatment whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(c) ONEP shall, on or before June 30, 1980 (or such other
date as the Bank may agree), take all appropriate measures to
take an inventory of all its assets as of such date and shall,
promptly thereafter, take all action necessary to establish
legal title to said assets.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works required for the Bank-ONEP-
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
hp governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ONEP undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by ONEP to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ONEP shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Bank-ONEP-Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ONEP shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿-3-
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the ONEP-Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; it being understood that, with respect to sub-Part A (5)
of the Project, ONEP shall furnish to the Bank only the timetable
for the execution of such sub-Part of the Project.
(b) ONEP: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor, on a quarterly basis and using indicators
satisfactory to ONEP and the Bank, the progress of the Bank-ONEP-
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the ONEP-
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
ONEP-Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank, on a quarterly basis, all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the ONEP-
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds and shall
promptly take any remedial action proposed by the Bank on the
basis of the information furnished to the Bank.
(c) Promptly after completion of the ONEP-Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ONEP and the
Bank, ONEP shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the ONEP-Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perfor-
mance by ONEP and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
(d) ONEP shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of ONEP and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. ONEP shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the ONEP-Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank


﻿-4-
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the ONEP-Project.
Section 2.07. ONEP shall duly perform all its obligations
under the ONEP Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ONEP shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the ONEP Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) ONEP shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
ONEP-Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the ONEP Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ONEP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the ONEP-Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
or the performance by ONEP of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the ONEP Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ONEP
Section 3.01. ONEP shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
business, financial, engineering and public utility practices and
under the supervision of competent and experienced management.
Section 3.02. ONEP shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. (a) ONEP shall ensure that the organization
study and its implementation, which are currently under way,
be promptly completed with the assistance of consultants already
employed to that effect.
(b) ONEP shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that the
new accounting system (including relevant procedures) become fully
operational not later than December 31, 1979 (or such other date
as the Bank and ONEP may agree).


﻿-5-
(c) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
provisions of paragraph (a) above, ONEP (i) shall, for the pur-
pose of improving its operational procedures (in particular
with respect to its rural centers), initiate a study, not later
than January 1, 1980 (or such other date as the Bank may agree),
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower, ONEP and
the Bank, (ii) shall complete such study within nine months after
the beginning of such study, (iii) shall, promptly upon the
completion of such study, make it available to the Borrower and
the Bank for their comments, and (iv) shall, on or before
January 1, 1981 (or such other date as the Bank may agree), take
all appropriate steps to implement such recommendations, taking
into account the Bank's and the Borrower's comments.
Section 3.04. ONEP shall at all times take all steps which
are necessary to maintain its existence and its right to carry on
operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and to
maintain and renew all interests in land and other properties and
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the carrying out of the ONEP-Project or in the
conduct of its business.
Section 3.05. (a) ONEP shall, at all times, maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and promptly
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance
with appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
(b) ONEP shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ONEP shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) ONEP shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
henceforth furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,


﻿-6-
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of ONEP and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(b) The foregoing provisions supersede any other prior
agreement between ONEP and the Bank on the same subject.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank and ONEP shall otherwise
agree, ONEP shall take all necessary measures, including but not
limited to adjustments in its tariffs for all water services
provided by ONEP, as shall be required to enable it to earn an
annual rate of return of not less than 2% for the period ending
1980, 5% for the period ending 1981 and 7% for the period ending
1982 and for each succeeding year thereafter.
\) For the purposes of the foregoing paragraph:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating net operat-
ing income for that year to the average of the
value of net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between (A) the total of all revenues
from ONEP's water activities increased by those
parts of the Borrower's contribution which are
fully committed towards ONEP's investments for
the year under consideration, and which offset
ONEP's losses in operating ONEP's small centers,
and until December 31, 1981, the annual grant paid
to ONEP by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 of
the Loan Agreement; and (B) all operating expenses
including direct costs of operation, administra-
tion, overhead, adequate maintenance expenses,
straight-line depreciation, based on the useful
life of assets, so that total depreciation in any
year is not less than two and one-half per cent,
but not more than three per cent of total fixed
asset values at the beginning of the year before
deducting accumulated depreciation and taxes (if
any), but excluding interest and other charges on
debt;


﻿-7-
(iii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in
operation for ONEP's water activities less the
accumulated depreciation, both as valued or reval-
ued from time to time in accordance with appro-
priate and consistently maintained methods of val-
uation or revaluation acceptable to the Bank; and
(iv) "fixed assets in operation" includes the works
known as the Bou Regreg dam and its appurtenances
and any subsequent addition thereto and such works
and additions shall be included for calculation of
depreciation and annual return.
(c) The foregoing provisions supersede any prior other
agreement between ONEP and the Bank on the same subject.
(d) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
ONEP shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all
steps necessary to ensure that the existing bulk water tariffs
shall not be reduced until the completion of the ONEP-Project. In
addition ONEP shall, by the end of October of each year, prepare a
forecast of all its revenues and operating expenses for the coming
year in order to enable the Borrower to review the adequacy of
such tariffs in relation to the foregoing obligations of ONEP and
then furnish to the Bank a copy of such forecast promptly upon its
preparation.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank and ONEP shall otherwise
agree, ONEP shall not, henceforth, incur any debt (other than for
financing the ONEP-Project), unless its net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve
months period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than 1-1/2 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all ONEP's
debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" shall mean all debt or other
liability of ONEP including debt for the service of
which ONEP is responsible, except debt incurred in
the ordinary course of business and maturing by its
terms on demand or less than one year after its
incurrence;


﻿-8-
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt;
(iii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract or loan
agreement providing for such debt or, in the case
of a guarantee of debt, on the date of execution
and delivery of the contract providing for such
guarantee;
(iv) the term "net revenue" means gross operating
revenue, adjusted to take account of rates in
effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though such rates were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-mon-Lh period to which such
revenue relates, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and
administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt;
(v) the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(vi) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is obtainable by ONEP, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purpose of servic-
ing such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of ONEP thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify ONEP thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ONEP:
Office National de l'Eau
Potable
6 bis Rue Patrice Lumumba
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:
ONEP RABAT-CHELLAH
Rabat, Morocco


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ONEP, or by ONEP on behalf of the
Borrower under Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its President du Conseil d'Administration or such
other person or persons as ONEP shall designate in writing, and
ONEP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the author-
ity and the authenticated spezimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L'EAU POTABLE
By /s/ Ali Benjelloun
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ONEP shall prepare and for-
ward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. ONEP shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in the Bank-ONEP-Project
(except for those referred to in Part C hereof) shall be prequali-
fied as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competiti-e bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to ONEP of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Morocco if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of ONEP and the Bank that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Morocco equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods


﻿- 13 -
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Works and goods to be procured by ONEP may be procured
under local procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank pro-
vided, however, that the total amount of goods and works so
procured by the Borrower shall not exceed $4,000,000 equivalent
(including taxes) and the cost of each individual contract for
works and for goods shall not exceed, respectively, $450,000 and
$100,000 equivalent (including taxes).
(b) ONEP shall make appropriate arrangements with Office
National de l'Electricite for the construction, for the account
of ONEP, of power transmission lines to the Ahmar Boudhar well
field and to the Sidi Bou Shab treatment plant, such construction
to be carried out according to the national procurement rules for
public contracts.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. ONEP shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifi-
cation shall be furnished by ONEP to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of ONEP's decision, and ONEP
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials and equipment
and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 and
$450,000 or more, respectively:


﻿- 14 -
(a) Before bids are invited, ONEP shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ONEP
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said consultants and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ONEP and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, ONEP shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform ONEP and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 15 -
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
thE terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, ONEP shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform ONEP and state the reasons for its determination.


