D)ocummt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11475
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1827-IVC)
DECEMBER 23, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :11475 IVC    Type: (PCR)
Title:  SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO
Author: JAMES, E
Ext. :31765 Room:T9057 Dept. :OEDD1
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Units - CFA2
Averate Anriual Exchante Rates
1980   211  CFAF     -    US$1
1981   272  CPAP     -    US$1
1982   329  CPAF     -    US$1
1983   381  CFAP     -    US$1
1984   437  CFAP     -    US$1
1985   449  ClAF     -    US$1
1986   346  ClAF     -    US$1
1987   301  CFAF     -    US$1
ABBREVIATIONS
BETPA       -     Bureau d'Etudes Techniques des Projets Agricoles
BNDA        -     Banque Nationale pour le Ddveloppement Agricole
CAA         -     Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CE          -     Conseil de l'Entente
CIDT        -     Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le D6veloppement des Textiles
DSREA       -     Direction des Statistiques Rurales et des Enquates
Agricoles
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FAC         -     Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IDESSA      -     Institut des Savanes
IFAD        -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
M&E         -     Monitoring and Evaluation
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PO          -     Points d'Observation (observation sites)
RD          -     Rural Development
R/D         -     Research and Development
RMWA        -     Regional Mission in Western Africa
SAR         -     Staff Appraisal Report
SATMACI     -     Soci6t6 d'Assistance Teenique pour la
Modernisation Agricole de la C8te d'Ivoire
SODECI      -     Socift6 de Distribution des Eaux en Cote dl'voire
SODERIZ     -     Soci6t6 de Developpement de la Riziculture
USAID       -     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December   31
CIDT: October 1 - September 30



FOR OIMCIAL USE ONLY
tHE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Olreetot-Genrl
Operations Evaluaton
December 23, 1992
MEMQRANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Cate d'lvoire
North-East Savannah Rural Development Project
(Loan 1827-IVC)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Cate
d'lvoire-North-East Savannah Rural Development Project (Loan 1 827-IVC)' prepared by the
Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This pilot project tested improved -farming systems and alternative approaches to
applied research and the provision of agricultural services to farmers. It also expanded the
basic infrastructure in a poor, isolated region. While the credit, cooperatives, and monitoring
and evaluation components had limited results, the applied research and extension
components were successful. More productive farming practices combining cotton cultivation
and food crops were disseminated among large numbers of farmers. Lessons regarding
applied research and extension, as well as infrastructure maintenance, have been integrated
into several nation-wide projects.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory and sustainable.
The Project Completion Report Is informative and comprehensive. No audit is
planned.
Attachment
I TMs documet hs a tetcted distbon and my be wed by recipents only In the performnce of
thL r officl dti&ss. Its contnts may not othewise be disclosed wIhout Wold Bank authrzon.



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CME D' IVOIRE
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1827-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface             ....................  . 1
Evaluation Suary . ... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .             ill
PART I; PROJECT REMVEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . .           1
1.  Project Identity  . . . ...........                     1
2. Background .  . . . . .1
3. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . .           2
4.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . .          3
5. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
7.  Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
8. Bank Perfonmance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
9.  Borrover Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .          9
10.  Project Relationshp . . . . . ........                  9
11.  Consulting Services  . .. .  .... ...                   9
12.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . .               10
PART IT: PROJECT REVIRW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . .          11
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORATION  . . . . . .  .. .. .             16
Table 1. Related Bank and IFAD Loans  . . . . . .          16
Table 2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . .    . .. .       16
Table 3. Loan Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . .          17
Table 4.  Project Costs snd Financing  . . . . . .         18
Table 5.  Project Results  . . . . . . .. . . .  .         19
Table 6.  Status of Loan Covenants . . . . . . . .         21
Table 7. Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . .          22
M&P: IBRD 13826
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforfmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1.-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1827-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the North-East
Savannah Rural Development Project in C8te d'Ivoire, for which Loan 1827-IVC
in the amount of US$9.4 million equivalent was approved on March 27, 1980.
The project was cofinanced by the Conseil de l'Entente through its Fonds
d'Entraide et de GCrantie using PAC snd USAID funds.  FAC grant amounted to
US$1.4 million equivalent. USAID loon amounted to US$3.7 million equivalent.
IBRD loan was closed on September 30, 1987, two years later than the original
closing date. It was almost fully disbursed, and after the last disbursement
in April 1988, an unused balance of US$589,136.39 was canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III) and the Borrower (Part II).  Parts I and III were sent to Government
and CIDT, the project's implementing agency, which provided comments during a
review meeting held in February 1992. These comments have been incorporated
in Part I. Cofinanciers (CofseAil de l'Bntente, USAID and PAC) have not
provided comments.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agrements, supervision reports, mid-
term review, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and independent
evaluation studies of the project. A short field mission was carried out in
January 1992 to update information.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRR
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPNKNT PROJECT
(LOAN 1827-IVC)
EVALUATION SVMMARY
Proiect Obiectives
1.          The main objective of this pilot operation was to gather basic
information about existing farming systems, development potential in the
region, and farmers' response to now crops and technologies for designing a
sound strategy for future economic and social development of this most remote
and poor region of C8te d'Ilvoire. The project's strategy and design were
based on the development of food crop production through improved farming
methods and marketing. Improvements in storage facilities, feeder road
network and village water supply were also provided to improve the daily lives
of the population.
Implementation ExDerience
2.          The project was satisfactorily implemented.  Its main achievements
wers in the areas of applied research, extension services, animal traction
promotion and rural infrastructure. An extensive program of applied/adaptive
research was carried-out jointly on decentralized research stations and
through farm trials which permitted to successfully test and introduce new,
well adapted food crops varieties and simple technical packages. An efficient
extension system was set up in the project area and, after the successful
introduction of cotton production in 1984, animal traction developed rapidly.
An important infrastructure program was also implemented (feeder roads,
village water supply, bottomland development), which had a significant
positive impact on the economic development of the area and the living
conditions of the local population.
3.          Less satisfactory was project performance in the area of
agricultural credit, where recovery levels were very low, cooperative
development, and monitoring & evaluation.  The project failed to improve the
economic base and the financial viability of the region's cooperatives, in
large part because it failed to improve their bargaining power vie & vis the
traditional food crop marketing channels, or to develop new ones. The
project's M&E unit did not provide the detailed information necessary to
better understand the region's prevailing farming systems (and development
constraints) and assess project's impact. The maintenance of the



- iv -
infrastructure created under the project by public agencies (feeder roads)
and/or population (village wells) was not adequate.
4.          CIDT's performance as the project's main executing agency was very
satisfactory, as was IDESSA's in implementing the research program. However,
the performance of BIDA (credit), Binistry of Public Works (feeder roads) and
SODECI (water supply) was poor, and CIDT had to take over direct
implementation responsibility to ensure satisfactory project implementation.
Lengthy procurement and disbursement procedures at central government levels
were also serious constraints to project execution. Finally, Bank's
performance was generally adequate although it failed--at appraisal and during
the mid-term review--to recognize the development potential of livestock and
cotton production. Cotton was eventually introduced in 1984 and proved to be
a major factor in the region's development.
Results.
5.          The project's physical objectives were generally achieved or
exceeded. At the end of the project, extension services were in direct
contact with 6,500 farmers, i.e. about 202 of the total number in the area and
nearly three times the appraisal target (2,400). Globally, farmers'
acceptance of improved varieties introduced after testing under the Research
and Development (RID) program was good. Rowever, farmers' response to
technical packages aimed at intensification through the use of modern inputs
was limited to cotton, for which secure and remunerative outlets existed, and
to a lesser extent to rice. The area under cotton grew from 60 ha in 1984 to
more than 21,000 ha in 1987. .Cotton development was a major factor in the
success of animal tractiont 230 farmers were equipped against 90 envisaged at
appraisal.  About 380 km of feeder roads were opened (280 km at appraisal) and
90 wells constructed (60). The project had a significant impact on cotton and
to a lesser extent, rice production. For other food crops, it had no visibie
impact. It largely provided the socio-economic knowledge necessary to define
a clear strategy for the future development of the region. However, it is
estimated that it increased agricultural incomes in the area by about 102
above pre-project levels and its infrastructure component had a very
beneficial impact on the local populations.
Sustainabilitv
6.          Extension services by CIDT, initiated under the project, are now
well established and the North-East region is fully integrated into CIDT's
organization. The number of farmers receiving extension services continued to
expand and the area under cotton has doubled since the end of the project,
growing from 2,000 ha in 1987188 to close to 4,000 ha (for over 5,000 farmers)
in 1989/90. However, cooperative development as well as marketing and credit
arrangements have achieved little progress. The maintenance of infrastructure
established under the project is continuing to be a problem, as public funds
are severely curtailed by the country budgetary crisis. However, wells
established under the project are being rehabilitated under a Bank-flnanced



national program emphasizing on full participation of beneficiary populations
in their maintenance.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.          The project's main lessons can be summarized as f'-lowst
(a)   For a projeat of an experimental nature, flexibility in
implementation and very effective monitoring and evaluation
systems are essential to adapt to changing circumstances and
capitalize on unforeseen opportunitiest
(b)   Farmers' adoption of riskier technologies requiring the use of
modern inputs depends on the quality of the proposed technical
package but also most importantly on the availability of reliable,
remunerative marketing outlets for their increased production.
(c)   Public agencies cannot compete with private operators in marketing
of agricultural produce, in particular of food crops, and should
not attempt to do so.
(d)   Modernization of agriculture through investments requiring credit
can only be undertaken if cash crops provide the necessary income
and there is an adequate mechanism for credit recovery.
(e) In areas where development programs have never been carried out,
or for the introduction of major innovations, sociological surveys
are essential for assessing farmers' attitudes and constraints.
They can, however, lead to seriously flawed designs if they are
not properly carried out.
(f)   The proper maintenance of rural infrastructure (water supply,
bottomland, irrigated perimeters) requires full collaboration from
beneficiaries.



PROJECT CCMPLETION REPORT
COTE D' IVOIRE
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1827-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:    North-East Savannah Rural Development 'roject
Loan No:          1827 IVC
RVP Unit:         Africa Regional Office
Country:          COte d'Ivoire
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Area Developmont
2.    Backtround
2.01        Sector Develoyment Objectives.  At the time the project was
identified in the late 1970s, Government's agricultural development strategy
had changed from one based on the promotion of a few export crops and timber,
to the diversification of the agricultural production base. This
diversification included food crops as well as a broader number of export
crops.  The new strategy alo aimed at reducing regional income disparities,
expanding agriculture in previously neglected areas, alleviating rural poverty
and inducing young Ivorians to stay in agriculture, thus slowing down urban
drift. As a key element of this new strategy, the country's three main crop
development agencies, SODEPALM (oil palm in the Southern region), SATMACI
(cocoalcoffee in the South and Center), and CIDT (cotton in the North) were
given a global mandate for overall rural development in their respective
regions. The North-East Savannah Rural Development Project was des Igned to
implement Government's new strategy in one of the poorest area of Cate
d'Ivoire.
2.02        Pollgv Context. Government's main policies in the agriculture
sector aimed at protecting producer prices and farmer incomes against
fluctuations in world market prices and promoting balanced regional
development through large regional public investment programs. Government
also sponsored programs to promote small-scale enterprises. Agricultural
enterprises and plantations benefitted from this policy, which included
liberal access to agricultural credit for stimulating private investments in
agriculture. Land policy permitted new, mostly forested areas, to be cleared
for cultivation. Finally, liberal Imuigration policies resulted in large
numbers of workers coming to C8te d'Ivoire from neighboring countries to work
in agriculture, thus providing abundant and cheap labor. The combination of
these various factors lead to rapid agricultural growth in C8te d'Ivoire,
particularly in the ecologically more favorable Southern region but also in



- 2 -
the Savsnnah through the promotion of cotton cultivation and animal traction.
However, the North-East region of the country, remote and sparsely populated,
was largely excluded from the* development process.
2.03        LinkaS2 between Project. Sector and Kacro Policy.  The project's
objectives and design were closely in line with Government's overall economic
and social development objectives and policy. It wa. to: (a) benefit family
farms in one of the country's most remote and poorest area, thus reducing
incomes disparities between the region and the rest of the country (rer capita
rural income in the northeast was about one quarter of the national rural
average and 202 below the absolute poverty income level for rural areas); and
(b) focus on food crops and therefore reduce the country's growing dependance
on imports of food stuff.
3. Proiect Obaectives and Descriotion
3.01        Obiectives.  Because of the lack of basic agronomic and socio-
economic data, and uncertainties regarding farmers' response to the
introduction of new agricultural technologies, the project was designed as a
first-phase rural development projec  of a pilot nature.  It aimed at
gathering the missing information on prevailing farming systems and socio-
economic situation, to lay the foundation for future development principally
based on increased food crop production, and at testing and extending simple
technologies to improve farmers' productivity. To do so, basic studies and
surveys, applied research programs and monitoring and evaluation were
emphasized. Because the agricultural components would take time to yield
results, the project also ingluded investments in rural infrastructure (feeder
roads and village water supply) which would immediately improve the well-being
of a large part of the area's total population which amounted to about 250,000
people at appraisal.
3.02        Comwonents. The project was to be implemented over five
years and consisted ofs
(a)   three agricultural components, includings
(i) provision of extension, credit and marketing services to
farmers for cultivation of bottomland rice and other food
crops, and training some of these farmers in ox-drawn
cultivation;
(Ui) development of bottomland and rehabilitation of a small
(Kpoda) irrigation perimster and provision of extension,
credit and marketing services for rice and other crops to
farmers in the irrigated perimeters; and
(iii) a pilot demonstration and extension component for improving
traditional rainfed agriculture in the uplands;
(b)   applied research and field trials including:



- 3 -
(1)   establishment of an applied research unit and five
experimental stations in the project area; and
(ii) improving CIDT's existing applied research network in the
Northern and Central Savannah regions;
(c)   development of cooperative activities in particular for the
marketing of food crop.t
(d)   improvement of 275 km of feeder roads and access tracke;
(e)   improvement of village water supply; and
(f)   establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit and carrying out
of surveys and studies, including the preparation of a follow-up
project.
4.    Proiect Design and Orxanization
4.01         The project concept was originally proposed in a 1975 report by
the Ministry of Agriculture charting a possible development strategy for the
North-East Savannah region. This report wss the basis for two identification
missions by the Bank's Regional Mission in West Africa (RMWA) which prepared
detailed terms of reference for project preparation by the Bureau d'Etudes
Techniques des Projets Agricoles (BKTPA), the planning/project preparation
agency of the Ministry of Agriculture. Although preparation was monitored
closely by RMWA, appraisal proved difficult and required two full-fledged
missions. The original proposal was considered excessive for a project of a
pilot nature, with a total cost estimated at US$40 million equivalent. The
project was scaled-down to a size and cost (US$21 million equivalent) that
some participants at the Decision Meeting following the appraisal mission
found still unduly large in view of the meager data base.  However, project
design, content and cost were not altered.
4.02        Contrary to what was often done for other rural development
projects, project implementation was fully integrated within the existing
institutional structure.  Primary responsibility for implementation was
entrusted to the Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le D4veloppement des Textiles
(CIDT) whose mandate had been enlarged in 1978 from that of a cotton
development agency to the promotion of rural development at large in the
Savannah region. Within CIDT, project implementation was not considered a
separate activity but rather part of CIDT's normal operations. This design
proved to be appropriate and efficient.
4.03        CIDT subcontracted the actual implementation of several project
components to other national institutions (research, cooperative development,
rural roads, construction and maintenance of wells, and studies), under
contractual agreements. These arrangements were generally satisfactory even
though they had to be revised in some instances due to institutional changes
which occurred over the 7 years of project implementation. The major problem



- 4 -
with project organization was that CIDT had little experience iA food crops
development (its focus was cotton), and was not used to identifying axd
solving problems for their production and marketing. Also, CIDT'o very
centralized management did not allow all the flexibility necessary for
impleaenting a pilot project. A more flexible management approach might have
permitted a quicker survey of project design.
4.04         It became apparent early in project implementation that it had
been a mistake to exclude cotton promotion from the project and totally base
its development strategy on traditional foods crops. The exclusion of cotton
production was based on a (brief) sociological survey of the region which
concluded that because of a very traumatic first experience with cotton during
the colonial period, local populations were strongly opposed to its
production. The study's assessment turned out to be erroneous. Faced with
difficulties in promoting food crop development, it was finally decided in
'984 to introduce cotton in the project area. Because of the cash income it
provided, farmers' response was very positive and cotton production expanded
rapidly. The introduction of cotton was very favorable to the promotion of
snimal traction. The sociological survey also failed to identify the
constraints to animal traction development resulting from the difficult access
to land of new settlers migrating into the project area (Lobi). Indeed,
animal traction implies stabilization of agriculture and local populations
were reluctant to give new migrants access to land for permanent cropping.
4.05        On the other hand, project design was overly optimistic about the
ability of the project to solve food crop marketing problems. As it turned
out, farmers experienced maj9r problems in finding outlets for incremental
food crop production through traditional marketing systems and the project
failed to develop alternative channels. As a result, farmers were
understandably reluctant to increase production through riskier tecbnologies
without assured markets at remunerative prices. Other design shortcomings
include: (a) inadequate attention to soil fragility and preservation; (b)
over-estimated possible expansion of Ipoda irrigated perimeter; and (c) the
absence of a livestock component (cattle, small ruminants and poultry) which
are important features of smallholder agriculture and for which the region
offered attractive development prospects.
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.01        The Bank loan became effective in December 1980. Its closing date
was extended twice from September 1985 to September 1987. An undisbursed
balance of US$589,136 vas canceled. The project was satisfactorily
implemented largely because of CTDT'a technical and management skills. Its
major achievements were in the area of applied research, extension services,
animal traction promotion and rural infrastructure. Three observation sites
(Points d'Observation (PO)) were established in the project area to implement
applied research prograv' (under controlled conditions) and an extensive
program of farm trials was carried-out in collaboration with the Savannah
Research Institute (IDESSA). The project also financed the rehabilitation of
10 POs in other locations of the Savannah region, to provide CIDT/IDESSA with
a comprehensive network of applied research sites. CIDT established in the



- 5 -
project area extension services along the same lines as in other areas of the
Savannah region. In 1986, extension services vere reorganized along the lines
of the Training and Visit (T&V) system under the Bank-financed Agricultural
Extension Project (Loan 2765-IVC). A center was set up to provide initial
training to farmers for animal traction and credit was made available to
finance the required investments. Implementation of the rural infrastructure
program exceeded appraisal targets for feeder roads, water supply, buildings
and bottomland development, with CIDT being sometimse obliged to take over
direct implementation responsibility from other agencies to ensure
satisfactory implementation. A few villages organixed themselves to ensure
proper maintenance of the bore wells constructed under the project. However,
many did not and these wells stopped functioning after a short time.
5.02        The project's main shortcomings were in the area of cooperatives
development, food crop marketing, credit and monitoring and evaluation.
Project's action in favor of cooperatives started only in 1984 and was limited
to the training of cooperative leaders and employees and to the setting-up of
more reliable accounting systems. However, the project failed to
significantly improve the cooperatives' economic base and financial viability.
Credit operations for agricultural inputs and farm equipment were to be
carried-out by CIDT and BNDA. BNU's performance was poor and CIDT had to
take full responsibility for credit distribution and recovery. Credit
recovery was only 24Z, the poorest of all CIDT zones, because of a general
lack of credit discipline and of the low volume of cotton production through
which CIDT usually recovers credit. Although the project was successful in
implementing simple, low cost bottomland development, the rehabilitation of
the Kpoda perimeter was more, expensive than projected, on a per ha basis,
because the command area was smaller than anticipated. The maintenance of the
perimeter and water management was also a problem because of the lack of
effective participation by farmers. The project's M&E system did not perform
satisfactorily. The base line survey was carried-out but its exploitation was
delayed and incomplete. Follow-up surveys were unsatisfactory. As a result,
the system provided only partial insights in prevailing farming systems and
their evolution and on the project impact.
5.03        A cowprehensive mid-term review was carried out in June 1982 by
the project's three external financiers (Bank, USAID and FAC/CE). This
review, which took place too early (18 months after loan effectiveness),
concluded that, although the project had not yet succeeded in weeting its
prime objectives, its concept was fundamentally sound. It therefore proposed
reinforcement of priority actions - cooperative development, marketing and
credit, monitoring and evaluation and administration and finance. It proposed
expansion of animal traction, bottomland development, applied research and
feeder roads. The severe drought of 1983 focussed attention on the short term
difficulties of agricultural production, and the long term development
problems remained unresolved.
5.04         In 1984, the persistent failure to successfully implement the
initial development strategy based on a food crop driven development brought
about a major revision of project concept and design. It was finally decided
to introduce cotton production in the project area and to test its real



-6 -
potential as a cash crop on which future development could be based. The
project was extended by two years to cover the trial period. A feasibility
study for a second phase project was carried-out by consultants. This study
was of mediocre quality. The detailed preparation of the follow-up project
was undertaken by FAO Investment Center. The project was appraised by IFAD in
1991.
5.05        'rocurement procedures were unduly long and cumbersome asnd they
slowed down project implementation. Financial management of the project was
not satisfactory au-d disbursement was continuously behind schedule because of
long delays in the processing of disbursement requests. In 1984, an amendment
to the Loan Agreement set up a Special Account to speed up disbursements.
However, its resources covered only two months of project expenditures when
about nine months would have been necessary because of the delays mentioned
above. CIDT overcame this difficulty through the permanent prefinancing of
project activities on its own resources to a level of up to CFAF 1.0 billion
(US$3.0 million equivalent).
6.    Prolect Results
6.01        The project's main positive results are due to the
research/extension impact on production, in particular the introduction of
cotton, and the infrastructure component. Physical objectives were generally
achieved or exceeded. At the end of the project, extension services were in
direct contact with about 6,500 farmers, about 202 of the total number of
farmers in the area and nearly three times the appraisal target (2,400).
Globally, farmers' acceptance of improved varieties, introduced after being
tested under the R/D program, wa good. However, farmers' response to
technical packages aimed at intensification and based on modern inputs was
limited to cotton and rice for which secure outlets existed and farmers could
have access to credit. For the other food crops, marketed through traditional
channels, farmers were reluctant to adopt the riskier technologies proposed.
The impact of extension efforts was clearly positive for cotton and, to a
lesser extent, rice production. In particular, the area under cotton grew
from 60 ha in 1984/85 to 2,000 ha in 1987/88. For other food crops, the
project had no visible impact.
6.02        Although there was no detailed assessment of the project's applied
research component, it appears t"at it was one of the main achievements of the
project. Many of the varieties tested were successfully introduced. Also,
project's activities in this area helped clarifying the concept of
applied/adaptive research and its role in the global research-extension
system. Lessons from the project have been useful to design and implement the
overall applied research program carried-out by CIDT/IDESSA in the entire
Savannah region. About 380 km of feeder roads were constructed and maintained
(280 km projected). Ninety-two tube wells realized (60). Ox-drawn equipment
was provided to 230 farmers against 90 envisaged at appraisal. The opening up
of feeder roads had a significant impact on the area's agricultural and
overall development and the provision of adequate water supply had a very
beneficial effect on the health status of populations.



6.03        The Governmont's (Part II) PCR estimates project costs at CFAF 6.5
billion (US$18 million equivalent) against the appraisal estimate of CFAP 4.4
billion (US$21 million equivalent), with a weighted actual average exchange
rate of CFAF 358 to the dollar against CFAP 210 at appraisal. However, this
estimate does not include either the cost of agricultural iuputs or the costs
incurred by the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out the studies undertaken
under the project. Allowing for these, project costs in dollar terms would
probably be very close to the appraisal estimate of US$21 million equivalent.
About 472 of total project costs were financed by the Bank, 192 by USAID, 42
by The French Ministry of Cooperation (FAC) and 302 by Government.
6.04        The value of project incremental agricultural production over the
1980-87 period is estimated at about CFAF 4.4 billion and the related added
value at about CFAP 4.2 billion. In 1987, the average incremental per capita
income of the population of the project area is estimated to have been about
CFAF 5,000 which represents an increase of 102 above pre-project levels.
6.05        At appraisal, a cost/benefit analysis was carried out only for the
productive components of the project. The table below summarizes the
recalculated ERRs on those components. The bottomland development component
and the Kpoda irrigation schemes have both negative rates of return, which
indicates that irrigated rice production, at current price, productivity and
investment cost levels, is not viable in the project area.
BottanLosd dev.    Kpods Irrigation  Rainfed Agric.
Scheb  ,      . schsle         Day fthow
EJR (Anraisat Report)  23,5 X            11 X           13.6 X
ERR Catculated
- over 20 years       - 11 X           - 15 X             10 X
- over 25 years       - 6X             - 9X               12X
6.06        The Government had calculated (see Part II below) the project
overall rate of return, extrapolating incremental production after the project
by linear progression and excluding research and other cost not directly
related to production. On this basis, the project overall rate of return was
estimated at 152 over 15 years and 202 over 20 years. This, however, appears
optimistic. It is based on exaggerated benefits from traditional food crops
(particularly yams) and the production of irrigated rice is extrapolated
without allowing the necessary additional investments. This implies that the
overall economic rate of return of the project is probably marginal. However,
expected economic benefits from a pilot project such as this Project are
difficult to estimate as they essentially depend on what follow-up action is
taken. In addition, since beneficiaries are the extreme poor in C8te
d'Ivoire, accounting for impact on poverty alleviation suggests that the
project had a net positive overall impact.



-8-
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.01        The project's fundamental activity, the provision of extension
services by CIDT based on thorough applied/adaptive research progrsms, is
being sustained. The North-East is now fully integrated into CIDT's
organization. The number of farmers receiving extension services has
continued to expand after the completion of the project. The area under
cotton has grown from 60 ha in 1984/85 to 2,000 ha in 1987/88 and to 3.671 ha
(for 5,159 farmers) in 1989/90. However, little progress is evident in the
development of cooperatives, marketing or credit. Upkeep of the buildings
constructed under the project continues to be assured by CIDT. That of the
rural roads and wells was transferred to the Ministry of Public Works after
project completion and it is not being properly done due to budgetary
constraints. Many wells ceased to function shortly after the end of the
project for lack of proper maintenance. This problem, not specific to the
North-last region, is being addressed nationally under a Bank-financed
rehabilitation program based on full participation of beneficiary populations
in well maintenance.
7.02        The essential development activities in the area, including
research and extension services, were financed under the Bank-supported
National Agricultural Extension Project which came on stream in 1986, and was
completed in December 1991. A specific rural development project has however
been prepared to pursue the development of the North-East region in the
context of a program in favor of areas freed from onchocerciasis. The project
was designed on lines similar to the North-East Project's and incorporates
many of its lessons. A loan.has recently been approved by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IPAD) for its financing, and implementation
should start in 1992.
8.   Bank Performance
8.01        Preparation and appraisal of the project was thorough.  The Bank's
own internal reviews of the appraisal's findings and recommendations were
thorough and many of their comments proved justified. However, there were
important shortcomings with regard to project design that the appraisal
mission failed to address: (a) an over-optimistic assessment of the
possibility to increase production of traditional food crops; (b) the
assumption that food crop marketing constraints could rapidly be solved by
project intervention; (c) optimistic assumptions regarding the recovery of
credit where repayments cannot be deducted from crop proceeds; (d) the
omission of cotton from the development strategy.
8.02        Supervision was carried out regularly, with 15 missions over the 7
year implementation period. There was a satisfactory degree of continuity in
mission staffing with the same agriculturalist carrying out the first 9
missions and the same engineer and/or livestock specialist participating in
every mission from 1981 to 1985. The missions addressed and made
recommendations on a large numbes of issues and Government's PCR records
appreciation of the way in which missions were conducted and the assistance
they provided. The chief shortcoming of Bank's supervision was not to



recognize quickly that traditional food crops could not provide a satisfactory
basis for development and to wait until 1984/85 to introduce cotton.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01       Apart from the failure to ensure satisfactory upkeep of feeder
roads and wells, Borrower performance was good. CIDT provided strong overall
direction and project management was sound. IDESSA performance on the
implementation of applied research component was good. BNDA's was very poor
in implementing the credit component. In common wiith other projects in Cote
d'Ivoire, the procedures for procurement and disbursement were extremely slow.
Financing of project implementation by Government was not satisfactory.
Counterpart funds were not transferred to CIDT in time. Similarly CIDT had no
direct access to the Special account, created in 1984 at the CMA. As a
result, CIDT had to use its own funds to prefinance project expenditures.
10.  Proiect Relationshils
10.01      Relationships between CIDT, the Bank and colenders were good. The
contractual arrangements between CIDT and the agencies responsible for the
execution of certain components were satisfactory, apart from those with
SODECI for the maintenance of wells.
11.  Consultint Services
11.01      The following studies were executed under the projects
(a)   agro-econamic baseline survey by the Direction des
Statistiques Rurales et des Enquates Agricoles (DSREA) of the
Ministry of Agriculture in 1980/81 (only part I and II wero
completed);
(b)  mapping of bottomlands with identification of land use;
(c)   sociology of the Lobi;
(d)   yam marketing;
(e)   groundnut marketing;
(f)   second phase feaibility.
The studies were of a satisfactory quality, except the second-phase
feasibility study which was mediocre at best, mostly because it Was conducted
without the full collaboration of national institutions, most importantly
CIDT's. The mapping of bottomlands substituted for a comprehensive land use
plan of the region based on satellite imagery which could not be completed.



- 10 -
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01       The Loan and Project Agreements provided an adequate framework for
project implementation. CIDT issued financial and program reports which were
timely and comprehensive. However, despite the time and effort that went into
monitoring and evaluation, the M&E Unit did not provide useful data to project
management. As a result, Government PCR (Part II) is based on incomplete data
on costs and benefits and, more importantly, the project did not provide the
socio-economic information necessary to develop a sound development strategy
for the region.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW PROM 80RROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/
13.01       The project was first identified by the Ivorian Government in
1975. After two identification missions by the World Bank in 1976 and 1977,
the detailed preparation was carried-out by Government's Agricultural Planning
and Project Preparation Unit (BETPA). Bank appraisal took place in 1978. The
cost of the project, to be implemented over a five year period, was estimated
at U$ 21.0 million financed by the World Bank (U$ 9,4 million), USAID/Conseil
de l'Entente (U$ 3,7 million), the PAC (U$ 1,4 million), Government (U$ 5,9
million) and beneficiaries (U$ 0.7 million). The Bank Loan was approved in
May 1980 and became effective in December 1980. There was a mid-term review
in June 1982. The closing date of the Bank Loan originally set to September
1985 was extended to September 1987 to permit full implementation of certain
components of the project.
13.02       The project was designed as the first, pilot phase, of a long term
rural development program aimed at improving the incomes and living standards
of the populations in the North Eastern region of Cote d'Ivoire, which is one
of the poorest of the country. Its specific objectives were to better
understand prevailing farming systems and their constraints, and to test new
technologies for the development of rainfed and irrigated food crops. To do
so, basic studies and surveys, applied and adaptive research programs and
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms were emphasized. Also, the project was
to (i) improve farmers access to basic agricultural services such as
extension, credit and marketing; (ii) promote animal traction, and (iii)
develop rural infrastructure such as feeder roads, storage facilities and
village water supply.
13.03       Project management was designed to be fully integrated in existing
institutions. CIDT, whose responsibilities were enlarged in 1978 from that of
a cotton development agency to the promotion of rurol development at large in
the Savannah region, was given the overall responsibility for project
implementation. However, CIDT subcontracted the actual implementation of
several components (research, promotion of cooperatives, feeder roads, water
supply) to other national institutions under specific contractual
arrangements.
Proiect's Results
13.04       Rural Infrastructure.  The project's quantitative objectives for
infrastructure establisbment were achieved or surpassed (feeder roads, water
supply, buildings, bottomland development), with CIDT sometimes being obliged
to take over direct responsibility from other agencies to ensure satisfactory
I/This is a summary, in English, of the Project Completion Report dated
September 1988 prepared in French by Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le
D6veloppement des Textiles (CIDT), the project's main executing agency.



- 12 -
implementation. About 380 km of feeder roads were established (280 km
projected) by the services of the Ministry of Transport and Civil Works.
However, CIDT had to set up its own unit to ensure the maintenance of this
network. Ninety two tube wells were realized (60 planned). Problems with the
maintenance of these wells appeared rapidly in some of the villages, while in
others people organized themselves to ensure proper maintenance. A study
undertaken by the project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit indicated that the
opening of feeder roads was one of the main factors in the agricultural and
overall de-elopment of the area and that adequate village water supply had a
very beneficial impact on the health status of populations and also increased
the time women could spend for other, productive activities.
13.05       The project envisagid the development of bottom land and the
rehabilitation of the Kpoda irrigation perimeter established in 1971. It was
relatively successful in the first area where it introduced simple, low cost
techniques for bottom land development. The rehabilitation of the Kpoda
perimeter, however, was confronted to serious problems. The potential
irrigated area turned out to be much smaller than projected (200 instead of
400 ha), which increased per ha rehabilitation costs and decreased the
economic return from the investment. Maintenance and water management was
inadequate. It is imperative to organize and train farmers for them to take
over the maintenance and the management of this, and similar perimeters.
13.06       Applied Research. Three observation sites (Points d'Observation -
P0) were established in the project area to implement applied research
programs (under controlled conditions) and a program of on-farm trials was
carried-out under contractual arrangements with the Savannah Research
Institute (IDESSA). The project also financed the rehabilitation of 10 POe in
other locations of the Savannah region, to provide CIDT/IDESSA with a
comprehensive network of applied research stations. Research programs
concentrated at first on food crops (yams, maize, groundnut) but cotton was
also introduced at a later stage. They e.oncerned the testing of new varieties
under specific agroecological conditions, adjustments of cropping calendars,
fertilization and crop protection. Although a detailed technical review of
the component's results has yet to be carried-out, it is clear that it was one
of the main achievements of the project. Many of the varietiesltechniques
tested have been successfully extended and adopted by farmers. Also, the
project helped clarifying the concept of appliediadaptive research, its role
in the research-extension system and the appropriate linkages neci 'sary with
research programs on the one hand and farm trials on the other. Lessons from
the project in this area have been used to design and implement the overall
applied research program of CIDT/IDESSA in the Savannah region.
13.07       Extension Services.  CIDT established in the North East region
extension services along the same lines than those already existing in other
areas to the Savannah. About 105 field level extension agents were put in
charge of providing extension services to the area's farmers (about 34,000 in
total). In 1986, extension services under the project were re-organized along
the lines of the Training and Visit system (along with CIDT's entire extension
services), under the Bank-financed Agricultural Extension project (Loan 2765-
IVC). During the first few years of project implementation, extension efforts



- 13 -
concentrated on improving the productivity of food cropst rice (rainfed and
irrigated), maize, groundnut, yrsm. However, it was decided in 1984 to
promote the production of cotton in the project area although preliminary
sociological studies, which turned out to be wrong, had found that the local
populations were strongly opposed to producing this crop.
13.08      At the end of the project (1986/87), the project's extension
services were in direct contact with 6,500 farmers (or 212 of the total number
of farmers in the project area), cultivating about 16,300 ha under various
crops. This represented about 2302 of the appraisal target (2,400 farmers)
and is indicative both of CIDT's efforts to provide services to the area
farmers and of the latter's responsiveness. Globally, farmer.' acceptance of
the improved varieties introduced under the project after being tested under
the RID program was good. However, farmers' response to technical packages
aimed at intensification and based on modern inputs was very limited except
for cotton and, to a lesser extent, rice because these crops benefit from
secure marketing channels at guaranteed and attractive prices, and farmers
could have access to credit for financing the required inputs. For the other
food crops, marketed through traditional channels and with yields variable
with climatic conditions, farmers were reluctant to take the increased risks
linked to intensification packages. The impact of project's extension efforts
was clearly positive for cotton production, and to a lesser extent for rice
production. Although introduced recently, cotton is fast becoming the main
cash crop of the area. For other food crops, the project had no visible
impact.
13.09            MechanixatSon.  Project's efforts in this area were mostly
concentrated on the promotion of animal traction (for rainfed crops) and
motoculteurs (fir irrigated rice). A training center was established for
providing initial training to farmers for animal traction. The number of
farmers using animal traction in the project area increased by about 230, from
70 in 1980 to 300 in 1987, against an increase of 90 estimated at appraisal.
Thirty farmers purchased (on credit) motoculteurs. These results were
achieved in spite of constraints specific to the project area: (i) the area
farmers practice mostly traditional manual agriculture and it will take some
time before they reach the technological/management level necessary for animal
traction; (ii) the purchase of animals and equipment requires access to credit
and therefore a level of monetary income ensured only by a cash crop such as
cotton (just being introduced in the area); and (iii) animal traction implies
stabilization of agriculture, and adoption of this technology by new settlers
from outside the region is constrained by the reluctance of local populations
to give access to land for permanent cropping.
13.10      Coo2eratives. Marketlin  and Credit.  There exist 123 cooperatives
(GVCs) in the project area, with about 6,100 members. These cooperatives are
mostly organized around the marketing of food crops, yams in particular, and
karit6. They have formed two regional cooperative unions in Bouna
(COCOPRAGEL) and Bondoukou (UNIVIBO). The GVCs and their Unions were faced
with mounting difficulties to market their members' production through
informal channels. Under the project, actions in favor of cooperatives



- 14 -
started only in 1984 and was limited to the training of cooperatives leaders and
employees in general cooperation and management principles, and the introduction
of more reliable accounting procedures.
13.11       CIDT tried to intervene in the marketing of food crops produced in
the project area, on the basis of its experience with cotton marketing. It
started to buy rice, groundaut, maize and even yams from farmers, and to sell
these produce to processors or middlemen in the main consumption markets.
However, it soon ran into difficulties for financing the purchase and marketing
of the crops, and it was unable to compete with traditional marketing operators.
Confronted with mounting financial losses, it stopped its direct interventions
in the marketing of food crops. The project also launched two studies on yaw
and groundnut marketing which both concluded that the development of "modern"
organized marketing channels was not possible under prevailing circumstances and
that these channels would not be able to compete with traditional  informal"
marketing operators.
13.12       The project's credit component was to be financed by BNDA on its own
resources and implemented jointly by CIDT and BNDA. In fact, CIDT agents
assumed, for all practical purposes, the entire responsibility for credit
operations (distribution of inputs and equipment, loan recovery) since BNDA,
although bearing the credit risk, had hardly any field agents. Credit recovery
performance has been poor, due to a general lack of credit discipline and of
guarantees (because of the fact that the largest part of farmers' production is
marketed through informal channels).
13.13       Monitorint and Evaluation.  The project's M&E components had three
main objectives3 to better understand the area farming systems; to identify
constraints to increased productivity and productions and to assess project's
impact on farmers' productioh and incomes. This was to be realized through a
comprehensive base line survey, regular collection of relevant information
through follow-up field surveys, and specific studies on interesting issues.
The base line survey was carried-out in 1980/81 by Department of Agricultural
statistics of the Ministry of Agriculture. It was however only partially
exploited because of difficulties in processing the data collected. Various
qualitative studies were also undertaken. In spite of the relatively heavy M&E
system set-up by CIDT, the project had great difficulties in producing
meaningful insights in prevailing farming systems, constraints to development
and, most of all, the impact of the project on production and incomes. The
project's M&E gradually shifted to collecting statistical information on
production and use of inputs, along the lines used elsewhere by CIDT for its own
operations. Several specific studies were carried-out (evolution of land-use by
satellite imagery, socio-economic study of Lobi ethnic group, study of
bottomland potentional, yam and groundnut production and marketing) which were
used for the preparation of the second-phase project. The feasibility study for
this second-phase project was carried-out by an external consulting firm. It
was of mediocre quality. It would have been advisable that the study be
prepared in full collaboration with CIDT to avoid conflicting approaches and
build on existing knowledge of prevailing conditions.
Financial and Economic Asgect.
13.14       Financial Manatement. Under the project, a special account was set-
up to help in the financing of project activities. However, the special account



- 15 -
represented not more than two months of project's expenditures, when the
preparation and processing of diebursement requests, because of cumbersome
administrative procedures, required more than nine months in total. As a
result, CIDT had to pre-finance project's expenditures, on its own resources, up
to a level of CFAF 1.0 billion.
13.15       Incremental Production and Incomes.  Based on data collected by the
project's M&E Unit, the incremental production at the end of the project was
estimated to have reacheds 1,400 tons of cotton, 9,000 tons of rico, 20,000 tons
of yams. The production of maize, sorghum and groundnut stagnated or even
regressed. Farmers' income increas-sd globally by about CPAP 1.3 billion (in
1986) for the entire project area, is about CPAP 50,000 per participating
farmer. A qualitative survey found that ownership of consumer durable (radios,
bicycles) was higher for participating farmers than for non-participating ones.
Participating farmers also seemed to own more cattle, one of the principal means
of savings in the area. The project ERR has been recalculated at 152 over a 15
year period and 202 over a 20 year period../
Role of the World Bank
13.16       Collaboration with the Bank was good, although more continuity in
the staffing of Bank's supervision mission would have been beneficial to ensure
consistency of recommendations. There were 11 supervision missions and one mid-
term review mission in June 1982. The mission's recommendations were in general
relevant and CIDT implemented those under its responsibility.
Main Conclusions
13.17       Project implementation was satisfactory mainly because (i) it was
carried-out by an institution (CIDT) with a long experience in rural development
in the Savannah region of Cote d'Ivoires and (ii) CIDT pre-financed project
expenditures on its own resources. The project has created an important
infrastructure in an area until then very poorly equipped. By doing so, it
improved significantly the living conditions in the area. It allowed to expand
CIDT's extension/agricultural services to areas where farmers had previously no
access to these services. The project also developed new approaches in the
field of applied research and rural infrastructure that are now usefully applied
in other parts of the Savannah region. Finally, it permitted a better knowledge
of the region's sncio-economic and agricultural characteristics on which future
development strategy/programs can be based. Its impact on the marketing of food
crops was however negligible.
13.18       The main lesson from the project is that the modernization and
intensification of agriculture - which require the use of modern inputs, and
investments - is possible only when there is a cash crop that can act as the
engine for development. In the North-East region, only cotton and rice appear
to be able to play that role and future development will need to based on these
two crops, with the development of animal traction for increasing labor
productivity.
/ see Section I, para 6.06 for a discussion of why this recalculation
(done for the 1988 draft PCR) seems optimistic, and para 6.03 for
comments on project costs estimates. The government and CIDT agreed
with the Part I discussion during the February l992 review meeting.



- 16 -
PART III:  STATICAL XNFOR=ATION
Table1 lgelatgd Iank Loans
Yg&r of
LoI2  Title                 hQ.      Annroval   Furoose              Status
Cotton Areas Rural       1077-IVC    1975        Rural Development  Completed 1982
Development                                      in North and
Center savannah
Agriculture Extension   2765-IVC    1986         Improvement of      Under
extension over      inplementation
whole country
No follow-up project envisaged by the Bank. However, a second-phase project
was identified in 1988, prepared in 1989 by PAO-Investment Center, appraised
by IFAD in 1990 and approved in 1991. Implementation is likely to start in
1992.
Tablie 2 Proiect Timetable
Item                    Date PlanEed                  Patg AcLual
Identification                    -                          December 1976
Preparation                       -                          1977-78
Appraisal                                                    June 1978
Post-appraisal                    -                          October 1978
Negotiations                      -                          February 1980
Board Approval                    -                          March 1980
Loan signature                                               Noy 1980
Effectiveness                August 1980                     December 1980
Loan Closing                 September 30 1985               September 30 1987
Loan Completion              March 1985
The long delay between appraisal in June 1978 and Board approval in March 1980
is due to lengthy discussions within the Bank and between the Bask and
Government on the design, scope and size of the project.



- 17 -
T&1g 3s Lpoan Disbursements
Cumulative Eatimated and Actual DiabuTeement
(US$ '000)
Apprailal                                 Actual as
lost   aS              Actual           X Estimate
FY81                 400                     -                    0
FY82               1,560                  471                    30
FY83               3,040                1,738                    57
FY84               4,800                2,654                    55
FY85               7,800                3,027                    39
FY86               9,400                4,244                    45
FY87                                    6,474                    69
FY88                   -                8,811                    94
Dat of 9nd d;bwuAm: Apuil 26, 1988
0.



- 18 -
Table 4t Protect Costs and 7inancing
A. Proiect Costs
(in million of CFAF/US$ Equivalent)
Items                     -A2raisal   Estimate                Actual
(CIAE)     (USS)            (CPAP)    (US$)
Bottomlands                           100      0.478               210    0.587
Rehabilitation Kpoda                  181      0.864               385    1.075
Rainfed Agriculture                   302      1.439               394    1.101
Inputs                                202      0.961               N.A.    N.A.
Research                            1,200      5.714             1,683    4.701
Training                              102      0.483               195    0.545
Marketing and Cooperatives            276      1.314               465    0.299
Rural Roads                           577      2.747               910    2.542
Village Water                         268      1.276               202    0.564
Project Support                       729      3.473             1,497    4.182
Studies                               408      1.941                84    0.235
Monitoring and Evaluation              86      0.411               300    0.838
Animal Traction                         -           -              121    0.338
minm    mm           m~~~~~~gammmmin 
Total                         4,431     21.101             6,447   18.007
1 . ExcWh mat appal: USS1 - CFPA 210
cbage aw wei&d avaag scmW: USS1 - CFAP 358
2. Coda a m Cur aoy and wd doum hacud by M;aiy of Agdchw on wdA
B. Prolect Financint
Planned
fLoan/Credit Agreement)              Acta
(USS 000)  (2)               (US$ 000)   (2)
1. Civil works                         450                            585
2. Vehicles and equipment              600                            205
3. Local personnel                   2,600                          3,803
4. Operating expenses                2*100                          2,334
5. Land use studies                    600                            345
6. Other studies                       900                            823
7. Techtical Specialists               750                            716
8. Unallocated                         400                              _
Revolving fund,
Category 1, 3 and 4                   -    -                         _
Total                              9,400    44.5                  8,8$1   46.7
Co-financina Institutions
USAID/CE                             3,700    17.5                  3,578   19.0
PAC/CE                               1,400     7.0                    818    4.3
Government                           5,900    28.0                  5,664   30.0
BNDA/farmers                           7       3.0                   L.?.       -
Total                             21,100   100.0                 18,871  100.0
Toual fi6_n e_s tul casm due to eWusas fiom kew of *e cwoid by iaGy of Abwuss ona ;.



- 19 -
Table 5: Proiect Results
A. Dixect Benefits
Appraisal          PCR
Indicators                                        Estimate        Estimate (1987)
Rainfed crotss
Number of farmers                                 1,350            3,366
Area (ha)                                           N/A            6,413
Number of farmers using oxen                         90              276
Cotton area                                           0            2,032
Bottomlands:
Number of farmers                                   800            2,560
Area (ha)                                           N/A            2,592
Number of farmers using oxen                         135              96
Number of farmers using motorcultivators               -              10
KDoda irrigated scheme:
Number of farmers                                   240              577
Area (ha)                                           400              310
Research:
Number of sites in North East                         5                3
Number of sites outside North East                   11               10
Rural roadgs
Length (km)                                         275              382
Bridges and culverts       *                         40               41
Villane wells:
Number of vells                                       10              14
Number of boreholes                                  50               78
Buildings:
Housing, offices, stores                  Reached or exceeded objectives
B. Economic Imuact
Economic         Appraisal            PCR                          CIDT
Rate of Return     Estimate           Estimate                     Rstimte
Over  20 Yr O Cver 25 Yrs     Over 15 Yrs   Cver 20 Yrs
Bottomlands             242      - 11         - 061             N/A           N/A
Rpoda Irrigation        11S      - 15?         - 092             N/A           N/A
Rainfed dev. scheme    141       + 101         + 121             N/A           N/A
Overall Project         N/A      + 061         + 091             151           20%
Ptcq's ta oan iavmsm is bmonu.



- 20 -
C. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                            Impact of
Appraisal          Status               Study
Agro-Economic Survey   Blse-line            Completed          Provided basis
survey.                               for planning project
activities.
Mapping with land       Land use            Abandoned due
use identification      planning for        lack of LANDSAT
based on satellite      region.             imagery.
imaginary.                                  Replaced by
bottomland
study.
Identification and      Not foreseen.       Completed.         Served to plan
land use of                                                   bottomland
bottomlands.                                                   development
activities
Feasibility study       Mid-term review    Feasibility         Input to
for follow-up           and preparation    study completed.  proposals for
project.                of project.                            development of
ancho areas.
Studies on fooderop     Assist in           Studies on yam    Input into
production, marketing   development         and groundnut      development
and pricing.            plansing, policy   completed.          planning.
review.



- 21 -
Table 6s  Statu.s of Covenants
Covenant                                                    Rmark
Loan Aereemene
3.01(e)  Coavention with CIDT for execution of project.  Met
3.01(e) Employment of consultants for land-use,
follow-up project and fooderop studies.           Met
3.02     Employment of consultants for construction         Need for
of bridges and culverts.                           Consultants
waived
3.03(c) Prepa.ation of completion report within
six months of closing date.                       Met
3.05     Borrower to cause BUDA to lend to CIDT             Met, however
funds required for credit to participating         credit progrsm
farmers.                                           dropped due poor
credit recovery
3.06(a)  Borrower to prepare TOR for mid-term               Bank prepared TOR
evaluation.                                        and carried out review
3.06(b)  Feasibility study to be agreed with the Bank.   Met
3.06(c)  TOR for fooderop studies to be agreed with         Met
Bank.
3.07     CZ Grant to be provided by specified dates.        Met
3.08     Borrower to transfer adequate vorking capital
to CIDT by March 31 of each year.                  Not met
4.03     Borrower to reimburse CTDT for losses              CIDT did carry
incurred in maize and groundnut marketing.         out marketing
activities but
stopped soon
to avoid losses
Proiect Axreem.nt
3.03     CIDT to employ (a) Project M       Iaage?; (b) 2   Met
Zone Heads; (c) Senior Training Officer;
(d) Senior Research Officers; (e) Agricul-
turalist for Applied Research Unit; and (f)
Cooperatives Supervisor, satisfactory to Bank.
3.05     CIDT to take out adequate insurance.               Met
3.06     CIDT to ensure collection of paddy at              Nor, but CIDT
3.07     official farmsate price and maize                  stopped to
and groundaut at support price.                    avoid losses
4.01(a)  CIDT to maintain adequate records.                 Met
4.01(b)  C$DT to retain records.                            Met
4.01(c)  CIDT to have its accounts audited and              Met though not
submitted Bank, including opinion on               always on time
disbursements against SOB, within six
months of fiscal year end.



- 22 -
Table 7:  Use of Eank Resources
A. Staff nnuams
Stage of
ProLect Cycle                  Total
Through Appraisal                120.9
Appraisal through
Board Approval                    20.0
Supervision                       lA
Total                     256.3
B. Missiuns
Performance
Stage of      Month/  Dumber of   Days    Specialization    Rating         Type of
Proiect Cyclas   Year    Persons   in Field  R. resented 1/    Status  21  Problems 3/
Identification   12/76       N.A.       N.A.       N.A.               -              -
Preparation      04/77       N.A.       N.A.       N.A.               -              -
Appraisal        06178         5        N .A.  Al (1), A, E, T        -              -
post appraisal   10/78         3        N.A.  AB (2), A               -              -
Supervision 1   07/80          2          7   F, A                    2              F
2    02/81         2         9   P, A                    2               F
3    05/81         2         5   RN (2)                  -
4    08181         1         7   A                       2               M
5    11/81         4         7  A, P, E   (2)            2              MF
6    01/82         1         6   EN                      -
7    07/82         5        12   A (2), EN, L, F        Hid-term review
8    11/82         2         3   A, EN                   3              MF
9    06/83         3         10  A, EN, HE               3              MF
10    12/83         2         8  A, EN                    2              MF
11    06/84         3        10   A, EN                   2             HF
12   02/85          2         7   EN, L                   2               F
13    11/8S         1        10   EN                      2
14    10/86         2        10   , A                     2
15    04/87         2         7   F, A                    2
1 A = A okuuist, AE - Agcultura Eco0omist, E  Ecnomst, EN - EnOer,
L = Livestock SpecialiK F Finncial Analyst, T = Traince.
Zi 1  Problem free or minor problems, 2 = Moderate prblm. 3 - Major Probems.
11 F =Fmucial. M - Managerl, T = Tehnical, O-Othor.



T Ghdm7 hen hereeng;lbMthe                                                                        I                                                                               L T gtTo GesovMARCH 1979
the to vean,en of thie 58rfete of                                                                                                                I VOR Y CO           S
the eponss to which it is etVthed.
The dwnemfnsotne used end (th
ewlde,i sheen, e this map                                                                                     BatiC
do tmt  the pemn of fheen                                                                                                             NORTHEAST SAVANNAH
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Log                               bo                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA LIMITS
osnov                                                                                                  U   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAININrG CENTER
A   z- APPLIED RESEARCH AND
-   /   4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFIELD TRIAL SITES
,>'    ////  ~~~~~~~~  - / ~~~BOTTOMLAND DEVELOPMENT
~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~                                                 otm                       RAINFED AGRICULTURE- PILOT SCHEME
P    IRRIGATED KPODA SCHEME
assion                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUDANIAN ZONE
0/a,,   A                                                                                        F1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-a -Savusmaih with trees and shrubs  F
LJ       eslAh Panicum phmamitaideslm.=~--
SUB-SUDANIAN ZONE
ictndo                               --rWooded savannh & high forest     |
wiith Isoberlitiia doka3ipLLLL
GUINEAN ZONE
Scvannah with trees and shrubs
zt Kan                           N    AT   j  OfAL                                                                                    with Pt \Wtj4anicum phrogmitoides
NATIONAL PARK
-ALL- WEATHER GRZAVEL ROADS
DRY-SEASON GRAVEL ROADS
_ _DRY- SEASON EARTH ROADS
Toro Kink6n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RKTRACKS
Toro i                                                                                                    D2 n"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ui   ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUIARTERS
ADMINISTRATIVE LIMITS
4.                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0          J           10          6
KILOMETERS
bakala  ~~~~~rhaIa   Kaniegu6m                                                                     I, M4~~~~~~~~~~~.i ~~~  UPPER
AkAIa oDimb                                                      I C
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa
aI~    tania- Sokor                                                                                                                  -o                             ABIDIANk-



