Document of           FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2516-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IVORY COAST
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 15, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1                    =  CFAF 210
CFAF 1,000              =  US$4.762
CFAF 50                 =  FF 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)                =  2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)               =  2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)              =  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AGRIPAC      =  Societe pour la Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
BCEAO        =  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BE7PA        =  Bureau d'Etudes Techniques des Projets Agricoles
BNDA         =  Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CCCE         =  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CE           =  Conseil de l'Entente
CENAPEC      =  Centre National de Promotion des Entreprises Cooperatives
CIDT            Compagrie Ivoirienne de Developpement des Textiles
COCOPRAGEL  =  Cooperative de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
et d'Elevage
CRCPV        =  Comite de Reflexion et de Concertation sur les Problemes
Vivriers
CSSPPA       =  Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des
Produits Agricoles
DCH          =  Direction Centrale de l'Hydraulique (MPW)
FAC          =  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FED          =  Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FOREXI       =  Societe d'Etat pour la Realisation de Forages en Cote
d'Ivoire
GDP          =  Gross Domestic Product
GVC          =  Groupement a Vocation Cooperative (Village Group)
IDESSA      =  Institut des Savanes, Bouake
MINAGRI      =  Ministry of Agriculture
MPW          =  Ministry of Public Works, Transport, Construction
and Urban Development
OCPA         =  Office de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
ONPR         =  Office National pour la Promotion Rurale
RWD          =  Rural Works Department (CIDT)
SATMACI      =  Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation
Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire
SDR          =  Societe Regionale de Developpement Rural
SODI         =  Societe de Developpement
SODECI       =  Societe de Distribution des Eaux en Cote d'Ivoire
SQDEPALM    =  Societe pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation du Palmier
SdDERIZ      =  Societe de Developpement de la Riziculture
UNIVIBO      =  Union des Vivriers de Bondoukou
USAID        =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government January 1 to December 31
CIDT         October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ............           ....................................       I
A. General .....  1
B.    The Rural Sector in the Economy ......................    1
C.   Rural Development Policy .............................                 2
D.    Institutions  .........................................               3
E.   Bank Participation in the Agricultural Sector .... ....    5
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ..........................................    6
A.    Physical Environment  .................................               6
B.    Agricultural Activities  ..............................               7
C.    Rural Institutions ...................................                7
D.    Previous and Ongoing Development Projects in the Area                 8
III.    THE PROJECT  ...............................................                9
A.   Project Background ...................................    9
B.    General Objectives  ...................................   10
C.    Summary Project Description ..........................   10
D.   Detailed Features  ....................................   12
Bottomland Development ..........................   12
Rehabilitation of the Kpoda Irrigation Scheme ...    13
Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Scheme ....             ............   14
Training ........................................   15
Applied Research and Field Trials ....            ...........   16
Crop Marketing and Cooperative Development ......   18
Rural Tracks ....................................    19
Village Water Supply ............................   21
Monitoring and Evaluation .......................   22
Studies and Surveys .............................   23
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ....................................   25
A.    The Executing Agency .................................   25
B.    Project Organization .................................   25
C.    Staffing .............................................    26
D.    Farm Inputs Distribution and Credit Terms ....             ........   27
E.    Monitoring and Evaluation ............................   28
F.    MINAGRI Studies and Project Preparation ....              ..........   29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. J. Gamba, E. Pagacz, Ch. Redfern (Bank), J. Coulomb (consultant)
and A. Bouchitte (FAC trainee) which visited the Ivory Coast in June
1978; and of a post-appraisal mission in October 1978, comprising Messrs.
J. Gamba, E. Pagacz (Bank) and G. Reusche (USAID/CE).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table  of  Contents  (Continued)                                                                     Page No.
V.     COST  ESTIMATES  AND  FINANCIAL  ARRANGEMENTS  .....                      ............    29
A.     Cost  Estimates  .......................................                           29
B.    Financing Plan .......................................    30
C.  Procurement . ..........................................  34
D.     Disbursement  .           ........................................                 35
E.     Accounts,  Audit  and Reporting  Requirements  ....                     .......    36
VI.     AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION,  MARKETING  AND  PRICES  ....                       .........    37
A.     Project  Production  and Constraints  .....                      ..............    37
B.     Crop  Production  and Marketing  in  the  Project  Area  ....    38
C.     Marketing  Constraints  and  Proposed  Remedies  ....                     ......    40
D.     Marketing  and Prices  .................................    41
E.     Subsidies  for  Maize  and Groundnut  Marketing  ....                     ......    43
VII.      BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS  .........................    44
A.     Overall Impact           ...................          ....................    44
B.    Project  Benefits  and  their Distribution  ......                      ........    45
C.     Farmers'  Benefits                 ....................................            45
D.    Economic Analysis  .................                     ...................    46
E.    Social  Analysis  of  Project  Benefits  ........                     ..........    49
F.    Fiscal  Impact  and Cost  Recovery  ........ ..                    ............    49
G.     Project  Risks          ................... .....................                  51
VIII.      ASSURANCES,  CONDITIONS  AND  RECOMMENDATION  .....                        ............    52



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table A.  Estimated Contingencies and Price Increases .. ......... 29
B.  Project Cost Summary    ................ .................  31
C.  Proposed Financing Plan .............. ................  32
D.  Projected Project Production ............... ...........  37
E. Foodcrop Production and Marketing Estimates; Country
and North-East .........    .............................   38
F.  Increased Marketable Production due to Project .......  39
G. Farm Budget Analysis    ................ .................  46
H.  Estimated ERR and NPV on Production Components .......  49
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Tables
Table No. 1.  Annual Project Costs ............. ..............  55
2.  Annual Financing Plan ............ ..............  56
3.  Incremental Farm Inputs and Equipment -
Revolving Credit Fund ............ ..............  57
4.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..........      58
2.  List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.  Working Papers .................................  59
2.  Reports on the Project ........ .................   59
CHART
CIDT Organigram (197B) IBRD 20208
MAPS
IBRD 13826 The Project Area
IBRD 14248 Applied Research and Field Trials Sites






IVORY COAST
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
1.01      The Ivory Coast has an area of 322,500 km .  The southern half of
the country is covered by tropical rain forest; this extends up to 200 km
inland before giving way to savannah forest and then, as rainfall diminishes,
to open savannah which covers the northern part of the country.
1.02      The population, currently estimated at about 7.3 million, has been
growing over the past decade at over 4°o per annum.  About 5 million (68%o)
still live in rural areas but there is a tendency to move towards the towns
and seek urban employment.  About 22%o of the population are immigrants from
neighbouring Sahelian countries, mainly Mali and Upper Volta.
1.03      The country's economic performance has been good.  Through the
1960s GDP grew at 8.3%G per annum.  This rate slowed to 5.06°o per annum between
1970 and 1975, due partly to the worldwide recession and partly to internal
factors including adverse weather conditions which affected production of
major agricultural commodities, particularly cocoa and coffee. By 1977,
the average per capita GDP had, nevertheless, reached US$710, one of the
highest in Africa. The absolute poverty income level is estimated at US$96
per capita; about 30%o of the rural population have an income below this
level.
B.   The Rural Sector in the Economy
1.04      Economic growth in the Ivory Coast has been based on the agricul-
tural and forestry sub-sectors, which account for about 50% of the country's
domestic product, provide a livelihood to 70%° of the population, and will
continue to be important factors in the economic development of the country
which does not have large mineral resources. Abundant land, immigrant labor
supply and generally favorable world markets for its products have assured
rapid economic growth. The main agricultural products are (1978 production
estimates): cocoa 300,000 t; coffee 200,000 t; seed cotton 100,000 t;
bananas (exports) 140,000 t; palm oil (f.f.b.) 1.0 million t; and timber
5.0 million m3. The estimated value of agricultural production in 1976
was US$2,050 million, of which industrial crops accounted for about US$1,500
million, food crops US$400 million, and livestock US$150 million. The rather
diversified structure of agriculture accounts for a relatively steady growth
of the economy, which has facilitated the launching of important infrastruc-
ture and industrial investments programs. From 1974 through 1976 annual
exports averaged US$1,400 million of which three main commodities -- coffee
(29%) , cocoa (25%o) and timber (20%o) -- accounted for 74°o.  Another 12%o of GDP
is produced by the expanding industrial sector.



-2-
C. Rural Development Policy
1.05      Government's primary goal has been, until recently, to promote
rapid economic growth. The focus of this goal during the 1960s and early
1970s was prnduction of agricultural export crops and timber exploitation,
although a policy of fiscal and other incentives to private investment also
encouraged industrial growth. While adhering to this goal, the growth objec-
tive was conditioned by three considerations. First, diversification was
required to increase the stability of export earnings and of the economy.
Thus, in addition to coffee and cocoa, new export crops, such as oil palm and
rubber, were promoted. Second, it was recognized that growth had been uneven
and that regional income disparities which were detrimental to national unity,
should be reduced. Third, in the long run, reliance on foreign factors of
production should be reduced and manpower, management and capital gradually
Ivorianized.
1.06      With the generally rapid growth of the economy (para 1.03) which has
provided a substantial basis upon which to generate domestic savings and
investment and further growth, Government has become increasingly concerned
with improving the distribution of income. Most profitable activities
are concentrated in the south, thus creating large regional disparities in
per capita income (which in 1977 was US$710 for the country as a whole but
much lower in rural areas:  US$315 in the forest zone and only US$165 in the
savannah regions). These income disparities account in part for rural-urban
migration: over the next decade, population is projected to grow in the towns
at around 7.5%o per annum, :in the forest zone at about 4%o, and to decline by
about 0.5%o in the savannah,  Without a major slow-down in the rate of urbaniza-
tion it is projected that by 1985 about 48°o (4.6 million) of the Ivorian
population will be living in towns.
1.07      Growing urbanization and the increasing market demand for food have
therefore drawn Government's attention more towards the need for integrated
rural development, meaning development of family farms as a whole, rather than
just concentrating on production of export crops. New programs have been
designed to include food crops in areas where export crops are produced. Over
the past few years imports of basic foodstuffs have declined from 130 kg to
105 kg per head of the population, indicating that farmers and traders are
already responding to the growth in demand. The new approach allows for
expanding agriculture in areas that had been neglected under the export crop
approach and is expected to alleviate rural poverty and reduce regional income
disparities, thereby offering inducement to young Ivorians to stay in agricul-
ture and slowing the urban drift.
1.08      Government's policy now gives special emphasis both to projects in
less developed areas adopting delivery systems to reach the smallholder
growing annual crops, and to the development of smallholder components in
plantation crop projects such as oil palm and rubber. The Cotton Areas Rural
Development Project (Loan 1077-IVC) and the proposed project in the North-East
Savannah Region, subject of this report, are examples of the first method,
while the Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project (Loan 1575-IVC) and the SAPH
Rubber Project (Loan 1633-]:VC) are example of the second.



- 3 -
1.09      Consistent with the objective of reducing income disparities, the
savannah regions will be given more importance in forthcoming development
efforts. These should include the promotion of settled agriculture, the
diversification of cash crops, the continuous use of arable land through
appropriate rotations with gradual introduction of mixed farming, the pro-
vision of improved services --extension, credit, transport, storage and
marketing-- and a strengthened applied research program to design and test
improved farming systems, including animal and mechanical traction. However
improved production techniques have still to be tested, particularly in
adapting them to the local environment, and the ability of local institutions
to deliver better extension, credit and marketing services to small farmers
needs to be strengthened. It will therefore take some time for Government
policies, agricultural institutions and the research base to respond to the
needs of a more balanced rural development policy.
D. Institutions
1.10      Overall development planning is in the hands of the Ministry of
Planning while agricultural development programs are the responsibility of
the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, and Waters and Forestry. Agricul-
tural research, however, is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Scien-
tific Research and carried out by specialised agencies, which are assisted
by bilateral French aid. Execution of agricultural programs was previously
entrusted to Societes de Developpement (SODEs), autonomous development agencies
set up by the Government to promote one or more specific crops. However, in
October 1977, Government decided on a comprehensive reorganization of the
agricultural sector which included a transfer of responsibility from crop-
oriented institutions to three multipurpose regional development agencies,
Societes Regionales de Developpement Rural (SDR), each responsible for a broad
ecological zone. Under this plan, the cotton development agency CIDT, the
coffee and cocoa agency SATMACI and part of SODEPALM, responsible for oilpalm
and coconut, are to be transformed, respectively, into SDR for the savannah,
the middle belt and the coastal belt of Ivory Coast. This approach is basically
sound and will eventually facilitate the execution of integrated rural develop-
ment projects. Progress in achieving the planned reorganization, however, has
so far been slow and to date the transformation of CIDT into SDR-North has not
yet been fully achieved.
1.11      CIDT (Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Textiles)
was established in 1974 as a joint company owned 55%G by the Government and
45%' by the French CFDT.  Its mandate was to carry on, with a progressive
nationalization of management, the cotton development program initiated in
1964 by CFDT and to take responsibility for the integrated development of the
cotton-growing areas. Its area of influence now embraces more than one-half
of country's surface and one-half of its population (most of the North, West,
Center and Center-West Regions), even though cotton is not grown throughout
this area of some 150,000 km2 and 3 million inhabitants. Under the new
Government policy, CIDT has in effect, though not in name, been gradually



- 4 -
transformed into a SDR.  In 1978, it expanded its field staff, taking on about
800 rice workers formerly employed in the North by SODERIZ (the farmer rice
development agency dissolved in October 1977 in connection with the reorganiza-
tion of the agricultural sector, para 1.10) and some regional staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture. CIDT now employs a total of about 2,800 people, of
whom about 1,800 are extension workers and the rest are operatcrs in the
ginneries and transport fleet. Both CFDT and its successor, L.DT, have
been outstandingly successful in developing cotton as a major cash crop in the
savannah zones. Under the former, production increased from less than 1,000 t
in 1962/63 to over 58,000 t in 1973/74, and under the latter has risen further
to approximately 115,000 t of seed cotton in 1978/79. Cotton has there-
fore become the principal cash crop for about 90,000 savannah farmers, each
earning in 1978 an average net income from the crop of CFAF 90,000 (US$410).
Considerable progress has been made in introducing ox-drawn cultivation and
transport, a new technology for most farmers, and in promoting the integration
of cotton and foodcrops within a rotational system, thus allowing foodcrops to
benefit from the residual effects of fertilizers applied to cotton. Progress
in obtaining farmers' acceptance of improved growing methods for foodcrops
has, however, been less than expected, due partly to inadequate applied
research and partly to the absence of any organized marketing for crops such
as maize and groundnuts.
1.12      CIDT is partly financed from its profits on cotton production and
ginning activities, which are basically self-supporting, and partly through
the Government's investment budget which finances, along with external donors,
the cost of development programs. CIDT's management flexibility has benefitted
from the degree of financial autonomy which it has hitherto enjoyed. In
general, CIDT's financial structure has been adequate to meet its respon-
sibilities and financial control within the organization is sound. The shape
of CIDT's management structure required to face up to its greatly expanded
rural development role in the 1980's is currently being studied by the Ivorian
Government.
1.13      The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (CSSPPA), the Government's price stabilization fund, controls the
marketing of cotton, cocoa, coffee, palm oil and copra and guarantees producer
and exporter prices. Accumulated surpluses of such operations are used to
build reserves for future stabilization activities, for export promotion
activities, for investment in local crop processing facilities and for finan-
cing part of the Government's Investment Budget. However, CSSPPA does not
presently intervene in the marketing of any of the crops which concern the
proposed project.
1.14      Agricultural research is undertaken by several French institutes,
including IRAT for food crops, IRCT for cotton and IEMVT/CRZ for livestock,
under bilateral agreements (see list of abbreviations for full names).
Programs and budgets are reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Scientific
Research and costs are shared equally by the two countries. However, mainly
due to a lack of adequate financial support, some research programs have been
only partially implemented and others never started. Government is now giving



-5-
emphasis to project-oriented research to be undertaken by the SDR through the
existing research organizations, with technical support and proper coordination
to be ensured by the Ministry of Scientific Research. Research activities of
IRAT, IRCT and CRZ concerning the savannah regions are coordinated under the
aegis of the newly-formed IDESSA (Institut des Savanes), based at Bouake.
1.15      The national farm credit agency, Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Agricole (BNDA), has been active so far mainly in extending short-term
credit, using a line of rediscount with the central bank (BCEA0). For
agricultural lending activities it has operated principally through the SODEs
which administer and supervise the credit in their respective subsectors. As
finance for its lending operations, BNDA has also used its equity and inter-
national funds such as the French CCCE's participation in the Grand-Bereby
rubber project and IBRD funds under the two cocoa projects. BNDA has recently
started to provide credit for marketing operations through village groups,
Groupements a Vocation Cooperative (GVC). A far-reaching reform of BNDA
management and operations is expected with a view to bringing it closer to
farmers, streamlining its lending procedures and depending less on the SODEs
for credit supervision.
E. Bank Participation in the Agricultural Sector
1.16      Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of Government's
major policy objectives --crop diversification and promotion of exports-- and
have followed their evolution towards giving more emphasis to smallholder
production, balanced regional development, and integrated rural development.
Previous loans have been as follows: three loans in 1969, totalling US$17.1
million for oil palm and coconut development (Loans 611, 612 and 613-IVC);
a loan of US$5.3 million in 1970, for smallholder cocoa production (Loan 686-
IVC); two loans totalling US$7.0 million in 1971 for oil palm and coconut
(Loans 759 and 760-IVC); a loan of US$8.4 million in 1973 for a rubber planta-
tion project (Loan 938-IVC); a loan of US$2.6 million in 1974 for oil palm
smallholder and estate development (Loan 1036-IVC); a loan of US$20.0 million
for a second cocoa project in 1974 (Loan 1069-IVC); a loan of US$31.0 million
for the Cotton Areas Rural Development project in 1975 (Loan 1077-IVC); a loan
of US$20.0 million in 1977 for oil palm and coconut smallholder and estate
development (Loan 1382-IVC); a loan of US$20.0 million in 1978 for continuation
of the first rubber project (Loan 1575-IVC); and a loan of US$7.6 million in
1978 for smallholder and estate rubber development (Loan 1633-IVC). Finally,
in 1979, a loan of US$20 million was approved (Loan 1735-IVC) to assist the
Government's long-term reforestation program. The proposed North-East Savannah
Rural Development Project would represent the fifteenth Bank operation in
agriculture.



-6-
I]. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Environment
2.01      Location.  The project area covers about 22,500 km , lying along the
northeast border with Ghana and Upper Volta and adjacent to the Komoe National
Park (Map IBRD 13826). It includes all of "Bouna Department", plus two sub-
prefectures of the Department of Bondoukou -- Bondoukou and Sandegue. It
falls into two ecologically disinct zones, north and south, with the dividing
line following approximately the southern boundary of Komoe National Park.
2.02      Climate.  The area lies between the 1,000 and 1,200 mm isohyets,
in the dryest part of the country. The climate is Soudanian in the north,
with a single rainy season of five months, between May and October, and
becomes Guinean in the south, with an erratic bimodal rainfall from March
to October. The low average rainfall is aggravated by a very wide variation
from year to year, ranging between extremes of about 670 mm to 1,950 mm.
The irregular rainfall distribution means that farmers are often obliged to
stagger or delay their planting in order to ensure an adequate germination.
2.03      Topography, Soils and Vegetation.  Apart from some elevations not
exceeding 800 m, the terrain is mostly level with slopes rarely exceeding
10%O, and the average altitude is about 350 m above sea level. Soils are
very varied, of ferralitic and ferruginous types, and, with the exception of
some bottomlands where there are hydromorphic clays, are light and coarse-
textured with a low water retention capacity. The predominant vegetation
is savannah with some scattered small trees.
2.04      Communications.  The area has no rail or commercial air links
and all freight has to be transported by road from Abidjan (between 450 and
600 km). The total road network in the area is about 3,450 km including 300
km of main roads, none of them bituminized.  Not all parts of the area are
accessible throughout the yiear.
2.05      Population.  The population is estimated at 240,000 or 3.3% of t4e
country's total population.  The average population density is about 1l/km
ranging between only 2 in tte south of Bouna and 16 in the Doropo area, and
on occasion exceeding 20/km- locally.  About 90%O of the population is rural,
the rest live in Bouna, Bondoukou, Tehini and Nassian townships. There are
some 30,000 farm families practising a mainly shifting pattern of cultivation,
belonging to the following rnain tribes: the Lobi, who live in scattered
compounds (soukhala) along with their herds in the north, and the Koulango who
have settled in grouped vil:Lages in the south. In addition, the Dioula people
are mainly engaged in small scale commerce in the towns. A description of the
Lobi people, their customs, social organization and willingness to change, is
given in the Project File (Working Paper 1.11).



- 7 -
B. Agricultural Activities
2.06      Agriculture is carried out entirely by smaliholders, who practise
shifting cultivation with some permanently cultivated plots around their
compounds. Principal crops are yam, sorghum, millet, maize and rice. Ground-
nuts and cassava are also grown. Rice is a relatively new crop and is mainly
grown in bottomiands. Traditional farming is characterized by mixed cropping,
using local non-improved varieties, rudimentary manual cultivation, infrequent
weeding and low plant densities. Given the resources traditionally available,
this system was relatively efficient; however, land is no longer freely
available for this extensive type of farming. Some tree crops are also
harvested --mango, sheanut and cashew-- providing some supplementary nutrition
or income. Yams are by far the most important cash crop in the area as the
"Bouna yam" is particularly prized on the markets of Abidjan and Bouake.
2.07      The average farm size is 3.2 ha in the north and 2.0 ha in the south,
with an average household of 6.9 and 7.2 persons, respectively, according to
a 1975 Government survey. Current average per capita rural income, including
livestock and subsistence production, is estimated at only US$65, 30%' below the
estimated absolute poverty income level for the country as a whole (para 1.03).
2.08      Total cattle population is estimated at about 70,000 head with a
heavy concentration (70%') northwest of Bouna. Cattle are mostly of the small
West Africa Southern breed, locally called Baoule. Selected Baoule have else-
where been used as draft animals. So far however, animal traction has been
introduced only with the heavier N'Dama oxen, which are scarce. Traditionally,
animal husbandry is in the hands of the Lobi. Sheep and goats (270,000 head)
and poultry (about 1 million) are kept around the villages for family consump-
tion. The marketed off-take from these herds and flocks is presently very
low. Efforts to improve herd management and productivity are being made under
an ongoing livestock project (para 2.15).
C. Rural Institutions
2.09      Extension Services.  The area has a regional office of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture in Bondoukou. It is poorly staffed and following the
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture's extension functions, it will
effectively be absorbed into CIDT, the SDR for the savannah. One exception
would be the agricultural statistics office which would continue to report
directly to the Ministry. Until end-1977, advice on rice growing was provided
by SODERIZ. Most of the 22 rice extension agents have been taken over by CIDT
but their work has suffered from the lack of continuity or effective supervi-
sion. Extension services for livestock are the responsibility of the national
animal production agency SODEPRA, which is the executing agency for the
Northern Livestock Project cofinanced by a number of European donors (para 2.14).
2.10      Agricultural Research.  In the past practically no applied research
or field trials were undertaken in the area. Although some work has been
undertaken at Ondefidouo in the Kolodio-Bineda settlement area (para 2.14) by



- 8 -
Department of Agriculture with the support of the Institut des Savanes (IDESSA)
(para 1.14), its progress has been hampered by lack of funds and little of
substance has been achieved.
2.11      Cooperatives.  Technical assistance for the establishment of co-
operatives has been provided by the Centre National de PromotKv2 des Entre-
prises Cooperatives 'CENAPEV), now under the Office National p-ur la Promotion
Rurale (ONPR) of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Cooperative de Commerciali-
sation des Produits Agricoles et d'Elevage (COCOPRAGEL) in Bouna covers about
20 villages with one storage center for yams and two herdsmen groups for
cattle fattening. The Union des Vivriers de Bondoukou (UNIVIBO) comprises 19
cooperative village groups (GVC), its main function being the marketing of
yams.  In addition, there are 12 other autonomous GVC involved in yam marketing.
2.12      Marketinq_ Facilities.  Organized marketing channels exist only for
paddy, run by CIDT, and partially for yams by the Societe pour la Commerciali-
sation des Produits Agricoles (AGRIPAC) through UNIVIBO in Bondoukou and
COCOPRAGEL in Bouna. Marketing of food crops by private traders is fairly
limited. The lack of extension services, credit or organized marketing for
crops like groundnuts, cereals and cassava, combined with frequent transport
difficulties, deprives farmers of adequate incentives or opportunities to
increase and diversify their production. Under the proposed project, CIDT
would be operating as a licensed buying agent for paddy for the newly-formed
Office de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles (OCPA), which is not yet
fully functional (para 6.09).
D. Previous and Onqoing Development Projects in the Area
2.13      Despite attempts made during the 1960s, and later in connection with
the Kolodio-Bineda settlement scheme (para 2.13), cotton has not been intro-
duced into the North-East and only since mid-1978 has CIDT assumed responsi-
bility for agricultural development in the project area. Reasons for the
failure of cotton in the area were the scattered and frequently shifting
distribution of the population, language difficulties, non-acceptance of
non-Lobi speaking extension agents, and problems of excessive insect attack
on the cotton crop.
2.14      Rural Settlement in the Kolodio-Bineda Zone.  Located in a virtually
empty area of 70,000 ha between the Kolodio and Bineda rivers south of Bouna,
this project aimed at settling 10,000 Lobi people in five years, with accom-
panying measures such as advice to improve traditional agriculture and herd
management, and basic infrastructure facilities. Settlers were to come mainly
from the Verde zone north of Bouna, which has a dense Lobi population origi-
nating from lJpper Volta. The project started in 1973 with financing provided
by FAC and the Government. However, due to subsequent lack of funds and
extension personnel, only about 300 ha have been partly improved and about
3,000 people settled. Ninety km of poorly maintained access roads and six
wells equipped with pumps, one school and a simple dispensary have been
constructed. Main project activities are concentrated at Ondefidouo and



-9-
carried out by three French volunteers and three extension agents. One
additional extension agent provides advice for bottomland rice improvement.
In 1974/75, the COCOPRAGEL marketed 950 t of yams, 30 t of rice, 15 t of
maize, and 10 t of millet and sorghum from the project. Although on a limited
scale, this experiment indicated the responsiveness of Lobi farmers to
technical advice and incentives.
2.15      Livestock Project in the North.  This project, being implemented
by the Societe pour le Developpement de la Production Animale (SODEPRA) over
a five-year period 1975-79, has as its main objective the improvement of
traditional cattle raising in the northern part of the Ivory Coast, including
the North-East. To this end, herdsmen are provided with technical support
to introduce technical improvements such as vaccination and tick-spraying
campaigns, supplementary feeding and mineral supplements, better grazing
practices and construction of cattle kraals. Up to mid-1978, 900 villages had
been involved in the project, covering about 170,000 head of cattle. The
project is financed by Government and external co-donors (France, Federal
Republic of Germany and Belgium). A follow-up phase, including the pursuit of
activities in the North-East, is expected to start in 1980.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background
3.01      The Government of the Ivory Coast requested the Bank and the
USAID/FAC-financed common fund of the Conseil de l'Entente (CE) to help
finance a rural development project in the country's northeastern savannah
region. This is one of the poorest areas of the country flanking the borders
of Ghana and Upper Volta, so far almost untouched by government efforts. The
proposed project is conceived as a first phase of an integrated rural develop-
ment program aimed at providing a sound basis for sustaining and improving the
livelihood of the rural population of this impoverished region. The project
is in line with the Government's policy of encouraging small farming and
reducing regional rural incomes disparities (para 1.04).
3.02      In early 1975, the Ministry of Agriculture hired consultants to
prepare the preliminary outline of a rural development project, suitable for
external financing. Following RMWA identification missions in 1976 and 1977,
Government and the Bank agreed on the project's concept and scope. Project
preparation was then carried out, under RMWA monitoring, by the newly created
Bureau d'Etudes Techniques des Projets Agricoles (BETPA) of the Ministry of
Agriculture. The project was appraised in June 1978 by a Bank mission
comprising Messrs. J. Gamba, E. Pagacz, Ch. Redfern (Bank), J. Coulomb (con-
sultant) and A. Bouchitte (FAC trainee). A follow-up mission -- with the
participation of the CE -- took place in October 1978.



- 10 -
E. General Objectives
3.03      Previous development efforts and ongoing research do not provide the
basis for a large-scale agricultural development project. A pilot-character
project with a heavy applied research emphasis is called for at this stage.
The three agricultural production sub-projects proposed combine the exploita-
tion of presently-available techniques for growing rice and dryland crops
(bottomland and Kpoda scheme components) and the testing, on an extended
pilot basis, of stabilized and more profitable farming systems, including the
introduction of ox-drawn cultivation and transport.   The adaptive research
and field trials programs in food crops contemplated under the project are
expected to result in the development of techniques that could subsequently be
applied to the entire north-east and even to much of the rest of the savannah
region, ultimately benefiting more than 100,000 farm families. The pilot
program for rainfed crops and the bottomland development, if successful, would
allow for the future expansion of crops with considerable potential for
raising the cash income of many small farmers.  The above activities would
also provide opportunities to test and develop approaches to extension
staff training, to promote farmers' participation, and to improve existing
cooperative and marketing systems.  All of these aspects, once properly
developed and proven, would be essential in a follow-up full-scale project.
The complementary provision of storage facilities, rural tracks and village
water supply would improve the area's basic infrastructure and the well-being
of the people living in the area. Provisions for project management and for
monitoring of project activities would strengthen the institutional base.
In essence, the project would lay the basis for future improvements in agri-
cultural production and, consequently, living standards in this disadvantaged
region of the Ivory Coast. The project would also assist Government agricul-
tural planning at national level, through provision of consultants for studies
and policy analysis in the field of foodcrop production and for the preparation
of agricultural development projects suitable for financing by the Bank or
other donors.
C. Summary Project Description
3.04      The project would be implemented over five years.  Due to the lack
of existing development structures in the area, the first year would be
devoted entirely to carrying out a baseline agro-economic survey, establishing
three field trials sites, recruitment and initial training of field staff,
construction of houses and offices and procurement of vehicles. Extension and
development activities in the field would start at the beginning of PY2. The
proposed project would cons:ist of:
(a) Establishing a small project management unit in the area, under
CIDT.
(b) Agricultural production:
(i) provision of extension, credit and marketing services to
about 800 farmers for cultivation of bottomland rice and
other foodcrops, and training about 135 of these farmers
in the use of draft oxen for ploughing and transport;



- 11 -
(ii)  rehabilitation of a small irrigation scheme at Kpoda and
provision of extension, credit and marketing services for
rice and non-irrigated crops to about 240 farmers;
(iii)  a pilot demonstration and extension component aimed at
introducing improved seed varieties and cultivation practices
among about 1,350 farmers, carried out in close association
with applied research, and training about 90 farmers in the
use of draft oxen.
(c) Applied research and field trials:
(i)  staffing and equipping five foodcrop experimentation
sites in different ecological zones in the Northeast, and
organizing test and demonstration plots on farms; and
(ii)  reorgs-izing and improving the coordination of applied
research activities on foodcrops and cotton in the
Northern and Central Savannah regions, to be carried
out on eight sites with provision of field personnel and
equipment.
(d)  Extension staff training through initial courses in basic agri-
culture, annual refresher courses, and ad hoc workshops; and
construction of a residential training center with a capacity
for about 20 trainees.
(e) Cooperatives and marketing:
(i)  establishing about 50 village pre-cooperative groups (GVC),
attached to existing cooperative unions;
(ii) training [VC staff in cooperative management and account-
ing;
(iii) constructing 6 storage and input distribution centers at
important villages; and
(iv) setting up and equipping two CIDT crop purchasing teams.
(f)  Rehabilitation and maintenance, and construction of about 275
km of feeder roads and access tracks.
(g)  Construction of about 10 wells and 50 boreholes to improve village
water supply.
(h)  Monitoring and evaluation of project results by the existing CIDT
Field Trials and Monitoring Unit (FTMU).



- 12 -
(i)  Provision of consultants to carry out an agro-economic survey, a
mid-term evaluation of the project and a feasibility study of a
possible follow-up project.
(j)  A land use survey of the savannah region based on interpretation of
satellite photo-imagery; and
(k)  Studies and project preparation for MINAGRI:
(i) studies and policy analysis in the production and marketing
of foodcrops; and
(ii) project preparation in the agriculture sector.
D. Detailed Features
Bottomland Development
3.05      This component would be carried out in the northern part of the
project area (Bouna Department) where, from about 1974 to 1977, SODERIZ
had an extension program for the development of bottomland (bas-fonds) rice
in the area. About 1,000 farmers had been following the recommended methods
of planting in line, using fertilizers and improved seed varieties and forming
farmers groups (GVC) for credit and marketing. Although rice is not a
traditional crop for the Lobi people, paddy production increased from less
than 1,000 to before 1972 to a peak of 4,400 t in 1975 (Project File).
However, as a result of the breakdown of SODERIZ in 1976-77, inputs, marketing
and extension services were severely disrupted during three seasons and
production fell back to only about 2,000 tons in 1978. However, results
achieved by SODERIZ in the area indicate that yields of rice grown in bas-
fonds can be increased from about 0.9 t/ha to about 2.2 t/ha by using ferti-
lizer with improved manual farming techniques; and to 2.5 t/ha if oxen are
used for soil preparation, along with a slightly heavier rate of fertilizer
application (Working Paper 1.4).
3.06      The bottomland development component would therefore consist of:
(i) an intensive resumption by CIDT of the previous SODERIZ extension activi-
ties; and (ii) provision of extension, credit and marketing services for the
other crops grown by rice farmers, initially for maize and groundnuts and
later on for millet, sorghum and yams, depending on applied research results.
It is estimated that an average farm family of about 7 persons would increase
the area cultivated by hand in rice from 0.2 ha to 1 ha, if inputs provision,
marketing and extension are properly organized. Farmers using oxen for
cultivation could grow up to 2 ha of rice.
3.07      Over a four year development phase this component would be expected
to reach 800 rice farmers and to introduce 135 of them to ox-drawn methods
(initially for transport, then for ploughing). Bottomlands offer the best
opportunity for introducing ox-drawn cultivation because land clearing
and des'-umping are not necessary and because manual cultivation is harder
than on the lighter upland soils. By PY5, incremental production is expected
to be 1,900 t of paddy, 300 t of yams, 60 t of groundnuts, 250 t of maize



- 13 -
and 80 t of sorghum and millet; and by PYll (full development) 2,600 t of
paddy, 900 t of yams, 200 t of groundnuts, 650 t of maize and 275 t of sorghum
and millet. Farm budget indicators are at Table G (page 45) and farmer's
financial benefits are described in Chapter VII. Detailed farm budgets are
included in the Project File (Working Paper 1.4).
3.08      Under the supervision of the project manager this component would
be implemented by a zone head, two agricultural assistants and 10 extension
agents. (The zone head would also implement the rainfed agriculture pilot
scheme in the northern part of the project area) (para 3.16).
3.09      Direct project costs for this component (excluding project manage-
ment overheads and costs of constructing access roads) are estimated at CFAF
73 million, without contingencies, or US$350,000. More detailed technical
specifications, costings and yield estimates are in the Project File (Working
Paper 1.1).
3.10      For this as well as for the two other production components (Kpoda
Irrigation Scheme and Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Scheme) marketing arrangements
would be as follows: (i) paddy would be marketed by CIDT, acting as buying
agent for OCPA (para 6.09); and (ii) increased production of other crops would
be marketed either through the existing cooperatives (yams, see para 2.11),
through CIDT buying teams for maize and groundnuts (para 3.30 and 6.11-12) or
else through local channels (mainly cassava, sorghum and millet). Crop
marketing arrangements are more fully described in Chapter VI.
Rehabilitation of the Kpoda Irrigation Scheme
3.11      This component consists of the rehabilitation of an existing small
irrigation system 8 km northwest of Bondoukou and the provision of extension
services to participating farmers. An earth dam was constructed in 1975
across a tributary of the Maya river but there are heavy water losses from the
improperly built canals. At present only 190 ha per year of rice are grown:
20 rice growers with an average of 2 ha each, growing two crops per year, and
220 smaller farmers with an average parcel of 0.5 ha, growing only one rice
crop per year. Rehabilitation works, for which necessary studies have been
carried out by the Rural Works Department of CIDT, would consist essentially
of raising the level of the main off-takes, rectifying sections of the main
and secondary canals and drains and rehabilitating almost all the tertiary
system (details in Project File, Working Paper 1.2).
3.12      The repair of the canals and provision of a small extension and
water management unit at the site would allow the full 400 ha per year to be
cultivated. It is expected that this would be done by 80 specialized rice
growers using power tillers to cultivate 2 ha each of double-cropped rice
(total 320 ha/year); and by 160 smaller farmers growing 0.5 ha during the
second rainy season only (80 ha/year). Paddy yields would be expected to
increase from 2.5 t/ha at present to 3.5 t/ha in improved manual cultivation
and to 4.0 t/ha using power tillers, by use of new seed each year, recommended



- 14 -
fertilizer and pesticide applications and improved water availability and
control. At present fertilizer for irrigated rice is being provided free of
charge but the Bank has suggested that Government should start to phase out
this subsidy as from 1981 (para. 7.09).
3.13      The Kpoda extension unit would also provide assistance for improving
traditional foodcrops of maize, yams and cassava through use of improved
varieties as available, sowing and planting in line at higher density and use
of animal or chemical fertilizers. By PY5 the Kpoda irrigation scheme's
incremental production is expected to be about 900 t of paddy and about 100 t
each of maize, yams and cassava and by PY9 (full development) 1,000 t of
paddy, 140 t of maize, 180 t of yams and 220 t of cassava. Detailed farm
budgets are included in the Project File (Working Paper 1.4) and summarized at
Table G. (page 45).
3.14      This component would be implemented by a zone head (who would
also be responsible for carrying out the rainfed agriculture pilot scheme in
the southern part of the project area (para 3.18), one agricultural assistant,
four extension agents, and supporting staff including three mechanics (one
senior) and one assistant (in post). Implementation would be supervised by
the project manager (para 4.05).
3.15      The direct costs of the project sub-component are estimated at
CFAF 132 million (US$630,000), excluding contingencies. Detailed technical
specifications and cost estimates are in the Project File (Working Paper
No. 1.2).
Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Scheme
3.16      This project component would have the primary objective of introduc-
ing improvements for the traditional crops of those farmers in the area who do
not have the possibility of growing rice. It would be started in the northern
and southeastern parts of the project area, concentrated around the proposed
three new applied research sites (Map IBRD 13826) and later (PY4) extended to
two other zones in the southwest of the project area (Sandegue and Nassian).
Since the target farmers have never before received any extension advice or
used purchased inputs such as selected seed and fertilizer, the rate of
progress of the pilot scheme would be initially relatively slow, concentrating
during the first year (PY2) on demonstration activities using volunteer
farmers' fields. This would aim to create a climate of confidence among
target farmers by enabling them to directly observe, during organized visits,
improvements in rainfed maize and groundnut cultivation obtainable through
use of improved seed varieties (maize CJB, groundnuts RMP 91), higher plant-
ing density and application of fertilizer. Along with progress of applied
research, extension activities would be later diversified to include other
crops such as sorghum, millet, yams (early and late varieties) and cassava.



- 15 -
3.17       Within four years this component would reach directly about 1,350
smaliholder farmers, of whom about 90 would be taught the use of oxen, par-
ticularly for transport to assist in the harvest of yams and cassava, before
using them for cultivation. The scale of this pilot operation (1,350 farmers)
is judged to be the minimum necessary to yield reliable results over four
years and to test the feasibility of a broader dissemination of such improve-
ments during a possible follow-up project. By PY5 the pilot scheme's incre-
mental production is expected to be about 600 t of yams, 500 t of groundnuts,
700 t of maize, 200 t of cassava and 70 t of sorghum and millet, based on
expected yield increases which are detailed in the Project File (Working Paper
1.3). By PY15 (full development) the annual production increase is expected
to be about 5,000 t of yam, 2,200 t of groundnuts, 2,900 t of maize, 1,700 t
of sorghum-millet and 1,100 t of cassava. Detailed farm budgets are in the
Project File (Working Paper 1.4) and indicators are given in Table G (page
45).
3.18       This component would be implemented by the two zone heads (ITA
or senior assistant level, one for each of the northern and southern zones),
eight agricultural assistants and 50 extension agents, under the supervision
of the project manager (para 4.05). Direct costs of the pilot scheme,
are estimated at CFAF 220 million (US$1.1 million), excluding contingencies.
Details are in the Project File (Working Paper No. 1.3).
Training
3.19      Because of the relative backwardness of the North-East, special
efforts would be made under the project to train local people. In particular,
training would concern agricultural extension agents and village cooperative
(GVC) officials. The initial training for the agricultural staff would
consist: of a basic aqrenomy and extension course organized as an interphase
activity.  Annoal refresher courses would also be given to upgrade field
agents. In addition, regular workshops would be convened by the project
manager (para 4.05) in order to discuss project work programs or problems of
implementation. Training for GVC secretaries and treasurers would be given by
the eight ONPR cooperative agents and would consist of cooperative administra-
tion and bookkeeping courses (para 3.22). As staff and farmer training would
be an important aspect of the project, funds would be provided for the con-
struction and operation of a project training center at Ondefidouo near the
proposed applied research and field trials site. Construction of a training
center would be required for the following reasons: (i) the isolation of the
project area from the rest of the savannah region under CIDT management; (ii)
the lack of existing facilities in the area which could be used for training
purposes; and (iii) the proposed permanent link between training, applied
research and extension activities which makes a site for the training center
near to one of the applied research stations necessary. The center would
comprise demonstration, classroom and full boarding facilities for about 20
trainees. Cost of building and equipment are estimated at CFAF 15 million
(US$73,000) excluding contingencies.



- 16 -
3.20      The training center would be run by a Senior Training Officer,
assisted by one agricultural instructor and supporting staff. The Senior
Training Officer and the instructor would be locally recruited by CIDT and
should have proven experience in agricultural training. The Project Manager
(para 4.05) and the Senior Research Officer (para 3.23) would also participate
in training activities to ensure a permanent coordination betwee.n extension,
research and training activities under the proposed project. a four-year
program covering all training activities would be prepared by CIDT and
submitted to the Bank for approval by December 31, 1980.
Applied Research and Field Trials
3.21      Northeast Savannah Region.  A systematic applied research program
including field trials would be essential in order to work out suitable
technical packages to be recommended to farmers under the different climatic,
soils and population conditions in the region. The proposed project would
finance personnel, infrastructure and equipment to carry out field trials on
five experimentation sites, three of them in the north and two in the south of
the project area. The existing site of Ondefidouo would be enlarged from 8 to
16 ha and the two new ones would be of 8 ha each. In addition, three 8 ha
demonstration farms would be established near the northern experimentation
sites to undertake an ox-drawn cultivation program under the supervision of
the project's research staff (Map IBRD 13826).
3.22      The proposed five sites would be required because:  (i) the climate
is Soudanian in the north with a clearly defined rainy season between May and
October, and becomes Guinean in the south with an erratic bimodal rainfall
from March to October; (ii) population density, soil and cropping systems vary
considerably within the region; (iii) there is practically no applied research
and field trials experience in the region, the exception being some work under-
taken at Ondefidouo in the north, the progress of which has been hampered by
lack of funds (para 2.10); and (iv) limited foodcrop research trials carried
out in other parts of the Ivory Coast can at best be treated as indicative
guides to what might be suitable for the region.
3.23      The applied research program would be implemented by CIDT through
an Applied Research Unit (ARU) specially for the Northeast to be created
within the existing Field Trials and Monitoring Unit (FTMU) of COIDT. The
ARU would be headed by a Senior Research Officer --an experienced agricul-
turalist to be recruited internationally-- and assisted by one local
agriculturalist (ITA). One of these two research agriculturists would be
based at the Ondefidouo Station.  Each experimentation site would be managed
by an assistant and one observer/extension agent. Two other observer/extension
agents reporting to the assistant would supervise test and demonstration plots
on the farms.  The experimentation sites would be provided with permanent and
casual labor.



- 17 -
3.24       The ITA and the three assistants responsible for the applied re-
search program would be trained and would attend refresher courses at the
IDESSA experimental station in Bouake. The observers and the agents respon-
sible for demonstration plots and their monitoring at the farm level would
receive classroom training provided by the ARU head and ITA at the training
center to be established under the project. Practical training would be given
by the assistant at each experimentation site.
3.25      Northern and Central Savannah Regions.  In the present area of CIDT
activities (para 1.11) which covers about 150,000 km2 , with a rural population
of about 2.7 million, agricultural research is currently carried out by IDESSA
(IRAT, IRCT and IEMVT/CRZ) and by CIDT. IDESSA concentrates on basic research
and CIDT is currently implementing an applied research program --with CCCE
financing-- under the Bank assisted Cotton Areas Rural Development Project.
The gradual introduction of results on farmers' fields --actual conditions--
has already started in 1976/77, but design and implementation require improve-
ment and strengthening. The coordination of activities between IDESSA and
CIDT has been hampered, inter alia, by a shortage of IDESSA's budget funds and
by the inadequacy of the research base -- still heavily biased towards cotton--
to be tried out by CIDT under field conditions. A satisfactory two-way flow
of information between IDESSA's pure research and CIDT's extension/research
activities has not yet been fully achieved.
3.26      The existing 20 CIDT research sites, ranging from one to six ha,
which were previously pest monitoring points in the cotton producing areas,
lack the necessary means to carry out a comprehensive applied research
program, including trials under actual field conditions, on improved food and
fodder crops as well as on cotton. Under the proposed project, eight of these
sites would be enlarged to about 8 ha each, and three 8 ha demonstration farms
would be established in the vicinity of selected research sites to allow
experimentation mainly on food crops under controlled and actual conditions.
Possible locations for these eight sites, covering the range of agro-ecological
savannah zones, is shown on Map IBRD 14248; final location would be determined
by CIDT.
3.27      The existing CIDT Field Trials and Monitoring Unit (FTMU) is staffed
with two internationally recruited agriculturalists, one Ivorian agricultural
economist, and one Ivorian agriculturalist (Ingenieur des Travaux Agricoles,
ITA). This unit would continue supervising the program with technical assis-
tance to be provided by IDESSA. Staff requirements at each of the eight
proposed experimental sites, support services and staff training would be
similar to those described in North East Savannah Region (para 3.21). Detailed
costs of the applied research and field trials are in the Project File (Working
Paper No. 1.6).



- 18 -
3.28      Annual applied research and field trials, programs and budgets
would be prepared by CIDT. For PY1, CIDT would submit, not later than
March 31, 1980, an applied research and field trials program and budget for
approval by the Bank, covering both the North-East and Northern/Central
savannah regions.   For each year thereafter, CIDT would submit the annual
implementaticn program and budget to the Bank for approval not later than
September 30. The annual programs would be implemented by ARU/FTMU in close
collaboration with the Institut des Savanes (IDESSA) which would provide
specialist technical support such as for example, soil testing and foliar
analyses. Not later than September 30, 1980, CIDT would enter into an
operational agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with IDESSA, to define in
detail their respective role in the execution of the applied research and
field trials component. Total costs for the applied research and field trails
components are estimated at CFAF 875 million (US$4.2 million) without
contingencies.
Crop Marketing and Cooperative Development
3.29      This component of the proposed project is designed to meet the
following main objectives:  (i) to provide a nucleus input delivery and
crop marketing service, organized by the project management, sufficient to
meet the needs of the rainfed agriculture pilot component (1,350 farmers)
and the expansion of rice cultivation (1,040 farmers); and (ii) to provide
staff and facilities to strengthen the management of two existing cooperative
unions and to assure the formation and training of about 50 cooperative
village groups (GVC) attached to the unions.
3.30      Marketing and Inputs Services.  Input distribution would be carried
out in the field by CIDT extension staff but orders and delivery would be
arranged by and channelled through six ONPR Cooperative and Marketing Field
Agents (ACC) who are trained at the Bingerville cooperative college and would
be seconded to the project. Six 200 m2 field stores would be constructed
under contract for seeds, fertilizer and other farm inputs. These stores,
which would be Government property, would also serve as information centers
for organized marketing of yams, maize and groundnuts by CIDT and the coopera-
tives. They would be equipped with basic furniture, balance-scale, printing
calculator and sack barrows. In addition, to supplement existing private and
governmental crop buyers in the field, two CIDT mobile buying teams, each
equipped with a 7 t truck, scale and other equipment, would be provided
under the project to assist where necessary in the collection of yams, paddy
rice, maize and groundnuts from village centers. These teams would be
assisted by ONPR cooperative and marketing agents to ensure that villagers'
crops were ready for collection and that payment was made. Incentives for
farm production in the area would be improved by enforcing the existing
official producer price for paddy growers and by introducing pre-announced
support prices for maize and groundnuts; CIDT would be responsible for
implementation (paras 6.09-6.12). In addition, through the provision of
funds for the construction of access tracks and the improvement of bridges
and culverts (paras 3.32-3.40), the project would help to eliminate existing
constraints on marketing of crops. This would be particularly important for
early yams, the main cash crop of the region, of which an estimated 20,000 t
per year are exported therefrom but with considerable losses in transit.
Further details on the proposed marketing component are given in Chapter VI,
sections D and E.



- 19 -
3.31      Cooperative Development and Training.  This would be an integral
action undertaken by the ONPR cooperative and marketing agents (ACC), who
would be expected to fulfil a dual role of providing training to GVC and
of assisting CIDT with input distribution and crop marketing. Six ACC posted
in the field would assist existing GVC (pre-cooperative groups) and provide
pre-training courses to potential village secretary/ treasurers in order to
permit the formation of 50 new GVC during the five-year project period. For
the duration of the project, two additional ACC (also seconded from ONPR)
would be attached to, and financed by, the two cooperative unions to strength-
en their accounting and management capability. A Cooperative Supervisor
(CS), paid from ONPR's budget and attached to the project management would be
responsible for the supervision and coordination of activities of the eight
ACC working under the project. One vehicle and operating funds would be
provided for the CS. Six ACC would be provided with vehicles and paid
monthly allowances (post and housing). Not later than September 30, 1980,
CIDT would enter into an operational agreement with ONPR, satisfactory to the
Bank, to define in detail their respective roles in the execution of the Crop
Marketing and Cooperative Development program. Total costs for crop market-
ing and cooperative development components are estimated at CFAF 201 million
(US$955,000), without contingencies.
Rural Tracks
3.32       Access to the project area is generally adequate on main roads
and principal feeder roads, which are adequately maintained by the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW). Several secondary roads, important to the proposed
project would, however, need better drainage structures and river crossings to
ensure all-year passage. In addition, some access and service tracks within
the project area would need to be provided. The proposed rural tracks com-
ponent would include th3 construction and improvement of about 275 km of
access and service tra-ks which have been identified in the bottomland and
rainfed agriculture areas and the repair of culverts and short-span bridges on
secondary roads. No special engineering study would be required before
sub-project implementation. However, some inventory, limited topographic and
soil surveys, procurement for equipment and detailed work programming would
need to be done. CIDT would undertake some of this work but short-term
consultant assistance would be required. Under the proposed project finance
would be provided for these services: 12 man-months at US$8,000 per man-month.
Draft TOR for consultants are in the Project File (Working Paper 1.7).
3.33      Alternatives considered during appraisal for executing the rural
tracks program were: (a) using MPW force account; (b) contracting the works
to domestic firms; and (c) using CIDT's Rural Works Department (RWD). MPW's
construction capacity is already fully engaged with the feeder road construc-
tion ongoing under the Bank-financed Cotton Areas Rural Development Project
(Loan 1077-IVC) and the Feeder Roads and Highways Maintenance Project (Loan
1501-IVC). Moreover, there would be a risk, amply illustrated by past ex-
perience, of MPW adopting too high design standards for what should be very
modest tracks. On the other hand, supervising domestic contractors would be
impractical given the dispersed location of the construction works involved.
Therefore, using CIDr'[  RWD for executing this project component is considered
the best alternative  for reason  onutlined in the following paragraph.



- 20 -
3.34      CIDT has taken over the rice extension activities and the Rural
Works Department (RWD) of the recently dissolved SODERIZ (para 1.11). RWD
currently has six bulldozers (2 D7s, 2 D6s and 2 D4s), one motorgrader and a
mobile workshop. CIDT also operates several workshops for heavy equipment
supervised from Bouake by an expatriate mechanical engineer and five foremen.
Equipment maintenance is satisfactory. Even though RWD's activ'i:ies have so
far been restricted to other rural works besides tracks, it has the capacity
to operate efficiently a rural tracks construction and maintenance brigade if
provided with supplementary equipment and technical staff. Therefore it is
proposed that RWD would be furnished with the necessary equipment and operating
funds under the project to improve about 275 km of rural tracks in the project
area over a four-year period. RWD already has well-qualified Ivorian rural
works engineers, foremen and equipment operators to staff the new brigade.
3.35      The construction cf bridges and culverts on secondary roads (al-
ready maintained by MPW) would be carried out under the supervision of MPW,
employing domestic contractors. A detailed inventory of the works to be
performed would be carried cut by the consultants to be financed under the
project (para 3.32) and would be reviewed and approved by MPW and the Bank.
Not later than September 30, 1980, CIDT and MPW would enter into an operation-
al agreement acceptable to the Bank. Not later than December 31, 1980, MPW
would submit a detailed inventory of the bridges and culverts to be construct-
ed for approval by the Bank.
3.36      The proposed rural tracks component would comprise:  (a) purchase
of road construction equipment, spare parts, vehicles and survey equipment;
(b) purchase of materials and supplies, and provision of operating funds for
the four-year/construction period; (c) provision of technical staff and
consulting services; and (d) funds for constructing and rehabilitating about
40 small-span bridges (average 5 m each).
3.37      For the construction of access tracks a road brigade would be
constituted within RWD. The brigade would be expected to construct or improve
about 50 km during PY2, 60 km during PY3, 80 km during PY4, and 85 km during
PY5. The limited survey and engineering necessary prior to construction
works would be carried out by RWD during PY1. RWD would prepare the list of
access roads to be improved each year as well as the detailed annual work
program and the budget therefore. For PY2, CIDT would submit, not later than
September 30, 1980, the list of access tracks to be improved under the project,
and the related work program and budget for approval by the Bank. For each
year thereafter, CIDT would submit, not later than September 30, the list of
access tracks to be improved, as well as the related annual work program and
budget to the Bank for approval.
3.38      Assurances have been obtained that standards for access tracks to be
improved by CIDT would be essentially as follows:
Clearing width                            8-10 m
Formation width                           4-5 m
Gravelled width where necessary           4 m
Surface thickness                         10 cm



- 21 -
3.39      Track maintenance would be executed both during and after project
implementation by a RWD light brigade equipped with a grader and a service
truck. During the first two years of the program this light brigade would
also carry out emergency repair of existing tracks in the project area until
the required improvements are made. Maintenance would generally consist
of one grader passage each year in addition to clearing vegetation, filling
pot-holes, clearing ditches and cleaning drainage structures. The maintenance
program would cover about 25 km during the first year, about 80 km during
the second year, about 150 km during the third year and about 200 km during
the fourth year at an estimated cost of about CFAF 30,000 (US$120) per km
per year net-of-taxes but including equipment depreciation. Assurances
have been obtained that CIDT's annual budgets would include adequate provision
for the proper maintenance of the access tracks improved or to be improved
under the project.
3.40      The total cost of the project's rural tracks component is estimated
at CFAF 420 million (US$2.0 million), with an estimated 44%O foreign exchange
component of CFAF 184 million (US$0.9 million), excluding contingencies. Cost
details are in Annex 3, Table 9 and Working Paper 1.7 of the Project File.
Village Water Supply
3.41      In support of the 1975-1982 National Program for Rural Water Supply
drawn up by the Direction Centrale de l'Hydraulique (DCH) of the Ministry of
Public Works, the project would include the construction of about 10 wells
and 50 boreholes in the north-east savannah region to improve village water
supplies.  These facilities would cover about 25°o of the identified needs in
the project area; financing to cover the remainder is expected to be provided
by FED and Government.
3.42      Wells would be large (1.0 m) diameter drilled or dug wells with an
average depth of 15-20 m, with concrete casing and screens protected by a
gravel filter. The top of the well would have a concrete capping fitted with
a hand pump. The location of the wells would be determined in accordance with
normal technical parameters: existence of faults and indications of water in
the sandy transition zone between the solid rock and the natural soil, and
village surveys. The average cost for a well equipped with a hand pump is
about CFAF 2.75 million (US$13,000), in 1979 prices, based on actual costs
under the Cotton Areas Rural Development Project (Loan 1077-IVC).
3.43      Boreholes would be drilled into the crystalline rock, where inves-
tigations indicated weathered, fissured or fractured substructures and water
was proved by drilling reconnaissance holes. Average depth would be about 50
m. Plastic (PVC) screens and pipes would be used. Boreholes would be
gravel-packed with a 3 m concrete plug at the surface to ensure that water
purity is maintained, and hand pumps would be installed. The average cost
for an equipped tubewell is about CFAF 3.2 million (US$15,000), in 1979
prices.



- 22 -
3.44      The minimum discharge for wells and boreholes would be about 1 m3 /h.
Daily yield would thus be about 10,000 1. With an average consumption esti-
mated at 25 1/day/person, about 400 people or one village would be served by
each well so that the 60 project water points would serve about 25,000 people.
Total costs for the village water supply component are estimated at CFAF 195
million (US$[ 9), excluding contingencies, or an average of US$36 per bene-
ficiary.
3.45      Priorities for well construction would be determined by CIDT in
agreement with local authorities. Not later than March 31, 1981, CIDT would
submit to the Bank for approval the list of villages in the project area where
wells and boreholes would be constructed as well as the proposed budget. DCH
would have technical responsibility for siting the wells, supervising physical
execution and reception of the finished works. Satisfactory completion would
be certified jointly by CIDT and DCH. These responsibilities would be estab-
lished in an operational agreement between CIDT and DCH which would be
concluded not later than September 30, 1980. Societe pour la Realisation de
Forages d'Exploitation en Cote d'Ivoire (FOREXI), a national well drilling
company entrusted with all well construction under the National Program for
Rural Water Supply, would construct the 10 wells under a negotiated contract
with CIDT using unit rates for the work which are fixed by the Government
annually. About 50 boreholes would be drilled by a contractor selected by
CIDT after local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Maintenance of the wells and boreholes would be the responsi-
bility of the Societe de Distribution des Eaux en Cote d'Ivoire (SODECI).
There is an agreement in force between Government and SODECI which successfully
assures well and borehole maintenance throughout the country. New wells and
boreholes constructed under the project would be covered satisfactorily under
this agreement, so that no separate arrangements for the maintenance would be
required.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.46      Due to the pilot characteristics of the proposed project an effec-
tive system of monitoring and evaluation is even more necessary than under
a project based on well-proven experience. Such a system would be essential
as a project management tool, in gauging the effectiveness of the extension
service, for example, and as a means of supplying Government and project
cofinancers with indicators of progress in meeting project objectives.
3.47      Monitoring and evaluation of all agricultural aspects of the project,
including crop marketing activities, would be carried out by the existing
Field Trials and Monitoring Unit (FTMU) of CIDT (created under the Cotton
Areas Project, Loan 1077-IVC) and by the new Applied Research Unit (ARU) for
the Northeast, to be formed specially for the project now proposed. The
project manager would monitor and report on progress on other project com-
ponents: training, roads and water supplies. A comprehensive mid-term
evaluation of the project by Government, the Bank and outside consultants is
also foreseen. There would therefore be no need to create a separate project
monitoring and evaluation unit; existing agencies or those required in any
case for project implementation would be sufficient.



- 23 -
3.48      The agronomist/agro-economist to be recuited internationally to
head the ARU would be responsible for all field data collection activities.
For this purpose he would be supported by a small enumeration team consisting
of three supervisors (one based at each of the three applied research sites in
the Northeast) and six field enumerators. The supervisors would be of the
level of agricultural assistant and would undergo an initial 3-month basic
training with FTMU in field survey techniques before final selection by ARU.
The six enumerators would be selected from amongst the more experienced
extension workers of CIDT and would also receive formal and on-the-job
training in the Northeast.
3.49      Data analysis and evaluation would primarily be the responsibility
of the existing agronomists and farm economist of FTMU, although the ARU
(based in the project area) would be concerned with evaluation of agricul-
tural field trials under its control. The project would finance additional
subordinate staff and operating costs incurred by FTMU in carrying out data
analysis and report preparation. FTMU would provide information to two user
categories: to project management, and to Government and project cofinancers.
FTMU would report quarterly to the Proiect Manager on results of its regular
field surveys amongst project farmers and annually, to the Project Manager,
Government and the Bank, giving an analytic assessment of progress on the five
agricultural components (bottomlands, Kpoda scheme, rainfed agriculture, crop
marketing and applied research) against appraisal forecasts and discussing,
where necessary, any technical problems encountered in implementation. FTMU
would also prepare the detailed documentary data required for a comprehensive
mid-term evaluation of the project, and for a follow-up feasibility study to
be carried out by consultants, if results appear to justify. (Included in the
mid-term evaluation would also be an evaluation of the effectiveness of
monitoring and evaluation work carried out by FTMU). FTMU would, in addition,
be responsible for prepari rg a project completion report at the end of the
disbursement period.  FurLher 9.id4<ines on FTMU reporting requirements under
the project are given in Working Paper 1.10 (Project File).
3.50      Under the proposed project finance would be provided for incremental
staff salaries and allowances, miscellaneous equipment such as scales, measur-
ing tapes, compasses, small calculators for field enumerators, and necessary
additional operating costs of FTMU and ARU. Funds would also be provided for:
i) consultant services; ii) additional clerical staff for data coding; and
iii) computer hire for data analysis. Details of physical equipment and
costs are presented in the Proiect File (Annex 3, Table 13). The total cost
for monitoring and evaluation over the project period is estimated at CFAF
63 million (US$300,000), excluding contingencies.
Studies and Surveys
3.51      Savannah Zones.  In order to improve knowledge of traditional
farming systems practiced in the area, an Agro-Economic survey would be
carried out in PY1 by the Department of Statistics of MINAGRI. The survey
would focus on farm sizes, labor use and production patterns, and the relative
importance of livestock and cropping activities, as well as potential sources



- 24 -
of non-farm income.  The results of this survey would provide important base
-line data for extension activities, particularly under the rainfed agriculture
pilot scheme (para 3.16), applied research (para 3.21), crop marketing and
cooperative development (para 3.29) and for project monitoring and evaluation
(para 3.46). Costs are estimated at CFAF 44 million (US$210,000) including up
to 5 man/months of consultant support (US$40,000).
3.52      In order to define more adequately the existing and potential land
use patterns in the savannah zones, funds would be provided to the Ministry
of Agriculture for the purchase and processing of seasonal imagery of the
region taken by satellite as well as for the computer analysis, ground control
and interpretation of this imagery. Both photographic and digital imagery
records would be processed. Pertinent land use/land cover categories would be
selected based on ground truthing activities using film products at the
1:250,000 scale. Land use patterns would then be categorized by analysis of
the satellite computer tapes and tabulated on the basis of administrative
divisions of the region. Features like roads and towns, would be overlaid at
a scale of 1:250,000 using existing topographic maps of the region. The
estimated cost would be about CFAF 48 million (US$230,000).
3.53      Funds would also be provided for a comprehensive mid-term evaluation
and feasibility study of a possible follow-up project by consultants. Draft
terms of reference for the rnid-term evaluation study would be submitted to
the Bank for approval by October 31, 1982. The results of this evaluation
study would be reviewed by l,overnment and the Bank by September 30, 1983,
before a feasibility study of a follow-up project is undertaken. Terms of
reference of a feasibility study would be agreed with the Bank, as would
qualifications and terms of employment of consultants employed thereon.
Twenty-five man-months of consultants (at about US$8,000 per man-month) and
funds for operating costs would be provided for this purpose, totalling about
CFAF 55 million (US$260,000).
3.54      MINAGRI Studies and Project Preparation.  Included also in the
proposed bank financing for the project are funds (CFAF 150 million, US$715,000
excluding contingencies) for financing foreign costs of consultants to
assist Government in agricu:Ltural development planning over the five-year
project period. Approximately CFAF 50 million (US$240,000) is intended to
finance consultants to be employed to carry out studies and policy analysis in
the field of food crop production, marketing and prices, in the framework of a
new interministerial committlee (Comite de Reflexion et de Concertation sur les
Problemes Vivriers) (CRCPV) recently set up by Government with a secretariat
provided by MINAGRI. It is expected that this commitee will, inter alia,
review the question of subsiLdies for rice production (para. 7.12) and arrange-
ments for primary marketing both of paddy (para. 6.09) and of other food crops
such as maize and groundnuts (para. 6.13). The committee's reoorts would be
discussed with the Bark during project supervision and in the context of
future agricultural project preparation.



- 25 -
3.55      Approximately CFAF 100 million (US$475,000) is to finance foreign
costs of consultants to assist MINAGRI in project preparation. They would be
recruited by and work together with the MINAGRI project study bureau, BETPA,
on the preparation of feasibility reports and other donors. A list of such
possible projects has been discussed with Government.
3.56       Terms of reference for studies to be carried out using Bank-financed
consultants would be agreed between the Government and the Bank before such
consultants were recruited. The qualifications, selection and conditions of
employment of such consultants would be acceptable to the Bank.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The Executing Agency
4.01       The national cotton development corporation, Compagnie Ivoirienne
pour le Developpement des Textiles (CIDT) would be entrusted by Government
with the implementation of the project. CIDT has shown a satisfactory mana-
gerial performance as the executing agency for the Cotton Areas Rural Develop-
ment Project, Loan 1077-IVC (para 1.11). Government and CIDT would enter
into a Convention which, among other features, would determine CIDT tasks and
responsibilities for the execution of the project, the flow of funds as well
as monitoring and reporting requirements, and financial arrangements for
remunerating CIDT for overhead costs incurred in providing accounting and
procurement services for the project (para 4.02). A draft Convention was
discussed at negotiations. The signing of such a Convention on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan.
B. Project Organization
4.02       CIDT would be responsible for overall project supervision and
monitoring, including the preparation of annual programs, budgets and progress
reports, and for procurement. Financial control would be assured by the
general and analytical accounting services of CIDT. These services would be
provided by CIDT in return for an agreed fee of CFAF 25 million (US$119,000)
per year (in 1979 terms) to be paid by Government. The level of this fee is
considered reasonable, compared with the costs of establishing a new imple-
mentation unit for the project.
4.03       Project implementation would also involve:  (i) IDESSA, which would
provide technical support, training and supporting services for the Applied
Research and Field Trials (paras 3.21-.28); (ii) ONPR, which would provide
personnel, training and technical support for Crop Marketing and Cooperative



- 26 -
Development (para 3.29); (iii) MPW, which would be responsible for the
construction of bridges and culverts under the rural tracks component (para
3.32), to be awarded to local contractors (para. 3.35); (iv) DCH, which would
have, under a letter of agreement with CIDT, technical responsibility for
siting wells, supervising physical execution and reception of the finished
works in the -illage Water Supply component (para 3.45); (v) FOREXI, which
would be responsible, under a negotiated contract with CIDT, for the con-
struction of wells (para 3.45); (vi) SODECI, which would be responsible for
the maintenance of the wells and boreholes to be constructed under the
project (para 3.45); and (vii) BETPA, which would participate in the prepara-
tion of a possible follow-up project (para 3.53). Not later than September
30, 1980, CIDT would enter into operational agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with IDESSA, ONPR, DCH and MPW to define in detail their respective
roles in the execution of the project components.
4.04       To implement the project, CIDT would be strengthened with additional
resources and funding as required. Consequently, offices for CIDT would be
built and equipped at Bouna and Bondoukou. Provision under project financing
is also made for the construction and equipping of houses to accommodate the
project manager, the two zone heads, and the two ARU agriculturalists. The
CIDT Field Trials and Monitoring Unit (FTMU) would be responsible for super-
vising the applied research and field trials programs in the Northeast and in
the Northern and Central Savannah regions and for monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural components of the project (para 3.46).
C. Staffing
4.05       Key project staff would be:  (i) the Project Manager, who would be
based in Bondoukou; (ii) the two Zone Heads, one in Bouna and another in
Bondoukou (paras 3.08-.14-.18); (iii) the Senior Training Officer (para 3.20);
(iv) the ARU Senior Research Officer, who would be based at Ondefidouo (para
3.23); (v) the ARU agriculturalist (para 3.23); and (vi) the Cooperative
Supervisor (ONPR) (para 3.31). The Project Manager and the ARU Senior Research
Officer would be required to have technical qualifications and experience
currently unavailable or in critically short supply in the Ivory Coast, and
would therefore be internationally recruited by CIDT. Their responsibilities
and required qualifications are in the Project File. The expatriate staff
would also ensure that senior local staff be given on-the-job training in
project management aspects, such as work planning and supervision, and budget-
ing. They would also provide on-the-job technical training to local personnel
and would participate in the programming and execution of the training activi-
ties (paras 3.19-.20). The remaining key project staff would be ensured by
CIDT by internal transfer, by secondment from other institutions, or by new
recruitment. They would be appointed after consultation with the Bank. ClDT
would also appoint the additional field and supporting staff necessary to
implement the proposed project. Assurances have been obtained that: (a) CIDT



- 27 -
would appoint or cause to be appointed to all the above key project positions,
and for the duration of the project, staff with suitable qualifications and
experience; and (b) all key project staff would be employed by CIDT under
terms of reference and having qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank. It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan that
CIDT would have employed and in post the Project Manager and the ARU Senior
Research Officer, under the above conditions.
D. Farm Inputs Distribution and Credit Terms
4.06       Inputs would be distributed to farmers by CIDT.  For all three pro-
ductive sub-projects (paras 3.05-3.18) CIDT would continue to use substantially
the same satisfactory arrangements developed in the course of implementing the
Cotton Areas Rural Development Project (Loan 1077-IVC).
4.07       Improved rice varieties to be used in bottomlands and in the Kpoda
irrigated scheme would be produced by CIDT as previously. Until the ARU
(para 3.23) had tested high-yielding adapted varieties for other main crops,
project farmers would use improved CJB maize and RMP91 groundnuts varieties
which are also produced by CIDT. However, as groundnut seeds have to be
renewed every fourth year, groundnut seed production would be partly organized
amongst participating farmers in order to limit the quantities to be trans-
ported from outside the project area.
4.08      Seasonal inputs --seeds produced by CIDT or by selected farmers,
fertilizer and pesticides-- would be distributed to farmers on credit, repay-
able within one year at the prevailing agricultural lending rate of 8°o per
annum (about 2.5%o to cover BNDA's and CIDT's administrative costs, plus the
average cost of funds to BNDA estimated at about 5.5°%). The proposed interest
rate on farm credit of 8%o per annum is considered acceptable (para 4.12).
4.09      Ox-drawn equipment - yokes, carts, toolbars and seeders - would
be supplied to farmers on medium term credit - up to four years - also at
8%°o per annum. Participating farmers, for whom CIDT would open individual
accounts, would be required to contribute 20% towards the cost of seasonal
inputs and equipment, and 80%° would be on credit. In addition, farmers
would use their own funds to purchase hand tools, bags, and hire labor ser-
vices. Equipment for rice farming in the Kpoda Irrigated Scheme (para.
3.1l)--power tillers and rice threshers--would be purchased by CIDT, with funds
provided under the project, and rented to farmers at about CFAF 23,600/ha
(US$112) in 1979 prices, a rate which would cover the full cost to CIDT of
purchase and operation of such equipment.
4.10      Farmers' credit accounts would be kept centrally at the zone level
(Bouna and Bondoukou) under the direct supervision of the CIDT zone heads. By
PY5, about 2,400 participating farmers would be expected to have either a
seasonal or a medium term credit account. Details on a Revolving Credit Fund
to finance incremental farm inputs and equipment are at Annex 1, Table 3. The



- 28 -
six ONPR Cooperative Field Agents to be assigned to the project (para 3.31)
would perform both an executive role in preparing annual forecasts of input
requirements in their area and in assisting with physical distribution to
farmers; and an educative role in teaching villagers the basic essentials of
book-keeping and stock management with a view to creating about 50 new coopera-
tive village groups (GVC). These would eventually relieve CI' of much of the
work of maintaining individual farmer credit accounts.
4.11       Recovery of credit owed by rice farmers would be effected by
deduction through the official paddy marketing channels (CIDT as agent for
OCPA). Credit recovery frorn farmers participating in the rainfed agriculture
pilot project (para 3.16) would be ultimately through the GVC's, once created
and in operation and in the meantime through individual collection by CIDT
field agents assisted by the ONPR cooperative agents. In the first few years,
fairly high rates of default: may occur due to the unfamiliarity of most
project area farmers (particularly those in the North) with the notion of
credit as an instrument of production.  Provision is therefore made in the
revolving credit fund for defaults on repayment of seasonal loans of up
to 15 percent (Annex I, TabLe 3). Credit repayments are likely to improve:
(a) as experience with supervised credit in the North-East is gained; (b) as
Lobi farmers become increasingly settled in the project area; and (c) as
organized marketing for cash crops is developed under the project. Medium-
term loans for purchase of farm equipment (rice threshers, ox ploughs, etc.)
would be secured against the material issued.
4.12       Over the 1976-78 period the average rate of inflation, measured by
the price index for domestic consumption and investment, has been about 11.5%D.
It is projected to reach about 12°o in 1979 and to decline to about 6%o in 1983.
Thus, in the medium term (until about 1981-82), there would be a subsidy
element in the interest rate (8°o) that would be applied for loans under the
project.  However, this interest rate would become positive in real terms
afterwards; this is considered to be satisfactory.  BNDA is the only institu-
tion which provides loans for farm development in the Ivory Coast since
commercial banks are not involved in this type of lending.  Since BNDA has
adequate rediscounting facilities at the central bank (para 5.07), credit for
farm inputs and equipment wculd not require external financing uinder the
project.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.13       Proposed implementation arrangements are described in paras 3.46-3.50
and guidelines on survey design and reporting requirements are included in the
Project File (Working Paper 1.10).



- 29 -
F. MINAGRI Studies and Project Preparation
4.14       Proposed implementation arrangements are discussed in para. 3.54-3.56.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
5.01       Project costs during the five-year investment period, inclusive of
taxes, are estimated at CFAF 4,431 million (US$21.1 million).  The foreign
exchange component would be CFAF 1,674 million (US$8.0 million) or 38°o.  Ex-
clusive of taxes, the total project cost would be CFAF 4,070 million (US$19.4
million).
5.02       Cost estimates are based on mid-1979 prices and include identifiable
taxes amounting to CFAF 360 million (US$1.7 million). Local staff would
receive a base salary and allowances according to the CIDT salary scales.
Construction, equipment and vehicle costs are based on late-1978 contractors'
and dealers' quotations, including local taxes. The costs of expatriate
personnel, including all benefits and allowances, are in line with those
actually paid by CIDT, and average US$8,000 per man-month.
5.03       Estimated costs include the following contingencies:  (a) physical
contingencies of 15%' on civil works, 10°o on operating costs and 5%G on
all other costs, excluding expatriate personnel; and (b) expected local and
international price increases applied on baseline costs plus physical
contingencies, compounded yearly as shown in Table A below. Total contin-
gencies thus calculated amount to 37%O of baseline cost estimates or 27° of
total project costs. Costs are summarized in Table B (page 31), and a
yearly breakdown is given in Annex 1, Table 1.



- 30 -
Table A: Estimated Contingencies and Price Increases
A.   Physical Contingencies:
Buildings and civil works:               15%0 of base costs 1/
Operating expenses:                      10% of base costs
Vehicles and equipment,
Studies and surveys,
Local personnel,
Other costs:                             5% of base costs
Expatriate personnel:                     0
B.   Expected Price Increases:
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual Rates (%0):
Local Costs 2/       12       10        8       7        6        6
Foreign Costs 3/    12        10.5      9       8        7        7
Compounded Factors (mid-79=l.000) 4/
Local Costs        1.000    1.110   1.210   1.301   1.385   1.468
Foreign Costs      1.000    1.125   1.221   1.325   1.424   1.524
1/   Base costs in terms of estimated mid-1979 prices.
2/   Based on estimates made by Bank economic mission, March 1979.
3/   Based on Bank guidelines, revised January 1980.
4/   Derived from average of annual rates in years n and n-i, to give
index for mid-year n.
B. Financing Plan
5.04      Project expenditures would be financed by Government, the Conseil
de l'Entente (CE) through the Fonds d'Entraide et de Garantie des Emprunts
(using FAC and USAID funds) and the Bank; incremental costs of farm inputs
and equipment would be financed by BNDA and farmers (para 4.12).  The financing
plan agreed at negotiations is as follows in Table C (see also in Annex 1,
Table 2):



IVORY COAST
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
-------- CFAF million --------                   US$'000                 Percent of
Component                                 Local      Foreign       Total                    Total                 Base Cost
1. Bottomlands Development                              69            4          73                      348                       2.3
2. Rehabilitation Kpoda Irrigated Scheme                 83          49         132                      629                       4.1
3. Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Scheme                    214            6         220                    1,048                       6.8
4. Incremental Farm Inputs & Equipment                   64          83         147                      700                       4.6
5/6. Applied Research & Field Trials                      639         235         874                    4,162                      27.1
7. Training Program                                      59          15          74                      352                       2.3
8. Crop Marketing & Cooperative Development             105          96         201                      957                       6.2
9. Rural Roads                                         236          184         420                    2,000                      13.0
10. Village Water Supply                                  78         117         195                      929                       6.0
11. Project Support Services                             319         212         531                    2,529                      16.4
12. Studies and Consultants                               59         238         297                    1,414                       9.2
13. Monitoring and Evaluation                            51           12          63                      300                       2.0
Total Base Costs                                  1,976       1,251        3,227                  15,368                      100.0    >
Physical Contingencies                              124           90         214                    1,019                       6.6
Expected Price Increases                            657          333         990                   4,714                       30.7
Total Project Costs                               2,757       1,674       4,431                   21,101                      137.3
of which taxes                                      360         -            360                   1,714
Total Costs Net of Taxes                          2,397       1,674        4,071                   19,387
R
Revised 1/80                                                                                                                            Wd



- 32 -
Table C: Proposed Financing Plan
(US$'000)
USAID/   FAC/   IVC    bNDA/
Bank      CE      CE      Govt   rarmers    Total
Building and Civil Works            520   2,020        90    620         -       3,250
Vehicles & Equipment                720      740      120    390         -       1,970
Local Personnel                   3,100      940      510  3,420         -       7,970
Expatriate Staff                    870        -      140       -        -       1,320
Operating Costs                   2,560        -      420    900         -       3,880
Consultants and Surveys           1,630        -      120    260         -       2,010
Incremental Farm Inputs
& Equipment                         -        -        -       -     700          700
Total Costs                 9,400   3,700   1,400  5,900         700      21,100
(/)                          (44.5) (17.5)       (7)   (28)       (3)       (100)
Total Net-of-Tax            9,400   3,700   1,400  4,200         700      19,400
(%)                            (48)    (19)      (7)   (22)       (4)       (100)
5.05       It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$9.4 million be made to the
Government for a term of 17 years, including a four-year grace period, at
an interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum.  The proposed Bank loan would
finance 48% of project costs excluding taxes, or 44.5%o of total project costs.
A condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan would be the effectiveness of a
cofinancing loan agreement between Government and Conseil de l'Entente/USAID.
5.06       CE/FAC funds (US$1.4 million) would be made available to Government
as a grant in five annual tranches amounting to about FF 6 million. The
CE/USAID loan for US$3.7 million would be made to Government for a term of 40
years, including a 9 1/2-year grace period, at an annual interest rate of
3.5%O.  CE/USAID funds have to be deployed over three years.  Because of USAID
procurement rules CE/USAID would finance in parellel the total cost (net of
taxes) of (a) civil works for the Kpoda irrigation scheme, applied research
sites, training center, project headquarters and village water supplies, and
(b) plant and equipment for road improvement; and some of the local staff
salaries for applied research. The Bank would finance costs of consultants to
assist MINAGRI in foodcrop policy studies and project preparation. A relatively
small amount of finance for farm credit would be required (US$0.6 million over



- 33 -
5 years) and this would be financed by BNDA.  The rest of the project would
be financed pari-passu by the Bank, CE/FAC and the Government (Annex 1, Table
2). Total external financing of about CFAF 3,050 million (US$14.5 million)
woiuld represent 75°% of project costs, net of taxes, and would cover estimated
foreign exchange costs of CFAF 1,675 million (US$8.0 million) plus CFAF 1,375
million (US$6.5 million), or 57%n, of local costs, net of taxes.
5.07      BNDA has access to the rediscount facilities of the Banque Centrale
des Etats de l'Afrigue de l'Ouest (BCEAO) to finance farm inputs in sufficient
volume and at a preferential interest rate of 5.5%' per annum.  This arrange-
ment, which has been working satisfactorily, would be continued under the
project. BNDA would thus borrow from BCEAO about US$560,000 equivalent to
finance credit to farmers through a revolving fund to be administered by
CIDT (Annex 1, Table 3).  CIDT's onlending rate to farmers would be 8o.  The
interest spread retained by BNDA and CIDT of 2.5%o is expected to cover admin-
istrative costs. Provision is made in financing of the revolving credit fund
for defaults on repayment of seasonal loans of up to 15°o due to the lack of
previous experience with supervised credit in the Northeast (para 4.11).
An assurance has been obtained that BNDA would provide sufficient funds to
finance credit to farmers, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
5.08      The Bank loan and CE's contribution to the project would be chan-
nelled through the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), which is the Govorn-
ment's agency for handling all official foreign financing and repayments.
These funds, together with Government's and BNDA's contributions, would be
deployed as follows:
(a)  CFAF 3,901 million (US$18.6 million) would be passed
on to CIDT to cover the costs of: bottomland develop-
ment, CFAF 107 million (US$505,000); rehabilitation of
the Kpoda irrigated scheme, CFAF 184 million (US$875,000);
rainfed agriculture pilot scheme, CFAF 318 million
(US$1,515,000); applied research and field trials
program in the project area and in the rest of the
savannah regions, including monitoring and evaluation
of the project, CFAF 1,293 million (US$6,155,000);
training programs, CFAF 102 million (US$485,000);
cooperatives and marketing program, CFAF 290 million
(US$1,380,000); construction of rural tracks, CFAF 514
million (US$2,450,000); construction of village wells
and boreholes, CFAF 285 million (US$1,360,000); project
supporting services, CFAF 731 million (US$3,480,000);
(b)  CFAF 117 million (US$560,000) would be made available
by BNDA to a revolving fund to be kept by CIDT to
finance farm inputs and equipment supplied on credit
to participating farmers;



- 34 -
(c) CFAF 77 million (US$370,000) would be passed on to the
Ministry of Public Works (para. 3.32) to cover the
construction costs of bridges and culverts under the
rural roads program; and
(d) CFI^K 194 million (US$925,000) would be passed on to
MINAGRI to finance the costs of studies and surveys
(para. 3.51-53); and
(e)  CFAF 190 million (US$900,000) would be passed on to
MINAGRI to finance costs of consultants recruited for
BETPA or CRCPV (para. 3.54).
The remainder, CFAF 29 million (US$140,000), would be financed by par-
ticipating farmers as cash payments (20%O) for farm inputs.
5.09      Government would provide pre-financing for the project by advancing
adequate funds for project execution into the project account held by CIDT, by
March 31 of each year. Government has given an assurance to this effect. A
formula for determining the frequency and amount of such pre-financing would
be included in the Convention between Government and CIDT, the signature of
which on terms satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness.
Pre-financing would mainly be required during PYI and PY2. During this period
project expenditures by CIDT are estimated at CFAF million 480 and 900,
respectively. Given the rates of external disbursement expected, and on the
basis of six-monthly prefinancing, it is estimated that an average of about
half of forecast yearly CIDT project expenditures would be required, or a
total of about CFAF 750 million. The actual amounts of prefinancing required
would vary depending on a number of factors and would be agreed for each
semester under the terms of the Convention.
C. Procurement
5.10      The following procedures would be used for procurement of Bank-financed
goods and services. Contracts for vehicles and equipment of US$100,000
equivalent or more would be awarded after international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines. To the maximum
extent feasible, purchases would be grouped for purposes of bidding. Locally
manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15°o or the level of
applicable import duty, whichever is the lower, when comparing domestic with
foreign bids under ICB. ICB would concern the purchase of about 21 project
vehicles in PYI and PY4 (about US$0.3 million).
5.11      Contracts for construction of storage facilities (about US$270,000)
and of small bridges and culverts under the roads program (up to about
US$370,000) would be individually too small and too dispersed to attract
international contractors and would be awarded on the basis of locally-
advertised competitive bidding. Draft tender documents and review of bids
would be submitted to the Bank for approval before award of contracts.



- 35 -
Locally-based contractors exist in sufficient numbers and are capable of
carrying out the required works. Local competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines would be employed for all purchases of goods estimated to cost
between US$20,000 and $USlOO,000 equivalent, totalling about US$0.2 million.
Goods costing less than US$20,000 equivalent, and not exceeding US$0.6 million,
would be procured by negotiated purchase, normally on the basis of at least
three suppliers' quotations.
5.12      CIDT would carry out by force account land clearing and fencing and
road construction totalling US$1.6 million. Satellite imagery, US$0.3
million, would be procured through negotiated contract. Civil works, valued
at US$0.9 million, would be financed by CE/USAID in accordance with USAID
guidelines and procedures. Incremental inputs and equipment financed by
BNDA, valued at US$0.7 million, would be purchased according to local proce-
dures. Local staff salaries, US$7.4 million, and operating costs of vehi-
cles, building and offices, amounting to US$3.1 million, would be incurred in
accordance with CIDT and Government procedures.
5.13      Technical assistance (project manager and senior agricultural
research officer) and consulting services estimated to cost about US$1,300,000
and US$1,500,000 respectively, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for international recruitment and use of consultants. The average
cost of Technical Assistance is estimated at about US$100,000 per man-year
(US$90,000, net of income taxes), of which US$75,000 for salary and benefits
and US$15,000 for administrative costs, housing and transport. The project
would include a total of about 165 man/months of consultants, costed at an
average of US$8,000 per man/month (in end-1979 prices).
D. Disbursement
5.14      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a)  CATEGORY I:  55° of Building and Civil Works expenditures, defined
as (i) construction costs of storage facilities; (ii) costs of land
clearing for ox-drawn cultivation; and (iii) costs of construction
of bridges and culverts: US$450,000;
(b)  CATEGORY II:  55°o of the cost to CIDT of Vehicles and Equipment,
except for vehicles and equipment for road construction: US$600,000;
(c)  CATEGORY III:  55%o of the costs of Local Personnel, except
for personnel employed on applied research: US$2,600,000;
(d)  CATEGORY IV:  55%n of the costs of Technical Assistance to CIDT:
US$750,000;
(e)  CATEGORY V:  55°o of Incremental Operating Expenses incurred
in implementing the project:  US$2,100,000;



- 36 -
(f)  CATEGORY VI:  55%O of the costs of carrying out the following
Studies: (i) an agro-economic survey in the project area;
(ii) a land-use survey of the savannah regions based on satellite
imagery; (iii) a rnid-term evaluation of the project; and (iv)
preparation of a Follow-up project in the North-East: US$600,000;
(g)  CATEGORY VII:  100%o of the foreign costs of Consulta,cs engaged
by MINAGRI on (i) fooderop production and marketing studies
and (ii) agricultural project preparation studies: US$900,000;
(h) CATEGORY VIII: US$1,400,000 of the loan amount would be
unallocated.
Disbursements against (a), (b), (d), (f) and (g) above would be fully documented
except for item (ii) carried out on force account, for which disbursemet
would be against certificates of expenditure. Disbursements against (c) and
(e) would also be on the basis of certificates of expenditure, with the
supporting documentation retained by CIDT and made available for inspection by
Bank project supervision missions and by independent auditors (para 5.15).
A forecast schedule of disbursements is given at Annex 1, Table 4.
E. Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements
5.15       CIDT would open and administer a separate project account, and keep
records consistent with sound accounting practice and adequate to reflect its
operational and financial situation. These records would also show the
accounts of the respective project components and the status of farmers' loans
and repayments. CIDT would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and their reports would be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
may reasonably request. The project accounts and auditors' reports would be
sent to the Bank not later than six months after the closing of the CIDT's
financial year. In addition, CIDT would prepare quarterly progress reports
to keep Government and the co-financiers informed of project progress.
MPW would keep separate accounts for the parts of the roads program under its
responsibility. MINAGRI would keep separate accounts for the various studies
and surveys to be financed under the project. These accounts would be
audited annually by state controllers.
5.16.      In addition, CIDT would make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the independent audit of expenditures under the project on account of
which disbursements would be made on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
Such expenditures would consist of: civil works carried out by CIDT on force
account (Category I); costs of employing local personnel (Category III);
and project operating expenses (Category V) (para 5.14). The auditor's
opinion would certify that (i) goods or services had been received or work
performed; (ii) payments had been made; and (iii) goods and services paid for
had been used solely for the purpose of the Project. It would also furnish to
the Bank any other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of CIDT, and the audit thereof, as the Bank might request.



- 37 -
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Project Production and Constraints
6.01      Besides training, applied agricultural research and improvement of
the rural infrastructure, the proposed project would finance three directly
productive agricultural components: bottomlands development, the Kpoda rice
scheme and a pilot agricultural development scheme under rainfed conditions.
The volume of expected increases in total and marketable crop production
from these components over the short and medium term, and proposed measures
to remedy existing constraints to the marketing of this production, are
given below.
6.02      By PY6 (the year after project completion) the total crop production
from 3,440 farms estimated to be directly affected by the project is expected
to increase by about 50%o over the pre-project level. Provided that extension
and input delivery were maintained after this pilot project, continued develop-
ment on these farms would be expected to bring about further increases in
production, as shown in Table D. These would be mainly the result of the
rainfed of agriculture pilot scheme, which would account for about 65%0 of
the area cultivated at full development by project farmers. The projected
increases in rainfed crop production are contingent upon success of the pilot
phase; for rice production the estimates can be considered firmer as improved
techniques have already been successfully introduced in the area (para 3.05).
Table D: Projected Project Production ('000 tons)
Project            Full
Pre-Project    Completion         Development    Growth Rate
PYO             PY5              PY15          (%0 p.a.)
(total) (incr.)  (total) (incr.)   PYO-PY15
Yam                      8.0         9.0      1.0     14.2      6.2         3.9
Cassava                  1.7         2.0      0.3      3.0      1.3         3.9
Maize                    1.0         2.0      1.0      4.7      3.7        10.9
Sorghum                  1.5         1.6      0.1      2.7      1.2         4.0
Millet                   0.7         0.75    0.05      1.5      0.8         5.2
Rice                     0.7         2.6      1.9      4.3      3.6        12.9
Groundnuts               0.15        0.7      0.55     2.6      2.5        20.9
Total              13.75       18.65    4.9      32.9    19.2         6.0
No. of target farmers  3,440        3,440             3,440                   -
No. of improved
farmers                   -       2,390             3,440
Area cultivated        10,250 ha  11,230 ha          13,670 ha              1.9
Detailed annual projections of crop areas and yields for individual project
components together with their agronomic basis are given in Working Paper 1.4
(Project File).
6.03      During the proposed first-phase project, extension activities
would concentrate primarily on increasing the production of rice, maize and



- 38 -
groundnuts, through use of improved production techniques and introduction of
selected seed varieties which are available in the Ivory Coast. Further work
on refining these techniques and testing these seed varieties for their local
adaptation would be done concurrently under the applied research component of
the project. Emphasis would be given to increasing the area planted with
groundnuts, ;) agronomically desirable crop for inclusion in the upland
rotation and also well adapted to the region. However, the expected rate of
adoption by farmers would depends partly on the introduction of organized
marketing facilities for this crop, as well as for maize (para 6.08). At the
same time, project activities would aim at demonstrating modest yield improve-
ments in yam cultivation through measures such as careful selection of plant-
ing material, improved soil preparation with ox-ploughing and the use of
insecticides to reduce planting losses.  An important objective would be to
limit and control the acreage devoted to yam cultivation since this crop has
tended to deplete the fertility of shallow soils in the area.
6.04      Projecting the proposed farm development through to its full develop-
ment pattern, reached in PY15, the largest absolute increases in production
would be in yams (6,200 tons), maize (3,700 tons), rice (3,600 tons paddy)
and groundnuts (2,500 tons in shell). The foreseen development pattern
would be modified in the light of experience gained during project execution.
Adoption by farmers of improved cultivation methods for maize, rice and
groundnuts is expected to gradually increase as more productive technical
packages are tested and confirmed during the project. This would bring about
a relative shift away from the traditionally grown small grains, cowpeas
and yams, for which improvements compatible with local tastes (sorghum and
millet) and market preferences (Bouna yam) are likely to follow more slowly.
However, a necessary condition for farmer acceptance of higher-yielding but
more input-demanding packages for maize, rice and groundnuts would be a
greater degree of certainty that increased production could be sold at
sufficiently remunerative prices. This issue would be addressed under the
project by establishing seasonal buying markets for these three crops at
guaranteed floor prices (paras 6.09-6.12).
B. Crop Production and Marketing in the Project Area
6.05      Foodcrop production estimates for the project area, like those for
the country as a whole, are imprecise. However, an indication of the rela-
tive importance of production in the Northeast (Bouna and Bondoukou depart-
ments) and estimates of the production which is presently marketed are given
in Table E.



- 39 -
Table E: Foodcrop Production and Marketing Estimates; Country and North East
Estimated 1975                Estimated NE
Production ('000 t)          Marketed Production
Ivory Coast  North-East  (%)        ('000 t)   LOA
Yam (early and late var.)       2,200          230      10          30       13
Cassava                         1,150          134      12           13      10
Taro                              250           13       5           ..       -
Banana Plantain                 1,150           15       1           ..       -
Groundnuts (in shell)               48           3       6            1      30
Rice (paddy)                      460            5        1           4      80
Maize                              330          23        7           2      10
Sorghum                             32          12      37            1      10
Millet                              48           8      17            1      10
6.06      Actual and proposed farm cropping patterns have been analyzed to
determine what foodcrop amounts would be needed by smallholder families for
their own consumption and what proportions of expected incremental produc-
tion would be marketable. This analysis highlights the importance of local
dietary practices, as well as farmers' risk-aversion: under an improved
cropping pattern the relative area devoted to low-yielding grain crops like
sorghum and millet should only be reduced in line with dependable and economic
yield improvements and local acceptability of new varieties (details are in
the Project File, Working Paper 1.11). Resulting estimates of incremental
marketable quantities for PY5 and at full development (PY15) are shown in
Table F below.
Table F: Increased Marketable Production due to Project
(tons/year)
Presently
PY5     PY15      Marketed
_____     Quantities
Yams                                        700    4,700        30,000
Cassava                                     300    1,300        13,000
Groundnuts (in shell)                       400    2,000         1,000
Rice (paddy)                              1,600    3,000         4,000
Maize                                       950    3,400         2,000
Sorghum/Millet                              -         -          2,000
Total                                     3,950   14,400        52,000
Compared with estimates of presently marketed quantities, the above indicates
the particular importance of increased commercialization of maize and ground-
nuts, even though the absolute quantities involved are not very large.
Special measures to support the marketing of these two crops would be
introduced under the project (paras 6.11-6.12). Existing arrangements for
paddy and yam marketing would be reinforced (paras 6.09-6.10) but no special
action would be required for cassava, the increased sale of which could be
absorbed through local channels.



- 40 -
C. Marketing Constraints and Proposed Remedies
6.07      The North-East savannah region suffers from a number of particular
marketing problems associated with its isolated position in the country, the
dominance of traditional attitudes and practices amongst a lal- segment
of the population and the previous lack of sustained developmel... efforts.
Specifically, the main constraints to commercialization of agricultural and
livestock production in the project area are as follows:
(a) poor internal communications with many secondary roads
impassable during the rainy season, the paucity of tele-
communications, limited means of transport;
(b) the distance from main centers (viz. Bouna to Abidjan by
road:  600 km, to Bobo-Dioulasso (Upper Volta):  400 km,
to Tamale (Ghana):  300 km);
(c) trading skills and facilities are in the hands of a very
small segment of the local population (Dioula traders)
and farmer cooperative institutions are still inexperienced;
(d)  lack of market information and numeracy amongst most of
the agricultural population;
(e) lack of and unfamiliarity with use of basic marketing
equipment such as covered storage, scales and
pesticides; and
(f) because of (b), (c) and (d), as well as climatic and other
natural factors, extreme unpredictability of crop prices
at the producer level. Livestock are regarded as a more secure
reserve of cash income.
6.08      The proposed project could not provide a complete solution to all
the above problems during the initial five-year project span, which would
require continued efforts over a longer period. However, it would include
specific measures, summarized below, which would constitute a coherent first
step toward marketing improvement, including enhanced competition among
buyers:
(a) a significant improvement to internal communications would
be afforded by the proposed component of road and bridge
improvement (para 3.32);
(b) overall transport costs to Abidjan and Bouake would be reduced
by improving road access to villages so that larger trucks could
be loaded directly at the village level (especially Yams). In
addition, Government confirmed during negotiations that it would
continue upgrading the main road south from Bondoukcu- to Abengourou
(see Map IBRD 14248);



- 41 -
(c) the project would provide technical assistance to the UNIVIBO
and COCOPRAGEL cooperative unions through the attachment of two
qualified Ivorian or expatriate volunteer cooperative agents
to act as paid treasurers (para 6.10);
(d) market information and basic commercial skills would be
disseminated through the GVC (village groups) by six ONPR
cooperative agents as part of their training function
(para 3.31);
(e)  small stores (about 200 m2) would be constructed at six main
villages in the project area. They would be operated by
cooperative agents, in liaison with extension staff, as field
storage for inputs and crops for sale and, at the same time,
as bases for cooperative and commercial training courses
(para 3.30); and
(f) marketing of maize and groundnuts at main villages in the
project area would be assured at previously-announced prices
by CIDT, which would negotiate sales with the SODEPRA ranch
at Ferkessedougou for maize and with the TRITURAF oil mill at
Bouake for groundnuts. Government would reimburse CIDT for
trading losses sustained as a result of excess transport
costs or unusual market conditions, on the basis of an
agreed formula and quantity limit (para 6.13). This could
represent a first step for Government towards introducing a
guaranteed price policy for these two crops. Progress on the
marketing component would be monitored by FTMU and fully
evaluated as part of the proposed mid-term evaluation and
feasibility study to be carried out by consultants in 1983
(para 3.53).
D. Marketing and Prices
6.09       Rice.  Following the dissolution of SODERIZ in October 1977 respon-
sibility for paddy collection and rice milling and distribution was entrusted
to OCPA (Office de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles), a new institu-
tion created by the Ministry of Commerce. At first AGRIPAC was charged
with the task of collecting paddy from villages on behalf of OCPA but this
did not work well (due to AGRIPAC's limited resources and other responsibil-
ities) and from March 1st, 1978, OCPA itself became responsible. However,
since OCPA possesses no trucks in the project area, it has been so far able
to buy paddy only when it is delivered to the rice mill at Bouna or to its
three collection stores at Doropo, Tehini and Bondoukou. OCPA therefore has
bought most (about 70%) of its paddy from traders (65°o) or AGRIPAC (5%°) at
the mill-gate and at the official price of 75 CFAF/kg. Farmers, however,
unless able to hire a truck and organize their own transport of paddy to the
mill, have usually since 1976 received much less than the official farmgate
price of 65 CFAF/kg--only about 40-50 CFAF/kg-- and the few licensed traders
have earned large profits. This situation has discouraged rice growers and
production, which was previously increasing, has fallen back by as much as a
third from its 1975 level (details in Project File). The project would remedy



- 42 -
this situation by providing CIDT with trucks, equipment and personnel for two
mobile paddy buying teams (para 3.30). Due to the lack of physical resources
of OCPA and the extent of its responsibilities in running the Government's
rice mills, CIDT would assume full responsibility for operating paddy buying
markets at all centers of production in the project area, paying the officially
established 1 ices (subject to established grading allowances and cooperative
premiums). Assurances to this effect have been obtained at negotiations.
Private traders would still remain free to operate but would have to compete
with CIDT.
6.10       Yams.  Early yams are the only other crop (apart from paddy) for
which any organized marketing exists in the area. The two cooperative unions
in 1977/78 marketed about 10,000 tons of yams, or about half of the estimated
total amount sold. The cooperatives arrange for yams to be collected and
weighed at one place on a predetermined day, ready for collection by the
buyer/transporter (either private trader or AGRIPAC) who pays a set price
(in 1978, CFAF 30/kg) plus a commission of CFAF 2/kg for the cooperative. In
1978, COCOPRAGEL (Bouna) had 20 village buying points and UNIVIBO (Bondoukou)
had 16. The main difference between the two cooperatives is that UNIVIBO has
formed village precooperative groups (GVC) which share in the profits of the
cooperative, depending on their tonnage, while with COCOPRAGEL there are no
true GVC yet formed and all the profits revert to the central union in Bouna,
whose board determines their disposition. Both cooperatives are receiving
management assistance through periodic visits of ONPR cooperative staff from
Abidjan. This would be strengthened under the project by the attachment of
one full-time ONPR agent to act as treasurer of each of the two cooperatives.
The six cooperative agents in the field would assist in planning a collection
program for yams from the villages, which is actually carried out by AGRIPAC
and private traders. To this end they would form and train about 50 new
village groups (GVC) for yam and other crop marketing by PY5 of the project.
6.11       Maize.  At present, amounts of maize traded in the project area
are small, being estimated at only about 2,000 t/year, or 10 percent of
production. Marketing is essentially limited to local movements from surplus
to deficit villages or families and an erratic supply to the urban market
of Bondoukou (20,000 inhabitants). A wide variability in local maize prices
between years, seasons or localities reflects both the unreliability of maize
harvests and the absence of a well-developed market structure in the area.
In a good season much of the crop is harvested and consumed "green," the
remainder being allowed to dry in the field before being stored in various
types of traditional granary, invariably on the cob. Losses from insect and
mould damage are appreciable. Thus the use of pre-storage dusting of the cobs
with safe insecticides to reduce these losses would be introduced under the
project. Incremental maize production resulting from the project (PY5) is
estimated at 1,000 tons (para 6.02) and in principle 100°o of this may be
considered "marketable", since cereal requirements for subsistence consumption
bv project farmers would be assured by sorghum and millet production. It is
judged that the local trade may not be able to absorb an additional 1,000 tons
of maize (in a "normal" year). However, tne SODEPRA cattle fattening scheme
at Ferkessedougou has an annual potential demand for up to 2,000 tons of
grain, which it is presently unable to obtain or is available only at very
high prices (over CFAF 50 per kg). Therefore CIDT, as project executing
agency, would organize a program of temporary buying markets for maize in
t.'fe main producing areas. Its objective should be to provide support to th'e



- 43 -
market (at a preannounced floor price) rather than to buy a predetermined
tonnage for the account of SODEPRA or other customers at any price, regard-
less of market conditions (i.e. availability of supplies). Since price
security to farmers is the main reason for the proposed intervention, the
floor price should initially be set at a modest level, envisaged at not more
than CFAF 35 per kg in order to avoid distorting local price structures
or incurring excessive costs in price support. A price of CFAF per kg
clean, dry grain is taken as the basis for average farmgate prices assumed in
the farm budgets and economic analysis. After allowing for estimated 15
percent post-harvest storage and shrinkage losses, this corresponds to a unit
value of CFAF 30 per kg of maize grain actually harvested. While less profit-
able than rice where it can be grown, such a guaranteed price for maize should
provide a sufficient incentive for economic increases in production.
6.12      Groundnuts.  Production and trade are presently very limited, esti-
mated at only 3,000 t and 1,000 t respectively (weight in shell). The proj-
ect would aim to develop groundnuts as an important secondary-cash crop,
especially in the northern part of the project area where the sandy soils
lend themselves to groundnut cultivation. However, provision of a guaran-
teed market for farmers is considered indispensable for achieving the expected
rate of adoption. Incremental production by PY6 is forecast at 900 tons,
of which about 80%o, or 700 tons, could be marketed if organized marketing at
an adequate price were assured. About 200 t/year of incremental production
would, it is estimated, be retained for on-farm consumption, since the average
diet is presently limited in availability of vegetable oils apart from sheanut
butter (beurre de karite). A similar quantity (200 t/year) could also be
sold on local markets, at a high price equivalent to CFAF 60/kg in shell at
farmgate. The remaining 500 t/year would require market intervention under
the project, at a floor price estimated at CFAF 45/kg (in shell, farmgate).
This is based on an assumed price of CFAF 80/kg for shelled groundnuts,
in bag, delivered to the TRITURAF oil mill at Bouake. This is the approximate
price for the oil mill at which groundnuts would break-even with cottonseed
in terms of oil extraction and processing costs. Actual sale prices would
have to be negotiated between CIDT and the oil mill. The weighted average
price to the farmer for local sales, on-farm consumption and sales to the oil
mill would thus be CFAF 52/kg (in shell). Allowing for post-harvest losses
estimated at 13 percent, this sales price corresponds to an average unit
value per kg harvested of CFAF 45/kg, which is the price used in the farm
budgets and economic analysis. Assurances have been obtained that CIDT would
ensure the collection of maize and groundnuts at pre-announced floor prices
determined by the Government.
E. Subsidies for Maize and Groundnut Marketing
6.13      For maize, even assuming that a floor price is set somewhat below
average prices ruling for local sales, after adding buying and transport
costs, it is likely that in some years CIDT would incur losses in selling
to SODEPRA or other end-users. Such losses would essentially be the conse-
quence of the need to provide security in an area of unstable prices and of
the additional transport costs involved in procuring grain in the North-East
region. Subsidization of such losses is therefore a necessary cost of devel-
oping maize production over and above subsistence requirements in this region
and reimbursement would be guaranteed to CIDT by the Government. Precise



- 44 -
financial requirements for operating such a support scheme are obviously
difficult to determine in advance. However, on the basis of an average annual
subvention of CFAF 5 per kg of maize marketed by CIDT (corresponding to
estimated primary marketing costs plus excess transport costs), an annual
marketing subsidy of about CFAF 7.75 million (US$37,000) would be required
by PY5. For groundnuts, in view of the high transport costs between the
project area and Bouake, and the high unit costs of organizing the marketing
of an initially small volume, Government would subsidize procurement by CIDT
by an amount sufficient to cover primary marketing, shelling, bagging and
excess transport costs. These are tentatively estimated at CFAF 12/kg of
groundnuts in shell. On this basis the annual subsidy required would be
about CFAF 6.0 million (US$28,000) in PY5. An assurance has been obtained
that Government would arrange for reimbursement to CIDT of any trading
losses incurred in marketing of maize and groundnuts in the project
area, on the basis of annual price schedules (baremes) to be agreed between
CIDT and Government. The proposed marketing subsidy paymeits by Government
would be additional to the amount of government financing of project costs
proposed in Chapter V. This is not likely to pose a financing problem: even
if CIDT were to buy 100 percent of the estimated marketed production of
maize and groundnuts in the Northeast at PY5 (para 6.05), the likely subsidy
required would be only CFAF 38 million (US$180,000), less than 20 percent of
expected annual Government contributions to the project.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Overall Impact
7.01      The North-East savannah region of the Ivory Coast has been a unique
exception to the country's glenerally successful performance in agricultural
and rural development. Most: of its people are both geographically and cul-
turally separated from the rest of the country, retaining traditional links
with the Lobi of south-eastern Upper Volta, and their incomes are both rela-
tively and absolutely low (para 2.07). Previous development efForts, in-
cluding the Kolodio-Bineda resettlement scheme (para 2.14) and the earlier
CFDT attempt at introducing cotton cultivation (para 2.13) have been frag-
mentary and lacked the resources to make a significant impact. The ongoing
livestock project carried out by SODEPRA (para 2.15) is well based but must
be regarded as a long-term activity. The proposed project would therefore
make possible a first effort: at rural development in this region on a scale
capable of bringing about material change in the condition and attitudes
of the rural population. The project would thus be a direct expression of
Government's increased emphasis upon a more equitable regional distribution
of incomes and public services (para 1.06), a policy supported by the Bank.
If successful the project would also support Government's efforts at slowing
down the rate of migration of younger Ivorians from the rural ereas into the
towns (para 1.07).
7.02      However, the proposed project is based not merely on the existence
of evident needs. Technical possibilities for raising output in agriculture,
as in animal production, are also apparent.  An example would be the intro-
duction of short-season maize varieties, as being tested by IITA ir. Upper
Volta, which would be less prone to rainfall variations than the local maize



- 45 -
variety, as well as yielding higher on average. Utilization of the local
N'Dama and Baoule oxen for yam transport and general tillage is another.
At the same time the response of Lobi farmers to market opportunities offered,
for example, by the earlier SODERIZ rice development program in the area
(paras 2.09 and 3.05) and the dynamism of the recently-created cooperative
for yam marketing at Bondoukou (para 2.11) demonstrates that the rural people
are ready for change and willing to respond to opportunities for fuller
employment. The essential task of the project is therefore to provide logis-
tical support and the technical and financial means to prove such opportuni-
ties and demonstrate them to farmers. If farmers' response is sufficiently
positive during this first phase then a larger-scale follow-up project could
be envisaged. This would depend upon the rate of progress revealed by project
monitoring and evaluation (paras 3.46 and 3.42).
B. Project Benefits and their Distribution
7.03      Expected benefits from the project would be both direct and indi-
rect. Direct economic benefits would be: (a) the expected increases in
consumption and sales of foodcrops produced under the three agricultural
production components (paras 3.05-.18); and (b) improved and more stable
farmgate prices for cash crops expected to result from the marketing improve-
ment component (enhanced competition amongst buyers and reductions in costs
of transport and handling due to better roads). All of these direct benefits
would accrue to small farmers in the target group. However, because of
the pilot nature of this first-stage project the number of farmers in the
project area directly affected (about 2,400 by PY5, or 8%) would still be
limited and the absolute size of directly quantifiable benefits is correspond-
ingly modest.
7.04      More important at this pilot stage would be the expected indirect
benefits. These would include (a) the technical knowledge acquired from
applied agricultural research, applicable not only to the North-East but
elsewhere in the savannah regions (paras 3.21-.28); (b) testing and monitoring
the acceptability to farmers of improved cropping methods, both from a tech-
nical and socio-economic point of view (paras 3.16-.18) and for subsequent
replicability; (c) the training of agricultural extension agents, village
group (GVC) officials and small farmers (para 3.19); (d) the development of
local institutions provided by the proposed technical assistance to COCOPRAGEL
and UNIVIBO (para 3.31); (e) introduction of organized marketing at guaranteed
minimum prices for maize and groundnuts, as a test for possible replication
by Government elsewhere in the country (paras 6.11-.12); and (f) improvement
of the rural infrastructure by betterment of about 275 km of rural tracks and
about 40 bridges and provision of clean water supplies in 60 villages (paras
3.32, 3.41). The proposed project would not fully satisfy the needs of the
area in all the above respects but would still represent a valuable beginning.
Successful implementation would permit later replication.
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.05      At present annual average net farm incomes in the project areas
are estimated at between CFAF 80,000 and CFAF 100,000 (US$375-435), requiring



- 46 -
an estimated labor input of between 350 and 400 mandays per year (these
figures exclude time devoted to and income derived from cattle and other
livestock activities). The return per manday worked in traditional agricul-
tural activities averages about CFAF 220 (US$1.00) in the northern part of
the project area (Bouna) and CFAF 275 (US$1.25) in the south (Boundoukou).
As an excep.r n to these averages, however, farmers on the Kpoda irrigated
rice scheme earn net incomes approximately double the average earned in
rainfed agriculture, partly because of the high official price paid for
paddy (CFAF 65/kg), which has generally been enforced for irrigated rice
production, although not for other rice growers (para 6.09).
7.06      As a result of adopting improved seeds, fertilizers and improved
manual cropping methods, and with an increased annual family labor input of
between 30 and 45 percent (which is considered feasible), net annual incomes
for farmers participating in the bottomland and rainfed agriculture components
would be approximately doubled at full development, to between US$770 and
US$970 per year (Table G, page 45). This would imply annual per capita
incomes of about US$110-140. For the 800 farmers whom it is expected would
eventually adopt ox-drawn methods of cultivation, annual production costs
(including debt service of farm equipment) would increase considerably.
However, this would be more than offset by increased returns from the expanded
area cultivated (average 5 ha), producing estimated net annual incomes of
about US$1,200 (rainfed) and US$1,500 (bottomlands). Average returns per
manday in improved manual cultivation would be increased by about 50%O in
rainfed agriculture, and by almost 80°o for bottomland farmers (resulting
partly from an increase in the average area devoted to rice cultivation).
On the Kpoda irrigated scheme returns per manday and per ha would rise by
approximately 50%, as a result of improved water control and increased
cropping intensity (even allowing for introduction of a cost recovery charge
from farmers, para 7.11). For farmers adopting ox-drawn cultivation returns
per manday would be about CFAF 540 (US$2.45) in rainfed agriculture in the
north and CFAF 800 (US$3.60) on bottomlands, representing an improvement over
those obtainable through improved manual cultivation methods of about 701%
and 95°%, respectively. These returns should provide a sufficient financial
inducement to adopt this more costly technology. Model farm budgets, showing
both the traditional (actual) and expected improved situations for bottomland
and irrigated rice and for rainfed agriculture, are shown in Working Paper
1.4 (Project File). Comparative indicators from these budgets are shown in
Table G.
D. Economic Analysis
7.07      Approximately 60% of project costs are related to components whose
main benefits are either difficult to quantify or consist of the acquisition
of knowledge and skills (e.g. improved feeder roads and water supplies,
applied research, training and cooperative and marketing development). This
is considered normal and justified for a project which has many pilot charac-
teristics and whose benefits are primarily indirect. However, the three
directly productive components (bottomiands development, Kpoda rehabilitation
and pilot rainfed agriculture) would be economically justified in themselves.
Economic rates of return on these components have therefore been calculated,
on assumptions given below, and results are presented in Table H.



lVORY COAST
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budget Analysis
Bottomlands        Kpoda              Rainfed Agriculture
Development        Scheme         (North)        (South)
Pre-Project (No. of farmers)                          1,000             240         1,600            600
Gross Annual Production         (CFAF'OOO)            119.7           207.9         110.2          129.1
Production Costs                  "    "               28.5            41.4          27.9           33.0
Debt Service                      It   I               -                0.5          -              -
Net Annual Income                 "    "I              91.3           166.0          82.4           96.1
Family Labor                    (mandays )            399             427           380            348
Net Return/Manday               ( CFAF   )            229             389           217            276
Improved Manual (No. of farmers) 2j                     750             i6o         1,050            600
Gross Annual Production         (CFAF'OOO)            294.7           347.2         240.6          286.7
Production Costs                  "    "               78.5            80.7          69.1           80.1
Debt Service                      "    It               2.6             2.6           2.2            2.5
Net Annual Income                 "    "              213.5           258.9         169.3          204.1
Family Labor                    (mandays )            522             474           526            507
Net Return/Manday               ( CFAF  )             409             546           322            403
Ox-Drawn Cultivation (No. of farmers) 1/                250              80 2/        550             -
Gross Annual Production         (CFAF'OOO)            541.8         1,073.3         466.1           -
Production Costs                  "    "              158.4           355.0         157.8           -
Debt Service                      "    "               46.7             9.9          45.6           -
Net Annual Income                 "    "              336.7           668.5         262.7           -
Famiiily Labor                  (mandays )            423             570           487             -
Net Return/Manday               ( CFAF  )             796           1,173           540             -
1/  At f'ull development. Details in Working Paper no. 1.4.
2/  Farmers using power-tillers, not oxen.



- 48 -
7.08       Assumptions used in the economic analysis of the three produc-
tion components are as follows:
(i) full farm developmnent pattern would be reached in 11 years
(bottomlands), 9 years (Kpoda) and 16 years (rainfed);
(ii) the economic analysis has been made for a period of 16
years, including project start-up costs incurred in PYI;
(iii) family farm labor has been costed at its estimated opportunity-
cost of CFAF 200/manday (bottomlands, rainfed-North), 250
(rainfed-South) and 300 (Kpoda); additional hired labor
(required only on the Kpoda scheme) is costed at the
going market rate of CFAF 500/manday;
(iv) incremental crop production has been valued on the basis
of average local market prices, except for rice, which has
been valued on the basis of parity with imports landed at
Abidjan, the main point of consumption of rice marketed
in Ivory Coast (paras 6.09-.12);
(v) rural track construction and maintenance costs have been
fully costed in the case of bottomlands and Kpoda, and at
50%O of cost for the rainfed component; assuming that the
other 50%O would be offset by benefits to non-project users;
(vi)  costs for each component include their allocated share
of project management overhead costs.  These, like
attributable costs of extension agents, are assumed
to decline by 25%O in PY6-10, by 50%O in PY11-13 and by
75%O in PY14-16, for the rainfed component since main-
tenance at the PY5 level would be required only if the
total number of participating farmers were to increase
during the post-project period;
(vii) costs have been expressed in terms of constant 1979 CFAF,
excluding identifiable taxes and include physical con-
tingencies as in para 5.03; and
(viii)  project costs and benefits have been computed at border
prices by (a) converting all foreign costs to local
currency at the assumed official exchange rate of
CFAF 220 per US$; and (b) converting all local costs
and benefits to border prices by using an estimated
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.83 which reflects
tariff distortions at the border. The same accounting
ratio has been used for the costs of incremental labor.
7.09       Estimated economic rates of return (ERR) and net present values
(NPV) on the above assumptions are shown in Table H.



- 49 -
Table H: Estimated ERR and NPV on Production Components
Bottomlands        Kpoda          Rainfed
Development   Rehabilitation  Agriculture
° of project costs 1/                     14              10              17
Economic rate of return (%0)              24              11              14
NPV at 10°% (CFAF million)               150              50             200
1/   Including attributable shares of project support service and road
construction/maintenance costs.
E. Social Analysis of Project Benefits
7.10      In assessing the impact of the project on reduction of poverty and
on generation of additional savings to the economy, the average level of
consumption is relatively more important than the income distribution within
the project area because farm size and income distribution therein are rela-
tively even (para 2.07). Farmers' income in the northeast falls far below the
national average per capita GDP of US$710 (para 1.03).  Approximately 93%O of
project beneficiaries related to the three agricultural production components
subsist on incomes below the absolute poverty line of US$96 and all of them
earn less than the critical consumption level (CCL) of US$510 1/. If success-
ful the project would lift all beneficiaries out of absolute poverty but most
would still remain below the CCL. In addition, at project maturity (PY15) the
gap between the national average per capita GDP, which is expected to reach
about US$1,850 by that time, and the incomes of project beneficiaries would
have widened in absolute terms. On the above basis, it is expected that the
social returns from the proposed project productive components would be higher
than the economic returns. Thus, from the social desirability point of view
the proposed project appears justified.
F. Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
7.11      There would be little or no directly quantifiable financial return
to Government as a result of implementing the proposed project, apart from
the introduction of a charge on cultivated land to farmers in the Kpoda
irrigated scheme (CFAF 10,000/ha/year; US$48). However, the implicit fiscal
redistribution is in line with Government's policy for regional development
and better income distribution (para 1.05).
1/   Defined as the level at which additional private consumption and addi-
tional public sector income are regarded as equally valuable. In this
case, it is estimated at about 60%o of GDP (US$850) in 1979.



- 50 -
7.12      Direct financial subsidies to project beneficiaries would be limited
to:
(a) costs of assisted land clearing for introduction of
ox-cultivation. Total costs of surveys, equipment
winch teams for clearing a total of some 300 ha
would be CFAF 16.5 million (excluding contingencies),
equivalent to CFAF 54,000 or US$255 per ha cleared.
This is about one-third of the current actual cost
of mechanized land clearing in the north of Ivory
Coast. Farmers would contribute their own labor for
removal of felled trees, but it is considered unfea-
sible during the pilot stage to charge them for land
clearing assistance;
(b) producer subsidies as a result of the Government's rice
price policy. The economic farmgate price for paddy based
on projected world prices is about CFAF 40/kg while the
official purchase price at farmgate level is CFAF 65/kg,
implying a producer subsidy of CFAF 25/kg paddy purchased.
There is an additional subsidy of the consumer price involved
in meeting losses incurred in milling and distribution,
estimated at CFAF 17/kg of paddy purchased. Total Government
subsidies for rice procurement, milling and distribution at
the national level are estimated to be of the order of
CFAF 5.5 billion (US$25 million) annually, excluding costs
of the temporary fertilizer subsidy program for irrigated
rice. Incremental subsidy amounts due to the project would
be only about CFAF 75 million (US$0.4 million) per year at
PY6 (based on an incremental marketed production of 2,000 t
paddy), or less than 2% of the annual total; and
(c) start-up marketing subsidies to project maize and groundnut
producers, which are estimated at only CFAF 16.2 million
(US$77,000) per year on the basis of expected project
marketed production at PY6 (1,550 tons maize, 700 tons
groundnuts) (paras 6.11-.12). This subsidy, equivalent to
about 15% of average local market prices, would permit CIDT
to introduce pre-announced minimum buying prices for these
two crops in the project area, which are presently suscept-
ible to large temporal and spatial price variation, and to
offset additional transport costs incurred by CIDT in
marketing produce from the North-East. The introduction of
a floor price system would be required for the first-stage
efforts at developing maize and groundnut production in the
area, and the small volumes initially involved would justify
the provision for some subsidy on marketing. The subsidy
could be eliminated eventually when the amounts traded
increased to a level where unit costs were sufficiently
reduced.



- 51 -
These three subsidy elements to project beneficiaries are relatively small
in overall fiscal terms and within Government's financing ability. They are
considered necessary for project implementation and justified in terms of
relative income criteria. Direct cost recovery would be introduced for
farmers on the Kpoda irrigated rice scheme (para 7.11). The question of rice
marketing and prices is currently the subject of a dialogue with Government
and is expected to be one of the first problems to be studied by the newly-
created CRCPV (para. 3.54). While the situation remains in many ways
unsatisfactory, it is considered inequitable to hold up a development which
could benefit a number of the poorest rice farmers in the Northeast region.
The Bank has also indicated to Government that the present 100% subsidy on
fertilizers for irrigated rice production (para 3.12) is unnecessarily costly
and recommended that it should be discontinued. Only about 240 project
farmers, however, would benefit from the 100°o fertilizer subsidy.
G. Project Risks
7.13      The project has, in several aspects, a pilot character and would be
susceptible to risks of various kinds.  First, there are technical risks
that the applied research program would not bring about acceptable results
during the project period. However, the project would devote ample resources
to this aspect (27°o of project costs), both in the North-East and elsewhere
in the savannah zones, and research programs would be designed to maximize
the chances of success of this component. Moreover, basic techniques for
improving rice and upland crop production and introducing ox-traction
are already known, thus ensuring the validity of the pilot productive com-
ponents based on these techniques. Second, there is the socio-economic
aspect, namely that of developing the confidence of farmers in the North-East,
most of them illiterate, to adopt changed methods of agriculture. This would
involve the training of an extension force which can communicate effectively
with the Lobi farmers, many of whom have had limited outside contacts.
However, CIDT would have the capacity to execute an appropriate training
program under the project. Finally, there are the commercial risks involved
in developing marketable crop production in a distant area poorly served by
communications. The marketing and rural track improvement components of the
project are aimed at countering these risks.
7.14      Because of these risks the project has been designed as a first-
phase action with an important pilot element, one of the aims of which would
be to reduce risks under possible future follow-up projects in the North-East.
There are sufficient grounds for believing that this first effort will be
successful and will permit later replication and continued development.



- 52 -
VIII. ASSURANqCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01       Government, CIDT and the Bank have agreed on a plan of action
which provides that:
(i) not later than September 30, 1980, CIDT would enter
into operational agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
with each of the f"ollowing institutions concerned with pro-
ject execution: :[DESSA (para. 3.28); ONPR (para. 3.31);
DCH and Ministry of Public Works (paras. 3.35 and 3.45);
(ii) not later than March 31, 1980, CIDT would submit to the Bank
for approval the applied research and field trials program
and budget for PY.L. For each year thereafter, CIDT would
submit, not later than September 30, of the preceding year,
the corresponding annual implementation program and budget
to the Bank for approval (para. 3.28);
(iii)  with respect to the rural tracks component:
(a)  not later than December 31, 1980, MPW would submit
a detailed inventory of the bridges and culverts to
be constructed under the proposed project for approval
by the Bank (para. 3.35);
(b) not later than September 30, 1980, CIDT would submit
to the Bank for approval the list of access tracks to
be improved in PY2 and the related work program and budget.
For each year thereafter, CIDT would submit, not later
than September 30 of the preceding year, the list of
tracks to be improved, as well as the related work
program and budget, to the Bank for approval (para. 3.37);
(c)  CIDT's annual budgets would include adequate provision
for the proper maintenance of the access tracks improved
or to be improved under the project (para. 3.39);
(iv)  with respect to the village water supply component:  not later than
March 31, 1981, C]DT would submit to the Bank for approval the list
of villages in the project area where wells and boreholes would be
constructed as well as the proposed budget (para. 3.45);
(v)  with respect to training:  CIDT would prepare and submit to
the Bank for approval not later th,n December 31, 1980 a
four-year program covering all training activities under the
proposed project (para. 3.20); and
(vi)  Government confirms that it plans to continue upgradirng
the main road south from Bondoukou to Abengourou (para. 6.08).



- 53 -
8.02      Assurances have also been obtained that:
(i)  with respect to project staffing:
(a)  CIDT would appoint or cause to be appointed to all the key
positions listed in para. 4.05, and for the duration of the
project, staff with qualifications and experience as required
for the execution of the proposed project;
(b)  all key project staff would be employed by CIDT under
terms of reference and having qualifications and experi-
ence acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.05);
(ii)  with respect to credit for farm inputs and equipment:
(a)  BNDA would provide sufficient funds to finance credit to
farmers, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 5.07);
(iii)  with respect to project accounts:
(a)  project accounts would be established, kept and audited
and submitted to the Bank as specified in para. 5.15; and
(b)  expenditures covering disbursements under Category V
of the loan, Project Operating Expenses, would be audited
as specified in para. 5.16;
(iv)  with respect to marketing:
(a)  CIDT would ensure the collection of paddy rice in the project
area, paying the officially established prices (subject to
established grading allowances and cooperative premiums)
(para. 6.09);
(b)  CIDT would ensure the collection of maize and groundnuts
in the project area at preannounced floor prices (para. 6.12);
(c)  Government would arrange for reimbursement to CIDT of any
trading losses incurred in marketing of maize and groundnuts
in the project area, on the basis of annual price schedules
(baremes) to be agreed between CIDT and Government (para.
6.13);
(v)  with respect to project financing:
(a)  Under the terms of the Convention to be agreed between Govern-
ment and CIDT, Government would transfer to CIDT, by March 31
of each year, an adequate amount of working capital for
implementing the project (para. 5.09);



- 54 -
(b) Government would provide the necessary funds from other
sources on conditions consistent with its obligations under
the project, in case the CE/FAC annual tranches (1980-83)
were not contracted on time (para. 5.06); and
(vi)  h '  respect to studies:
(a) the Government would submit to the Bank for approval by
October 31, 1982, the draft terms of reference of a mid-term
evaluation study; the results of the evaluation would be
reviewed by the Government and the Bank by September 30, 1983,
before a feasibility study of a follow-up project is under-
taken; and the terms of reference of the feasibility study
would be furnished to the Bank for approval (para. 3.53);
and
(b)  the Government would agree with the Bank on the terms of
reference for studies to be undertaken by the Comite de Reflexion
and for project preparation (para. 3.56). The Comite's reports
would be discussed with the Bank during project supervision and
in the context of preparation of future projects (para. 3.55).
8.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(i) Government and CIDT had signed a Convention on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.01);
(ii) CIDT had employed and in post the Project Manager and
the Senior Research Officer (para. 4.05); and
(iii) the CE/USAID Loan Agreement had become effective (para. 5.05).
8.04      Under the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$9.4 million.



ANWEX I
Table I
IVORY ODAST
NORTH-EAST SAVAIJNAR RURAL DEvEflEMT PROJECT
Annual Proiect Coats
(CFAF ' 000)
(including contingenries)
Cou,ponenet                                     pl           PY2           PY3           PY4           PY5          -     Total --------   -------- Taxes --        -  ----  Pore ign
CFAF'OOO      US$'000 D                    Total          Z           Total
1. Bottomlands Development                                             18,842       20,259        21,567       45,902       106,570          507           5             5,098        6            6,861
2. Epoda Irrigation Scheme Rehabilitation                24,354        58,826       38,249        29,791       32,760       183,980          8?6          11           19,445        37           67,438
3. Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Scheme                                   43,045        61,226        96,486      117,662       318,419        1,516           5            15,373        3            8,701
4.  Incremeatal Farm inputs & Equipmaent                               14,419       28,827        35,990        67,488      146,723          699           4            5,553        57           83,326
5/6. Applied Reseatch & Field Trials                      238,818      216,953       230,236       256,813      260,783    1,203,603         5,732           7           78,957        26          315,794
7  Tcraining                                             21,348       17,717        19,066        22,446       21,555       102,132          486          8             7,995        19           19,876
8. Crop marketing & Cooperative Development              20,602        64,225       61,150        69,397        74,645      290,019        1,381          11           33,065        48          140,035
9. Rural Roads                                           11,781       201,185      119,816       143,852      113,884       590,518        2,812          13           78,646        44          259,889
10. Village lWater Supply                                             131,164       143,987         4,648        4,956       284,755        1,356          14           39,865        60          171,844
11. ProJect Support Services                             164,121       124,453      134,230       155,436      152,452       730,692        3,479           6           42,941        38          280,505
12. Studies and Surveys                                  118,842       40,058        43,262        46,290      135,600       384,052        1,829          7            27,526        79          302,417
13. WUnitoring and Evaluation                                          20.481        18.536        28.530       21.667        89.214          425           7            5,801        19           17,364
TOTAL PROJECr C0STS                                 599,866       951,368      918,844       911,246    1,049,354    4,430,677        21,101           8          360,265        38        1,674,050
(IJS$'000)                                  2,857        4,530         4,375        4,339         4,997        21,098                                     1,716                      7,972
Revised 1125/80



IVORY CODAST                                                        ANNEX 1
Table 3
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVEIOPMENT PFlJECT
Incremental Farm Inputs and Equipeint - Revolving Credit Fund
(CFAF' 00)
- Total --------   -------- Taxes --------   ------- Foreign -------
PY1            PY2            PY3            PY4           PY5        CFAF'OOO        US$'000          %            Total             %            Total
1. Seasonal Inputs 1/
Annual total cost                                       10,459         22,773        34,966         55,078      123,276
Inflation factor                                         1,221          1,325         1,424          1,524
Annual costs (current)                                  12,770         30,174        49,792         83,939      176,675
+ 5% physical contingency                                  639          1.509          2.490         4,197         8,834
Total costs                                             13,409         31,683        52,282         88,136      185,509
Repayments 2/                                             -             9,848        23.268         38,396       71,512
Net Finance Required                                    13,409         21,835        29,014         49,740      113,997             543          2            2,280            53           60,418
(a) Farmers                                              2,682         6,337         10,456         17,627       37,102
(b) BNDA                                                10,727        15,498         18,558         32,113       76,895
2. Farm Equipment 1/
Annual total cost                                          788          5,201         6,000         13,694        25,683
Inflation factor                                         1,221          1,325         1,424          1,524
Annual cost (current)                                      962          6,891         8,544         20,870        37,267
+ 5% physical contingency                                    48           345            427         1.044         1.863
Total costs                                              1,010          7,236         8,971         21,914       39,130
Repayments 2/
(credit PY2)                                                              244           244            244
(credit Py3)                                                                          1,751          1,751
(credit PY4)                                                                                         2.171        6,405
Net Finance Required                                     1,010          6,992         6,976         17,748       32,726             156         10             3,273           70           22,908
to be financed by:
(a) Farmers                                                202         1,447          1,794          4,382        7,826
(b) BNDA                                                   808         5,545          5,182         13,366       24,900
3.  Financing Summary                                       14,419         28,827        35,990         67,488      146,723             699          4             5,553           57           83,326
(a) Farmers                                              2,884         5,765          7,198         13,498       29,345
(b) BNDA                                                11,535        23,062         28,792         53,990      117,378
1/ Quantities and prices detailed in Project File.
2/ Corresponding to 80% of cost, plus 8% interest charge; farmers would contribute 207 of cost as cash down-payments for both seasonal inputs and equipment.
Seasonal credit repaid in full during marketing season in year of use. Credit for equipment repayable in four equal annual installments following year
of purchase. Interest equivalent to 87 on both seasonal and medium term credit. Provision made for default rate (non-recoverable) at 15% of seasonal credit
amounts due; farm equipment loans are secured and therefore assumed 100% repaid.
Revised 1/25/80



ANNEX I
IVORY COAST                                                            Table 2
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Financing Plan
(CFAF million)
Estimated          Foreign
Total              US$               Taxes            Exchange
PY1                PY2              py3               Py4               py5             Project            1,OOO            (CFAF mn)          (CFAF mn)
(A) Total Project Costs                                  600                951               919               911         1,049                  4,431           Z1,100            360             1,674
(B) Incr. Farm Inputs & Equipment:
(Annex I, Table 3)                                _                      14                29                36             67                   146              695              6                83
1/
(C) USAID/Gov't parallel financing:
(a) Civil works:
- Kpoda scheme                            (19)   24          (14)   17                                                                (33)   41               195             8                 21
- Applied research                        (97)  118                                                                                   (97)  118               562            21                 61
- Training center                         (11)   13                                                                                   (11)   13                62              2                 7
- Village water                                             (113)  131        (122)  142                  5             5            (235)  285             1,356            40                172
- Project buildings                       (47)   59                                                                                   (47)   59               281            12                30
(b) Vehicles & equipment:
- Roads construction                                        (156)  183                                                               (156)  183               871            27                195
(c) Local staff salaries:
- Applied research                        (30)   32         (141)  148         (27)  159               169            180            (198)  688            3,276             34                  0
Subtotal                       (204)  246         (424)  479        (149)  301                174           185            (777)1,385    (3,700)6,595             144                486
(D) IBRD parallel financing:                                                                                                                                                                                     ,
Consultants (BETPA)                                    10                40                43                46             50                   190              900             -                190
(E) IBRD/FAC/Gov't pari passu:                           344                418               546               655            747                 2,710           12,905            210               915
to be financed by:
IBRD (65.97)                                         227                225               360               431           492                  1,785            8,500             -                603
FAC (10.9%)                                           37                 46                59                72             81                   295            1,400             -                100
Government (23.27.)                                   80                 97               127               152            174                   630            3,000            210               212
(F) Summary by source:
Farmers                                                                   3                 6                 7             13                    29              140              1                14
BNDA                                                                     11                23                29             54                   117              560              5                70
USAID/CE                                             204                424               149               -              -                     777            3,700             -                480
FAC/CE                                                37                 46                59                72             81                   295            1,400             -                100
IBRD                                                 237                315               403               477           542                  1,975            9,400             -                800
Government                                           122                152               279               326           359                  1,238            5,900            354               210
Total                                  600                951               919               911         1,049                  4,431          21,100            360              1,674
Revised
1/bracketed figures shaw USAID part, corresponding to net-of-tax costs.                                                                                                        1/28180



- 58 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 4
IVORY COAST
NORTH-EAST SAVANNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
Bank fiscal year                                Disbursements -----
and quarter                              Quarterly        Cumulative
FY 81
I
II
III                                          200             200
IV                                           200             400
FY 82
I                                            260             660
II                                           300             960
III                                          300           1,260
IV                                           300           1,560
FY 83
I                                            300           1,860
II                                           380           2,240
III                                          400           2,640
IV                                           400           3,040
FY 84
I                                            400           3,440
II                                           430           3,870
III                                          450           4,320
IV                                           480           4,800
FY 85
I                                            700           5,500
II                                           700           6,200
III                                          800           7,000
IV                                           800           7,800
FY 86
I                                            800           8,600
II                                           800           9,400
Completion Date: 3/30/85
Closing Date: 12/31/85



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
IVORY COAST
NORTH-EAST SAVANNNAH RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Working Papers
1.1 Bottomiland Development
1.2 Rehabilitation of the Kpoda Irrigation Scheme
1.3 Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Scheme
1.4 Farm and Crop Development (Agronomy) and Farm Budgets
1.5 Training
1.6 Applied Research and Field Trials
1.7 Rural Tracks
1.8 Landsat Study - Terms of Reference
1.9 Key Project Staff - Terms of Reference
1.10 Monitoring and Evaluation
1.11 The Lobi - Social Organization and Directions of Change
1.12 Crop Marketing and Prices
2. Reports on the Project
2.1 Preparation Report. Main Text; 7 Annexes; Maps, BETPA, April 1978
2.2 CIDT Annual Reports (various years)



IVOIIY COAST
NOHTII-- LAST SAVANNA1h  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CIDT OrganograIuI
19-70i)
MANAGiING WiIIftG-
I
DLItJI Y MANAGING
| DHECIOH
NA L                          IPRO,DUCTION MANAGE                                            FUNCTiGNAI
INDUSIIAL  ALf                     INANCIAt MANAGEtH                 IFIELO SEHVICESI                   SUti-MANAGEHS
-TRAINING
E .XTENSiON
LIVESTOCK
MECHIANIZATION
MANAGEMtAENT STATISTICS
|GlNNt(IIIS  | |  GAIiAGES       IHANUPt)llT    C°NSTHUCIItN                                                              - FIELD TRIALS & MONITORING
KOHIIl(G)0i      UOJAKE
UOtJNtI)ALI      KIII(tiOG_
MANKONO
LIOtAK t  _A_l_                                                     l
OUANG(iLO N)                                                                           COTADIN
~ .~I M.~u~:  VIJIENNE   LICUNWiALi         LHIG            MANKONO
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKN                                                         -_YAMOUSSOUR
F,.le l   SIENhO l-RGI iL A                        KOUIIlOGO N      TOUUJA                            NIAKAR               l
tIiLNNL       Ul)tUNA           KOIIlUliGt S     SEGUELA                          KATIOt-i
MAIIINANI     CJON              I LlKE           KANI            * GUMA N         OFEMEC
ZANGiJINASSO     NILLt IS         mORIJNI)O          GtlMA S.       HOUAKE         YAMLUSSOUKRO
KASStIit         MUiINGUE         DIANRA                          MfAHIAKfO
.SANItAt A                        MANK()NO                         ftONGOUANOU
lit tJNI)iALI                    IlltNlitBOUt                       IJOUAFLE
W, l I  fbw'k - 2ti20tt



IBRD 13826
This~ map has bee Prepared by tee0                                   L                    To Gooua                         5MRH17
World hacks~ stff -orioirsy f~               45                                                                                                                                                                   MARCHI    T    ACOAS
hndariteps,  show so ~ this mpBti6                                                                                                                              NORTHEAST  SAVANNAH
asy tsrttsrr uS asy edsrssases,RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
Logbo                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA LIMITS
U  TRAINING CENTER
A  APPLIED RESEARCH  AND)
FIELD TRIAL SITES
er                                                                                                                        B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTTOMLAND  DEVELOPMENT
RAINFED AGRICULTURE -PILOT SCHEME
Kp6r        Tantota-
IRRIGATED KPODA SCHEME
assion                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUDANIAN  ZONE
-. Savannaih witl treesaand tih-cb
~ihPanicus, phr gnnitoides--
Bosirta    Nianda  -               SUB-SUDANIAN ZONE
z~~ ~~____  --wWooded savannoh & high forest
K: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~O    m  E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~with Isoberlinia dokou..-k22i
GUINEAN ZONE
Savannah with trees and shruobs
L........J with Panic.m  phragmitoides
-9.                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ania  tn                              i  NATIONAL PARK
-ALL-WEATHER GRAVEL I'OADS
DRY-SEASON GRAVEL ROADS
DRY -SEASON EARTH ROADS
Bouna   ADMINISTRATIVE  HEADQUARTERS
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Koutoub                                                     R~~~~~~~~~~~~ADIIVESTAIELMS
amo                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 20     40             60
KILOMETERS
nhui  'Y6,                                                  ~~~~~~~~~UPPER
Pona                                           z     -z                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kong Bo nt,
Dvongne                    .~e~                                                                  V      R
Dinaou i                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bondoukou
G    m6614,        r6bo i                                         Wakolo                                                                   Man 0~~T Aidan________________________






BRD 14248
IVORY COAST
NORTHEAST SAVANNAH                           ~
RURAL DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                          '                                                                       APPLIED RESEARtCH AND FIELD TRIAL SITED
PROPOSED CIDT APPLIED RESEARCH AND FIELD TRIAL SITES                                                                            ITT  RPSDDRE
I~~~.>  Mr~~~~~'~~-2>  A  Lt~~~~~~~  a                                      R~~~~~  DEPRTMIENTAL  CAPITALS
INTERNATIONAL BOINDARIES
5                       /     A~~~~~~~~~~b-n                               tN._UPPER    VOLTA
A3ODIENNF  NDAU BOL0)                      '~~~~~ FFRKESSEDOUOOJU
A.-  KORI-IOGO®                              'N                 ~~~~~~~~BOUNA®
z                 >'~~.Vrho~t                                                                                                                       A         <h
C"~~~'t.f\ (  TO     A   \                                                                                                A~~~~~CTO
O                  V                               TIenIgboudo  ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AQKATIOLA
SEGUELA'  0                     "           Ec                                                RONDOUKOU          C
B'~~~~~~~~0  "AMANKONyQ                                                                                  -- Y/½.KH
(EBIANKOUMA,/®OAE'y
DANAREMA                                                                             Dr
BanyAn     - \ DALCA             BOA??Dnro                                                                   .
J  DadRaud   I ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    D.
GUIGLO    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                             T--nnrnd
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 B~~~~y-                                    j          -                         Akalpd
IL            .                       aDj ADA~~~    ~      ~~~~~~~~~~NOA  T.aba
0                /~~~~~~ INd.u6~R
-                           \         LokotO0cs.b'  C  (%V           0      ADDDVILLE
_'4SASSANDRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D IS
GuH  :of  r, vin* DeCo       DinyiI
Ay F  RAII   rt' A,'- 
I                      -0                                                                                    -&.~~~~~~I  -  S
DrnAto                    Aro0An Atoo~>
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
(   I   ~~~~l       0Dreoal B.odAV   ~~~~~J                                                --------------                neAoe'ARR



