f--     LOAN NUMBER 1827 IVC
OFFIC.AL
DOC!MENaTS
Project Agreement
(North-East Savannah Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPAGNIE IVOIRIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES TEXTILES
Dated                             ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1827 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     H       0 1             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and COMPAGNIE IVOIRIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
DES TEXTILES (hereinafter called CIDT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
nine million four hundred thousand dollars ($9,400,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that CIDT agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower
and CIDT, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to CIDT on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CIDT, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CIDT shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agre7ment, except for the construction of
bridges and culverts on the access tracks and roads included in


﻿-2-
Part F, the studies included in Part I of the Project and Part L
of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural practices and in accordance with a plan of action
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. In order to assist CIDT in the preparatory work
required for the construction and rehabilitation of access tracks
and roads included as Part E of the Project, CIDT shall employ
engineering experts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CIDT undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by CIDT to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CIDT shall
use, or cause to be used, all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) CIDT shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) CIDT: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿-3-
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CIDT and the
Bank, CIDT shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
CIDT and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(d) CIDT shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of CIDT and any relevant records and documents which
they may reasonably request to examine.
Section 2.06. CIDT shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Convention. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
CIDT shall not take any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Convention or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) CIDT shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Convention and other matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Loan.
(b) CIDT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by CIDT of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Convention.
Section 2.08. CIDT shall assist Participating Farmers in
accordance with the terms and conditions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CIDT
Section 3.01. (a) CIDT shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) CIDT shall operate and maintain its equipment and
property, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and
repairs thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
aad agricultural practices.
Section 3.02. CIDT shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the future expansion of its operations and maintain its
financial position, all in accordance with appropriate business,
financial and agricultural principles and practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.03. CIDT shall employ or ensure the employment,
until the completion of the Project, of agricultural experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to fill the following key
Project positions:
(a) Project Manager;
(b) Two Zone Heads;
(c) Senior Training Officer;
(d) Senior Research Officer;
(e) Agriculturist for the Applied Research Unit to be
created under the Project; and
(f) Cooperatives Supervisor.
Section 3.04. CIDT shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.05. CIDT shall ensure the collection of paddy rice
in all centers of production in the Project Area, paying the
official farmgate price established by the Borrower subject to
grading allowances and cooperatives' premia.
Section 3.06. CIDT shall ensure the collection of maize and
groundnuts in the main centers of production in the Project Area
in order to provide support to the market at  pre-announced floor
prices as determined by the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CIDT shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Without limitation to the foregoing, it shall keep separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures described in Categories (1),
(3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) CIDT shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. CIDT shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any ca.se not later than
six months after the end of each such year (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure have been used for the


﻿-6-
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of CIDT and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of CIDT thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify CIDT thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CIDT:
Compagnie Ivoirienne pour
le Developpement des Textiles
B.P. 622
Bouake
Ivory Coast
Cable address:
CIDETEX
B.P. 622
BOUAKE R.C.I.
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CIDT may be taken or executed by its
Directeur General or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and CIDT shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterpa' 's, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHIEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-8-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
COMPAGNIE IVOIRIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
DES TEXTILES
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A    International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C and/or E hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, CIDT shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. CIDT shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, contracts for the purchase of vehi-
cles and equipment shall be grouped for purposes of bidding so as
to permit bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on a
c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on an ex-factory basis,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to CIDT of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿-10 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast may be granted a margin of preference in accord-
ance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such gmods
includes a value added in the Ivory Coast equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 11 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for:
(i) the construction of storage spaces included in
Part D of the Project; and
(ii) the construction of bridges and culverts on the
access tracks and roads included in Part F of the
Project;
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, on the
basis of locally advertised competitive bidding.
2.   Goods estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent but
less than $100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank, on the basis of locally advertised com-
petitive bidding; provided, however, that the aggregate amount of
all contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed $200,000 equiva-
lent.
3.   Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less may
be procured under negotiated contracts after solicitation of
quotations from at least three reliable manufacturers or sup-
pliers; provided however, that the aggregate amount of all con-
tracts to be so awarded shall not exceed $600,000 equivalent.
4.   Satellite imagery for the survey included in Part I of the
Project may be procured through direct negotiated purchase.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 12 -
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, CIDT shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CIDT
ghall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform CIDT and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, CIDT shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform CIDT and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 13 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, CIDT shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform CIDT and state the reasons for its
determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Land clearing work and the construction or rehabilitation and
maintenance of access tracks and roads may be carried out through
use of force account by CIDT.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Input and Credit Distribution
to Participating Farmers
1.   CIDT shall assist Participating Farmers to determine their
input requirements, distribute inputs and supervise their uti-
lization.
2.   CIDT shall ensure the supply of fertilizer and pesticides for
food crops, maize, rice and groundnut seed, and ox-drawn farm
equipment.
3.   CIDT may extend credit to Participating Farmers. Such credit
shall be extended under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.   CIDT shall rent equipment for rice farming, such as power
tillers and rice threshers, to Participating Farmers at a rate set
to cover its cost of purchasing and maintaining such equipment
(about CFAF23,600 in 1979 prices per hectare of utilization).
I


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this cZz      dayofJ        , 1980
FOR SECRETARY


