- ,    -
Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
c&'- 229 -so
Repot No. P-6095-BO
NEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 30.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
MUNICIPAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 5, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6095 BO
Type: MOP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv rucipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Bolivianos (Bs)
Exchange Rate Effective as of October 1993
US$ 1.00 = Bs 4.40
Bs 1.00 = US$0.23
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MOF         -            Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MHD         -            Ministry of Human Development
SUD         -            MHD's Secretariat of Urban Development
FNDR        -            Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional
MDI         -            Municipal Development Institute
RDC         -            Regional Development Corporation
IDB         -            Inter-American Development Bank
CAP         -            Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento
FONPLATA  -              Fondo Financiero para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
MUNICIPAL SECTOR DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:                 Ministry of Human Development (MHD), Fondo Nacional
de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR), municipalities and their
utilities
Credit Amount:                 SDR 30.1 million (US$42 million equivalent), including
US$1.5 million PPF Advance
Terms and conditions:          Standard IDA terms and conditions
Financing Plan Project:        IDA          US$42.0 million
FNDR        US$ 9.7 million
Government US$ 6.3 milln
Total       US$ 58.0 million
Economic Rate of Return:       Over 12%, when applicable
Poverty Category:              Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report No.:     11996-BO
Maps:                          IBRD 24920 - 24921
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIf TO IHE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVA
FOR A MUNICIPAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum on a proposed development credit
to the Republic of Bolivia for SDR 30.1 million, the equivalent of US$42 million, on standard
International Development Association (IDA) terms with a maturity of 40 years. The credit
would help finance a Municipal Sector Development Project to improve municipal management
and resource allocation for municipal investment projects, particularly in disadvantaged regions
and to the benefit of poor urban populations. Part of the proceeds of the credit, in an expected
amount of approximately US$20 million, would be on-lent to Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
Regional (FNDR) on the same terms and conditions as the IDA credit to Bolivia. The Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), the Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (CAF), the Fondo
Financiero para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata (FONPLATA) and the Japanese
Government would also support FNDR's lending activities, through additional financing.
PART L COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
The Goal: Reducing Poverty
2.    By any reasonable standard, most Bolivians are poor. They are poor in terms of income:
per capita GDP is less than US$680 and not equitably distributed. They are poor as well in
terms of basic necessities: half or more of the population lacks access to clean water, adequate
sanitation and basic health care; the coverage and especially the quality of public education are
low and deteriorating. The consequences are an infant mortality rate (92 per 1,000 live births)
nearly double the regional average and a population more than half of which is functionally
illiterate. Standards of living for most Bolivians will rise only through a significant acceleration
in, and equitable distribution of, econcmic growth and a significant improvement in levels and
quality of social services. 'Che strategy outlined below is a practical means of achieving and
sustaining these two fundamental goals of development as quickly as possible. Its cornerstones
are a series of second-generation reforms that will restructure and redirect the role of the state
and a reform of the country's education system that will give all Bolivians access to good quality
basic education.
3.    The current Government, which took office in August 1993, is carrying out an
imaginative and radical reform program, which, if successful, will transform the country. It
intends to foster private and social investment by withdrawing the state from productive activities
as well as strengthening its capacity to make policy, regulate, enforce laws, and execute social
programs. An overarching theme is the incorporation of the country's poor indigenous majority,
which has in large part been excluded from the opportunities afforded by past economic growth
and stability, into the economic mainstream. These reforms offer the best hope of shortening
the country's development path by accelerating economic growth, and by freeing up resources
to fund expanded programs in education, basic health, potable water and sanitation.



- 2 -
A. Recent Economic and Social Performance
4.    Bolivia launched and sustained profound political and economic reform in the last eleven
years. During this period, democratic institutions succeeded in replacing an unpredictable
political environment, and economic reform brought stability and modest growth. Bolivia
nevertheless remains a country of untapped potential, yet to take full advantage of its endowment
in land, mineral, hydrocarbon and human resources.
5.    One of the Latin American pioneers in free market-based reform, Bolivia has gained solid
economic ground during tne past eight vears. Intlation fell from stratospheric levels in 1985 to
ab-ut 10% in 1993, and growth accelerated gradually to close to 4% annually in. the last two
years (see Figure 1). Despite these positive signs, the economic system remains fragile
(see Figure 2). Declining terms of trade and rising import volume weakened the balance of
payments position during the last six years, and the current account deficit widened from 8.5%
to an estimated 13.2% of GDP between 1989 and 1993. The most serious problems were drops
in tin and natural gas prices, mitigated only slightly by robust growth in nontraditional exports
Fig. 1: Potv Reult|
Indlaion RateG                         s1&
__w__ _   __                          RmW    RgPs
5.0 l
1lo
14 16 152 17.1 2M 1±1
t1~~~~~~~~~4     .1X..............................
IN is In  is  1isi1m =l_              19o7 19  19n   1i90 191 192



F192: But Some Romaining Problems
Balance of Payments                Consolidated Fiscal Deficit
Ctie AOcou De* ,.1t                      A Pent of DP
12. GD    1.1.20 0
10.0                                  40
1985 1987 198 198 1990 1991 1992    .19  181M199  11IN
1I/ Bdoeofe! dal m                            Private Investment
Gross National Savings (as % of GDP)         , ,        d GDP)
-4
1988 1987 1988 1989 1990 19S11 1992  1985 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1S99Z
| Conltbined Public Sectr E§Pdate Sector|_
(gold, zinc, soya, timber and manufactured f,oods) and partly offset by illegal coca exports. The
deficit of the nonfinancial public sector increased from 4.7% of GDP during 1992 to a projectd
6.6% of GDP in 1993, a level more than double the original 1993 IMF target. Public sector
savings remain quite low (3% of GDP in 1993), especially given that the main productive and
infrastructure sectors are still dominated by the state. The benefits of tax reform have been
constrained by slow improvements in tax administration, and YPFB, the state-owned enterprise
which controls the hydrocarbons sector, still accounts for about half of total government
revenues.
6.    Although there are encouraging signs of increased private sector confidence, such as the
rapid increase in bank deposits, the private investment rate remains low (about 6% of GDP in
1992), even relative to historical levels. There are several reasons for tkis cautious response on
the part of the private sector. Perhaps most importantly, state enterprises continue to play a
monopolistic role in the two most important productive sectors, mining and hydrocarbons. The
"rules of the game" in these sectors are less attractive than those prevailing in many other
countries with similar resource endowments. In addition, the last Government's attitude toward
an increased role for private investors was ambivalent, as demonstrated by the failure of the
negotiations for private lithium development and by persistent delays in the negotiations of joint
venture for state-owned mining properties.



- 4 -
7.    Systemic problems also affect Bolivia's attractiveness to investors. An archaic and poorly
functioning legal/judicial system creates an unpredictable environment and adds to perceived
risk. Weak and sometimes corrupt public institutions at national and municipal levels increase
the cost of doing business through cumbersome regulations and procedures. For those of wealth
or political clout, these barriers are easily surmounted; for the average Bolivian, they lower the
returns to entrepreneurship, risk-taking, and hard work. The result has beeii growth that
benefited mainly the rich. Legal and institutional reforms are needed to level the playing field
not only between the public and private sectors, but also between large-scale and small-scale
entrepreneurs within the private sector. Such reforms are essential for a private-sector-led
strategy that both raises growth and improves equity.
8.    Difficulties in reaching agreement, both within the Government coalition and in the larger
society, delayed the progress of economic reform during the past four years. In the last 18
months, however, a pragmatic consensus among the major political parties has emerged
concerning the need to reduce and rationalize the role of the state and to move the social agenda
forward. The consensus and the commitment of the current Government to bring about radical
restructuring of the economy provide a unique opportunity to attack the remaining barriers to
investment and growth.
B. The External Environmert
9.    The external environment confronting Bolivia is difficult in several respects. First, the
country has experienced a painful decline in the terms of trade (almost 50% decline between
1980 and 1990) as prices for its main export commodities (gas, tin, other minerals) have
plummeted. Export diversification (nontraditional minerals such as gold, wood and wood
products, leather, flowers, and soya) have mitigated the ill effects somewhat, but dependence
on a few basic commodities still constitutes a major source of economic fragility. Second, the
circumstances of neighboring countries have affected Bolivia's ability to sell its single most
important export, natural gas. Repeated problems in receiving payment for gas from Argentina
have impeded fiscal management. Moreover, the discovery of important additional gas reserves
in that country as well as the recent deregulation of the market may affect sales to Argentina in
the next few years. At the same time, Brazil's internal problems and uncertainty in its energy
policy have prevented the start of construction on a natural gas pipeline to Sao Paulo, which
would benefit both countries. A third factor is the pace at which economic reform is proceeding
in other Latin American countries. With reforms underway or ccmpleted in Mexico, Peru,
Chile and Argentina, not to mention Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, Bolivia will need to
move quickly to stay competitive with other destinations for foreign investment.
10.   Of course, improvements in the economic management of neighboring countries also hold
out good prospects for expanding intraregional markets and exports. Neighboring countries
currently account for about 28% of Bolivia's non-gas exforts. Bolivia has actively sought trade
integration arrangements to further the development of regional trade. It is currently a member
of the Andean Group (Peru, Venezuela, Ecuador, Colombia and Bolivia) and is seeking bilateral
agreements with neighboring countries which would include drastic import tariff reductions to
facilitate trade (agreements have already been signed with Chile, Peru and Brazil). It is also
negotiating a bilateral trade agreement with Mexico in order to take advantage of the recently



- 5 -
signed NAFTA treaty. These steps toward integration are important elements in the country's
medium and long-term export prospects.
11.   The recently-concluded Uruguay Round GATr agreement will not have major
consequences for Bolivia but those effects that are expected to emerge are generally positive.
Bolivia was active in discussions on textiles and is expected to improve access, especially to
U.S. markets. Agriculture producers may aIso benefit through expanded markets for soybeans
and timber.
12.   Although its international price has declined dramatically in recent years, tin remains an
important component of Bolivia's exports. One factor influencing the price of tin is the U.S.
policy regarding sales of its tin stockpiles. Although we have not carried out a detailed study,
rough estimates indicate that cessation of such sales could have a sizable effect on the
international price of tin in the very short run. However, medium term effects are expected to
be negligible as other suppliers take up the shortfall that would be created by U.S. withdrawal.
13.   Perhaps the most serious external factor that will affect Bolivia's development prospects
in the near term is its access to concessional aid. Bolivia is now highly dependent on both
bilateral and multilateral concessional aid. Roughly 55% of the pledges recently tabled at the
Consultative Group Meeting on Bolivia were on concessional terms. Of the concessional
pledges, the U.S. and IDA accounted for about 45%. Thus, the U.S. 's commitment to Bolivia's
development program, closely linked to the objective of coca eradication and alternative
development, and IDA's future are key factors that will shape Bolivia's external support in the
years to come.
C. Bolivia's Economic and Social Agenda
14.   There are four critical areas of reform necessary to transform Bolivia's economy and
accelerate development. First, the country needs to unbind the productive and export potential
of its most important natural resources--hydrocarbons, minerals and land-by withdrawing the
state from productive and certain infrastructure sectors, providing a legal and institutional frame-
work which supports private investment, and improve key economic infrastructure. Second, the
country needs to strengthen essential public institutions which define and enforce policy by
implementing civil service and legal/judicial reforms. Third, it must take action to address a
major cause of the country's deep-seated poverty by providing broad access to and improving
the quality of basic education. Popular participation will be an essential instrument in achieving
this goal. And, fourth, it must establish a policy context that promotes sustainable economic
growth through rational management of natural resources.
15.   The Capitalization Program. In an attempt to address the problems discussed above,
the Government has proposed an imaginative approach to the task of withdrawing the state from
its dominance in the hydrocarbons, mining, telecommunications, power, and transport sectors,
which together currently account for more than 70% of public investment. The centerpiece of
the Government's platform is a program of privatization of six major public enterprises through
a process called capitalization. This program involves transferring management control and up
to 50% of the ownership of key state-owned enterpzises to strategic investors. Unlike traditional



- 6 -
privatization, the state will receive no funds from these transactions. Investors will not buy
existing assets, but rather will make an investment in the company. In keeping with the
Government's objective of increasing popular participation, the state's pieseni. ownership of the
existing assets will be transferred entirely to the Bolivian people, most likely through a pension
fund mechanism. The establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory environment for each
sector is an integral part of the capitalization process.
16.   The main targets for the Government's Capitalization program are hydrocarbons, mining,
power and telecommunications. COMIBOL, the Government-owned mining company, is not
formally included in the capitalization program for legal reasons, but it is undergoing a parallel
process of structural reform designed to provide for majority private participation in and
mauagement of its properties. In the transportation sector, the Government-owned airline and
railway will also be a part of the Capitalization Program.
17. Strengthening and Focusing Public Institutions. Because government institutions are
weak and politicized, as well as involved in so many aspects of the economy, Bolivia has
difficulty in designing policy, choosing and implementing investment projects, executing social
rpgrams and regulating public utilities.  To address this problem, restructuring public
institutions to create a smaller and more focused government is the second critical objective of
the new administration. One aspect of this program is the divestiture of public enterprises
described abov_. In addition, a restructuring of t<ie executive branch of government has already
taken place in which the Government has reduced both the number of ministers--from 17 to 10--
and the number of second and third-level management positions. Moreover, it has resisted
political pressures and has staffed most senior government posts with well-qualified individuals.
The Government is also moving forward with the civil service reform program, which has been
n preparation for the past two years. The program includes the use of transparent selection pro-
cesses in which there is extensive international donor participation and establishes an adequate
compensation scale and secure financing for public employees. Weaknesses in the legal and
judicial sector also constrain growth and equity. The Government is currently considering a
judicial reform program, which establishes new selection procedures for Supreme Court justices
and guarantees a minimum budget for the sector, and proposes to establish a new judicial
commission responsible for sector administration.
18.   Popular Participation, Decentralization and Education Reform. The central objective
of the new Government is to broaden the benefits of economic growth by increasing the
economic and politizal participation of Bolivia's poor. It is attempting to do so through the
distribution of shares in public enterprises, by creating a government which is responsive to
people's needs, by ersuring that legal and regulatory mechanisms work for everyone, and by
seekdng ways to decentralize decision-making and management of social programs to the local
level. An important element of the popular participation program is education reform. Low
coverage and poor quality of education are major causes of Bolivia's deep-seated structural
poverty. About 20% of the adult population is illiterate and at least 55% is functionally illiter-
ate, including many who finished primary and even ^econdary school. On average, the
population has completed four years of school; only 44% have completed primary school. These
problems reflect an inefficient and centralized administration, poorly paid and badly trained
teachers, dilapidated infrastructure and the scarcity of teaching materials. The Government has
recently initiated an education reform program which is directed at restructuring the sector and



- 7 -
which will have significant long-term effects on poverty reduction. Its objectives include
increasing icipation  at the community level in educational decisions, delegating
administration to local entities, restructuring and limiting the role of the Secretary of Education,
rationalizing expenditures on tertiary education, introducing tuition fees, training and appropriate
incentives for teachers, and rehabilitation of infrastructure.
19. Environmental Management. Bolivia's prospects for sustainable growth are inextricably
linked to a rational management of the environment.  Currently, Bolivia faces three
environmental challenges: (a) managing a relatively rich natural resource base for development
in the Eastern Lowlands; (b) managing agriculture, grazing lands and the assmciated biotic
resources in the altiplano and valleys; and (c) managing scarce water resources. The Eastern
Lowlands region is developing rapidly, with some damage to soil and forests. In the altipiano
and valleys, peasant agriculture plays a dominant role. Natural causes and mismanagement of
the soil by overgrazing, over- cropping and inappropriate use of technology arc accelerating
erosion and reducing fertility. Finally, there is intense competition for water for agriculture,
mining a ld human consumption particularly in the arid and semi-arid regions of the altiplano and
valleys. Adding to this, mining operations are discharging processinr fluents and other
pollutants into rivers and streams, contaminating irrigation and drinking water.
20.   The establishment of the Ministry of Sustainable Development and the Environment
indicates the importance the new Government places on rational resource management. Building
upon the framework environmental law, biodiverity and forest management laws have been
drafted and will be presented to Congress within the coming year. Among Bolivia's natural
resources, however, land is perhaps the most important in terms of generating employment and
income for the rural poor. The rational management of land depends upon the establishment of
clear property rights. In early 1993, partly in response to several public scandals concerning
land distribution, the former Govemment declared a moratorium on distribution of state-owned
land pending institutional restructuring of its tenure regime and established a ministerial
commission to oversee the process. Although there are few issues as potentially divisive, a
consensus on the need for land tenure and land administration reform has clearly emerged in the
past year, and the current administration has established legislative and institutional reform in
this area as a high priority.
D. The Bank Group's Assistance Strategy
21.   The strategy outlined below focuses the Bank Group's resources on the Government's
most critical reforms. The window during which difficult political decisions can be taken will
be a narrow one, in the first two years of the administration, hence the Bank Group's program
is heavily front-loaded. The strategy set out below was presented to the new Government
shortly after taling office and has also been discussed in a programming/project implementation
review mission.
22.   Macroeconomic Management and Medium Term Prospects. In the near term the
principal challenge for macroeconomic management is to reduce the fiscal deficit to a level
which can be financed by external assistance without resort to domestic credit. The new
Government inherited a difficult fiscal situation which had developed during the first half of



- 8 -
1993; recognizing that macroeconomic stability is the foundation for private sector led growth,
it has sharply cut expenditures in the latter months of 1993 and is committed to reducing the
fiscal deficit in 1994 through both revenue enhancements and expenditure controls.
23.   If the new Government is successful in getting the fiscal program back on track and is
able to implement the major reforms in the first year or two of its administration, we would
expect sustained economic growth of about 4% annually for the next three years, increasing to
an annual average of 5 % during 1997-2000. If construction of the gas pipeline to Brazil begins
within the next two years, even higher rates are possible towards the end of the decade. This
projected level of growth assumes that annual investment averages about 18% of GDP over the
period. The growth in investment is predicated on the proposed reforms stimulating private
investment, mainly in hydrocarbons, mining, communications and agriculture. Total private
investment is projected to increase from about 6% of GDP in 1992 to about 10% by the year
2000. The level of public investment would gradually decline from 9% of GDP, but its
efficiency would be improved, and it would be reallocated towards essential economic and social
infiastructure. The Government's own projections for future growth are considerably higher
than the Bank Group's, driven mainly by much higher assumed levels of private sector
investment.  In large part these higher investment levels stem from  the Government's
assumptions about dramatic increases in private capital inflows to be generated by its
Capitalization Program. Since the Capitalization concept is as yet untried and untested, we
continue to base our own projections on more conservative private investment growth
assumptions.
24.  IDA Lending. Since 1986 when it resumed lending after a four-year hiatus, IDA's main
goals have been to encourage economic reform and reactivation, improve infrastructure and
provide basic social services. The proposed four-year lending program will focus on the re-
maining stubborn structural constraints to growth, and will increase resources available for
poverty and human resource development. These priorities reflect the Government's agenda
described above, aimed at reducing the role of the state in productive and infrastructure sectors
while increasing social sector spending. The proposed 4-year lending program amounts to
US$32C million spread among 14 projects. The projects fall in the following major categories.
A tabular summary of objectives and instruments (Table 1) follows this discussion.
25.   Rationalizing the role of the State (50% of the lending program). In order to build a
solid foundation for reducing poverty, half of the proposed lending program will assist the
Government in restructuring the role of the state. The first group of projects (25% of the
lending piogram) will provide financial and technical assistance support for the Government's
Capitalization Program. A policy-based credit will set the stage by supporting the capitalization
process and the technical, legislative and regulatory work needed to recast the role of the state
in the hydrocarbons and major infrastructure sectors. Its financing would be used to offset the
fiscal costs associated with the adjustment process. This policy operation will be followed by
two operations in the hydrocarbons and power sectors, to support the restructuring process and
to help mobilize private sector participation. The second group of projects (25 % of the lending
program) will strengthen essential public institutions through judiciary, civil service and social
security reform to improve the state's ability to set, regulate and enforce policy. Institutional
strengthening is also a major theme in the Municipal Sector Development Project which will



-9-
strengthen institutional capability of small municipalities, finance economic and social infra-
structure in these municipalities and institute a civil service reform at the municipal level.
26.   Poverty and Humar, Resource Development (40 %). Our poverty strategy for FY94-97
builds on a PY93 lending program that included two important invwstment projects in the social
sector: the Integrated Child Development Project aA,d the Second Social Investment Fund Pro-
ject. The former will attempt to provide basic nutrition and simple preschool education to some
50% of children under 6 through low-cost, home-based day care centers in urban and peri-urban
low-income neighborhoods. The latter will provide continued support to Bolivia's successful
Social Investment Fund. During FY94-97, a rural water supply and sanitation project will re-
duce the incidence of child mortality and enteric diseases by relying on low-cost technology and
heavy community involvement in installation and maintenance. The lending program also in-
cludes a rural investment project directed at increasing rural incomes through productive invest-
ments at the community level, and a proposed second health project. Finally, a sector loan
would support the Government's education reform to broaden access to and improve the quality
of basic education, followed by a project specifically targeted at primary education.
27.   Natural Resource Management (10 on. The FY94-97 lending program includes a project
to define standards and enforcement mechanisms for industry and mining and to correct
environmental problems in both sectors to decrease river and aquifer pollution. This project will
build on the two projects approved in FY93 directed at strengthening the Government's ability
to manage the country's natural resources, to support sustainable growth, and to promote
biodiversity. A project to support implementation of the Agrarian Reform Law and reform of
the land tenure system will help rationalize land ownership and use, with important implications
for production, equity and especially environment management of land use.
28. Vehicles for IDA Assistance. The proposed lending program would rely on adjustment
lending to a lesser extent than in the past; only one policy-based credit is programmed,
conditioned on adequate fiscal policy and macroeconomic management. Instead, sector and
project credits would permit deeper entry into and longer-term involvement ir key reform areas.
The proposed lending program would also rely on some relatively small operations, mainly to
support technical assistance, with ambitious reformr objectives (land administration, civil service,
and regulatory/judicial reform). Given the importance and the controversial nature of these
operations, IDA will need to keep them at the center of the policy dialogue.
29.   Economic and Sector Work. The proposed economic and sector work program is
directed at supporting policy dialogue, advancing aid coordination and contributing to the
development of lending operations. This year a report on the State of the Economy and Reform
Programs was produced for distribution at the Consultative Group (CG) held in December 1993.
A 'briefing book," summarizing recent economic and sector work, was prepared for key offi-
cials in the new Government, summed up alternative courses of action and their consequences.
The FY94 CEM will focus primarily on the fiscal implications of the planned economic and
social reforms to help the Government in carrying out a reform program consistent with good
macroeconomic management. The next full CEM is planned for FY96, although we will prepare
relatively brief Updating Economic Memoranda in the alternate years to serve as documentation
for the CG.



Table 1: OBJECTIVES AND INSTRUMENTS OF COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY, FY94-97
Objeedva                                                      Currait Situaioll                                                        Instunusai
A. Unbind the country's productive and export            The country's most important natural resources-hydrocarbons, minerals   Capitalization adjustmeat opention; Regulatory and judiciary reform;
potential                                              and land-remain largely under th sftate's control. ncreased private     Hydrocarbon deregulation; Power sector reform; FY94 CEM will
investment in these areas requirea withdrawal of the State from         saosss fiscal implications of various reforms and propose sequencing.
productive and certain infrasttucture sectors, provision of a legal and
institutional framework favorable for private investment and improving
key economic infrastrmcture.
B. Strengthen esecntial public institutions              Goverrunent institutions are weak and politicizd. They need to be       Civil ervice reform  Regulatory and judiciary reform; Municipal
stengthened to carry out policy formulation, regulatory and judiciary   development project; Social security reform; Education reform.
h nctiona as well as to provide essential public services.
C. Broaden the benefits of economic growth               Bolivia's poor-the majority of its population-have little sty in public  Education reform; Municipal development project; Rural watcr and
decisions that affect their lives. To increase the economic and political  sanitation; Rural development project; Health; Primary education;
participation of Bolivia's poor, decision-making and management of      Capitalization adjustment operation
social programs will be decentralized to local levels and shares in public
entetrprise widely distdbuted.
D. Promnote sustainability of natual rcsources           The establishment of the Ministry of Sustainable Development and the    Land administation; Environment project for industry and mining
Environraent indicates the Government's commitment to rational and      sectors.
sustainable resource management. Reform of the existing agrarian law
and of the land tenure system is critical for sustainable and equitable
management of natural resources.



- 11 -
30.  Sector work concentrates on human resources, poverty, resource management and
economic infrastructure, mainly transport. The most important analytical work in human
resources will be an updating poverty assessmen. directed at determining income distribution,
diagnosing poverty and recommending additional areas of action for alleviating poverty. These
works will be followed up by a comprehensive reassessment of the health sector, including
health benefits under the social security system. In the area of resource management, an assess-
ment of environmental priorities and strategy is planned for FY95 to determine progress and
define priorities for action. In the infrastructure sector, work will be done to identify the
potential for and the means to promote private sector involvement in infrastructure development.
Our ESW program will be based on a participatory approach in which we agree annually on
priorities with the Government, execute the work jointly whenever possible, and involve the
Government at early stages of review.
31.  Project Implementation.  The proposed lending program  is built on Bolivia's
implementation record over the past seven years. In general, project execution has been better
than for many other Latin American borrowers, but disbursement rates have slipped recently
(Table 2). Project implementation has been constrained by three factors: the weakness of
counterpart institutions, as evident in low staff skill levels and high tumover rates; scarcity of
counterpart resources (from overall fiscal constraints and from diversion of resources to other
objectives); and lack of government ownership of IDA projects and programs. For too many
projects the IDA is the primary source of leadership and continuity in execution.
32.  In the past, these problems have been addressed in project design through inclusion of
fincing for local consultants, topping off of Government salaries, establishment of project units
with separate salary scales and even creation of new institutions whose administrative costs are
funded internationally. This approach has enabled implementation of projects or programs which
otherwise could not have been executed, but it has tended to reduce government ownership. The
proposed lending program will phase out at least part of the budget support which has charac-
terized lending to Bolivia in recent years to bring issues of institutional development to the
center of the policy dialogue. Specifically, in new projects, we propose to: (a) phase out
"topping off" of salaries as a practice, (b) phase ou. financing of line personnel and local consul-
tants taking on line roles (with the possible exception of the civil service project), and (c) mini-
mize financing of administrative budgets. This change in policy may carry the cost of slowing
project preparation and implementation in the short run, but is deemed necessary to achieve the
longer term goals of efficiency and government ownership of projects. We also propose to
continue the current policy which requires Bolivia to pay at least 20% of project costs.
33.   One of the biggest challenges in the program, and one of the key objectives of the new
administration, is to deliver social programs to remote sparsely populated rural areas. Reaching
the poorest people in isolated rural communities will be a central issue in the design of most
human resource projects. One approach is to increase the technical and financial capability of
local communities and municipalities, although the problems are so severe that this cannot help
but be a long-term process. In this regard, there are interesting models in both Colombia and
Mexico, but population density in Bolivia is much lower and local institutions far weaker than



- 12 -
in either of those countries. Part of the proposed sector work will focus on the question of what
service delivery mechanisms are most appropriate to the Bolivian environment. In addition, the
Municipal Sector Development project being presented and the proposed rural development
project will have as their major focus the strengthening of local capability.
Table 2: Selected Indicators of Portfolio Performance and Management
FY92   FY93
Portfolio Performance
No. of Projects under Implementation         20       21
Ave. Implementation Period (years)"           2.9      3.2
Average Ratings                               1.84     1.95
% Project Rated '3f or W4                    10        9.5
Disbursement Ratio (%) F                     25       17
Portfolio Management
Supervision Resources (total staff-weeks)   306      349
Average Supervision (staff weeks/project)    15.3    16.6
Date of Last CPPR: November 1993
-/ Average age of projects in the Bank Group's country portfolio.
b/ Ratio of disbursements during the year to undisbursed balance of the
Bank Group's portfolio at the beginning of the year.
34.   Bank Group Supervision. Projects with high policy and technical assistance conteat,
a broad-ranging lending program, local support in the form of many small contracts and a
scarcity of critical project management skills have complicated supervision of the portfolio, and,
together with the institutional weaknesses described above, have resulted in supervision coeffi-
cients higher than LAC averages. The nature of the proposed lending program is likely to re-
quire similar levels of supervision. Although there is little room to reduce total supervision
resources, we will use these resources more effectively by shifting more supervision responsi-
bility to the Resident Mission and by relying on local staff and more junior consultants for on-
the-ground follow-up of project problems.
35.   Impact of Lending Program on IUegal Coca Activities. The illegal production of coca
for processing into cocaine poses a troublesome problem for Bolivia. With income retained by
Bolivian factors of production estimated at about 2% of GDP in 1991, the coca economy has
served as a source of income for around 50,000 families in the Chaparre region, and has
provided an economic cushion for the unemployment caused by adjustments in the mining sector
and in public sector downsizing. At the same time, the growth of criminal sources of income
threatens to undermine the country's fragile public institutions, and drug use, while still



- 13 -
relatively rare, is increasing, particularly among Bolivia's street children. The proposed lending
program is designed to provide alternatives to coca production. First, it is directed at achieving
fast and equitable economic growth that will generate alternative economic activities for coca
producers. Second, it includes projects directed at reducing rural poverty, and, therefore,
incentives to migrate into coca-producing regions. The proposed rural development project, for
example, will focus on areas, such as Potosi, characterized by heavy outmigration to the
Chaparre. Finally, the lending program will provide support directed specifically at the support
of public institutions, in particular the judiciary, which are specially at risk.
36.  IFC, HIAS and MIGA Activities. IFC has to date had only a modest participation in
Bolivia, focusing mainly on operations in the mining and financial sectors. It is currently
seeldng opportunities to participate in the capitalization program, and, if successful, could
substantially expand its program in the country. IFC's role should in the future be more
important as opportunities for the private sector improve. Representatives from FIAS have
visited Bolivia on several occasions to assist the Government in its strategy to diversify exports.
While Bolivia is a member, it has not yet undertaken any operations with MIGA.
37.  Donor Coordination. Joining forces with other donors is a central part of the Bank
Group's strategy. The Bank Group will continue to work closely with the IMF. Under the
continuing ESAF agreement, the Bank Group, IMF and the Government have jointly prepared
annual Policy Framework Papers. Upon expiration of the fourth year of the current ESAF
agreement it is expected that there will be a successor IMF program with Bolivia. The
Consultative Group for Bolivia met for the eighth time in December 1993, and has evolved into
a mechanism as much for identifying and reaching a consensus on Bolivia's development
priorities as for mobilizing aid. One sign of success is the dominant role taken by the
Government in the last three years in shaping the agenda and preparing supporting documents.
Cofinancing has become the most useful mechanism of coordination; we currently have cofinan-
cing arnangements on most ongoing and proposed new projects. While cofinancing arrangements
substantially increase the time and work involved in project preparation, the payoff in terms of
avoiding duplication of effort and working at cross purposes is high. In order to share the
administrative costs of supervision, three arrangements were negotiated recently with bilateral
donors (USAID, Holland and Switzerland) to finance some of the supervision costs of jointly-
financed projects. We will seek additional, similar arrangements in the future, in particular for
supervision of social projects. We also coordinate closely with the Interamerican Development
Bank (IDB). For example, IDB is providing parallel financing for the Municipal Sector
Development Project. In response to the new administration's accelerated reform program the
IDB has increased its programmed assistance to US$240 million in 1994 to support
capitalization, education reform, social security reform and capital market development.
38.  Program Size and Bank Group Exposure. A lending program of US$320 million in
14 credits is proposed for FY94-97. The actual size of the program is likely to be somewhat
higher, given that Bolivia will continue to benefit from IDA reflows. As indicated, the program



- 14 -
will be front-loaded to provide maximum support during the first half of the new administration.
Total debt service to the World Bank Group amounted to 5.6% of exports in 1992, but is
expected to drop to about 2% of exports by the end of the decade.
39.  Risks and the fall-back position. The proposed lending program is ambitious and
designed to provide maximum support to the new Government in its pursuit of its high-growth
policy path, and there is some risk that we will not be able to achieve all of its objectives. The
major domestic risks include strong union opposition to reforms in YPFB, COMIBOL and the
education sector, and the weakness of public institutions which are to carry out reforms. Both
could delay implementation. Externally, Bolivia may face unanticipated shortfalls in official
capital inflows and further unfavorable developments in its trade. The first five months of the
new administration give grounds for optimism and some caution. The administration has made
good appointments and is putting the fiscal program back on track. Work is well underway on
legislation and decisions to support key reform areas (capitalization, education reform, and laws
for hydrocarbons, telecommunications, and power sectors). However, the pace of actions has
not met expectations as the reorganization of the executive branch added to the usual costs of
transition between administrations.
40.  The Bank Group has maintained an unusually close collaborative working relationship
with the Bolivian Government during the last nine years, and has played an important role in
helping the new Government identify issues and priorities. Our continued active commitment
to and promotion of this high-growth strategy will increase its chances of implementation. We
believe the effort is warranted because of the Bank Group's special relationship with Bolivia,
the opportunity presented by the new Government, and because even partial success could
substantially accelerate development and expand economic opportunities for Bolivia's poorest
people. A low-case lending scenario would arise were the Government to fail to maintain an
acceptable macroeconomic program. Under such circumstances we would not go forward witi.
the proposed adjustment operation and the lending program would be reduced accordingly.
E. Agenda for Board Discussion
41.  The proposed assistance strategy is designed to meet the challenge of accelerated and
more equitable growth and concentrates on four areas of interventions. First, the policy-based
lending and accompanying TA projects will help the Government privatize the major public
enterprises and create an economic and legal environment conducive to private investments.
Second, public sector institutions will be strengthened to carry out policy formulation, regulatory
and judiciary functions as well as to provide essential public services. Third, poverty alleviation
in both the medium and long-run will be pursued through the education reform program and
investments in rural development and water supply. And finally, sustainable and equitable
management of natural resources will be supported by land administration reform and additional
assistance on environmental policies for industry and mining.



- 15 -
42.  Bolivia's new Government has proposed a comprehensive and far-reaching reform
program aimed at a major transformation of the Bolivian economy. The success and
sustainability of this ambitious program depends critically on how rapidly the Government is able
to put it in place. Our strategy for Bolivia recognizes the narrow window of opportunity the
Government has to launch its programs during the early part of its administration by significantly
front loading the next three-year cycle of Bank Group lending. As currently programmed, more
than half of our three-year lending allocation for Bolivia will be delivered in FY95. This
element of our strategy is considered essential in order for the Bank Group to provide support
to the Government when it is most needed.
PART [. MUNICIPAL SECTOR AND PROJECT ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. The Sector
43.  Sector Background. Bolivia's municipal sector is characterized by an early stage of
political and administrative autonomy and a generalized lack of human and financial resources.
As a result, most municipal administrations fail to meet the responsibilities mandated to them
by the Organic Law of Municipalities of January 5, 1985. The difficulty of meeting these
responsibilities is generally aggravated by unabated population growth, mainly resulting from
migration from rural areas. During the last decade, this has averaged 4% per annum and, in
some cities, such as El Alto, has reached 10%. Urban growth has brought with it immense
problems for municipal governments. The migration of predominantly unskilled workers from
rural areas has resulted in the proliferation of low-income unserviced settlements on the outskirts
of cities, especially in major centers such as La Paz, El Alto, Santa Cruz, and Cochabamba, and
in a number of intermediate cities in their vicinity. Substantial public investment to expand city
services and improve and maintain the existing infrastructure has become an urgent necessity
everywhere.
44.  The challenge that the municipalities face in providing socio-economic services and
managing urban growth is compounded by the uneven distribution of wealth and development
conditions among different regions, cities and population groups. With the exception of La Paz
and, to a lesser extent, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, municipalities do not have any significant
managerial and financial capability. Their lack of appropriate organizational structures and
skilled personnel is worsened by the absence of a well developed system of municipal civil
service. Financially, municipalities mainly depend on fiscal resources, such as the value added
tax, collected by the Centrl Government and than redistributed to them, according to local
yields. The municipalities are directly responsible for administering property taxes, business
licenses and vehicle registration.  However, revenues from these sources are generally
insignificant because of inefficient tax registration, assessment and collection. Municipal
revenues are mainly used for operating expenditures Investment in most municipalities is
constrained by lack of resources and spending capacity. Very little money, if any, is available
to integrate marginal populations into the physical and economic fabric of cities, and protect
urban areas from flooding, soil erosion, and water pollution problems.



- 16 -
45.  Sector Institutions.  The Ministry of Human Development (MHD), through its
Secretariat of Urban Development (SUD), is the main agency responsible for guiding and
promoting municipal and urban development. The Regional Development Corporations (RDCs),
which operate under the tutelage of the Ministry of Sustainable Development (MSD), also play
an important role in urban areas by developing specific infrastructure projects (i.e., drainage
work, water supply and sanitation facilities, markets and slaughter houses) or backing the
establishment of local utility agencies (water and power). Over the last three years, the
Government has entrusted the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR) with the task of
providing investment credit to municipalities and utilities. A few additional specialized public
and private institutions, as well as various NGOs, assist municipalities and their utilities with
technical advice and staff training services. This institutional system operates under stress and
with great limitations. Political and staffing constraints limit MHD/SUD's ability to guide and
coordinate the development of the sector and to fully use technical and financial assistance
provided by external donors. Due to their uneven financial situation, depending on royalties
from the exploitation of local natural resources, only a few RDCs have actually contributed to
urban development. Since most municipalities lack any significant borrowing capacity, FNDR
could lend only to large cities or municipalities for which the RDCs could assume their debt
obligations. Finally, there is no system to help the municipalities identify their development and
personnel training needs and obtain assistance from the specialized institutionm that can meet
these needs.
46.  Government Policies and Plans. The Government is aware that strengthening municipal
management and improving the delivery of urban services is a prerequisite to the achievement
of effective decentralization, balanced regional development, private sector investment, and, in
general, a better development of local human and economic resources. Indeed, fostering the role
of municipal governments in the pursuit of national economic development and welfare is a
central objective of the Government's political agenda. To this end, the Government is planning
to: (a) review the Organic Law of Municipalities to modify the present distribution of
responsibilities between levels of govemment, (b) improve the present system of inter-
governmental fiscal relations to increase municipal revenues, and (c) extend the electoral
mandate of mayors and municipal administrations from 2 to 4 years to provide greater
administrative continuity. Responding to most immediate needs, past efforts to foster municipal
development mainly focused on helping municipalities and their utilities provide essential public
services such as water supply and sanitation. Capitalizing on technical and financial assistance
provided by multilateral and bilateral agencies during the last three years, these efforts included
pilot programs to help municipalities increase resource mobilization through real estate taxation
(cadastre), improve their accounting and financial management systems and practices, and
restructure/develop the provision of solid waste management services. The Government is now
committed to carry out these programs on a permanent basis and to extend them nationally. The
strengthening of MHD/SUD and FNDR, as well as the establishment of a Municipal
Development Institute to constitute a forum for the discussion of municipal issues and provide
advice and technical assistance to municipalities, would be instrumental to the achievement of
this objective.



- 17 -
B. The Project
47.  Project Objectives. Within the broad Government plans described above, the proposed
Project aims at promoting:
(a)   effective decentralization by enhancing the management, development and
regulatory capabilities, as well as the resource base, of municipalities, local
utilities and service enterprises;
(b)   resource mobilization and allocation for priority municipal investment projects by
strengthening financial intermediation in the sector and developing an investment
incentive system based on matching grants; and
(c)   poverty reduction and balanced regional development by encouraging the
financing of municipal infrastructure in un-serviced peri-urban areas and in
secondary cities through capital contributions by the RDCs and the National
Treasury.
48.  Project Description.  Consonant with its objectives, the Project will include the
following components:
(i)   Institutional Development. This will focus on improving the Municipal Civil
Service, as a prerequisite to efficient municipal management, and establishing a
Municipal Development Institute (MDI), as a means to assist and coordinate
municipalities in their development efforts.  Moreover it will assist the
Government to fine-tune its decentalization program (i.e., through the financing
of investigations on its scope, timing and cost) and MHD/SUD to enhance its
policy making, regulatory, and advisory functions;
(ii)   Municipal Strengthening. This will help selected municipalities implement
individualized programs for improving their accounting practices, developing
financial management and control systems, increasing local fiscal revenues,
improving municipal investment planning, and developing local regulatory
capabilities in connection with the privatization of municipal services. The
component will also include general training activities for municipal elected
officials and managers; and
(iii)  Investment Financing. This will support the development of priority projects
for the rehabilitation, extension and development of infrastructure networks and
public facilities. To be eligible for financing, investment projects wiU have to
meet agreed technical standards and cost recovery and financial performance
targets; beneficiaries will have to meet, or commit themselves to meet, agreed



- 18 -
institutional, organizational and operational requirements.  Water supply,
sanitation, and environmental protection projects as well as priority projects
benefitting low-income neighborhoods (at least 50% of the population below
poverty line) will qualify for government matching grants. The IDA credit will
mainly support projects located in small and intermediate cities. Projects located
in large cities will be primarily financed from other sources of funding, in
particular from an IDB loan.
49.  Project Implementation. As the Central Government agency primarily responsible for
municipal and urban development, MHD will coordinate the implementation of the institutional
development and the municipal strengthening components. However, it will contract the
responsibility for managing tI,e execution of the municipal strengthening activities to FNDR, thus
relying on the proven administrative and financial management capabilities of this institution.
Upon its effective establishment and after verification that it has adequate operational capacity,
the management of the above activities will be transferred to MDI, consonant with the
institutional development objectives of the sector.
50.  FNDR will be responsible for the implementation of the investment financing component.
Under the proposed project, this institution will continue to operate as a National Fund
dependent on Central Government for its financial resources but responsible for investing them
in sound projects with eligible beneficiaries. IDB has been a major lender to FNDR and has
provided substantial technical assistance to strengthen its organization and operations. The Bank
Group is using FNDR to channel the credit proceeds of the Three Cities Water Supply Project.
Overall, FNDR is well managed and staffed. Due to its recent creation, it is not yet generating
sufficient income from its operations to fully support itself. This is expected to happen in 1994.
A program of further technical assistance to FNDR is envisaged under a recently approved IDB
loan. The Bank Group staff riviewed this program with representatives of both IDB and FNDR
and agrees that it is well-focussed and appropriate.
51.  The structure of investment financing will consist of a mix of: (a) FNDR loans, (b)
central government matching grants to promote priority municipal investments (e.g., water
supply and sanitation, in low-income neighborhoods), (c) Central Government or RDCs
investment grants for priority projects by beneficiaries unable to borrow, and (d) equity
financing by the beneficiary. FNDR will be responsible for on-lending the resources
corresponding to the first category of funds. The Republic of Bolivia (Borrower) will on-lend
the IDA credit on the same terms and corditions it receives. Since FNDR will on-lend these
funds to its sub-borrowers at higher variable interest rates (average rate of 6 months dollar
denominated CDs by commercial banks) and shorter maturities (10 years on average), it will use
the spread to finance new loans and to maintain an appropriate level of worldng capital. On-
lending decisions will be the exclusive responsibility of FNDR and will be based on the
economic, financial and technical evaluation of the sub-projects presented to it by its sub-
borrowers. The local RDCs will provide additional loan guarantees whenever the final
beneficiary is unable to meet appropriate creditwortiiness standards. FNDR will administer,
on behalf of the State, the provision of matching and investment grants. The criteria and



- 19 -
procedures that will regulate FNDR on-lending operations and the administration of matching
and investment grants will be specified in the subsidiary credit agreement between the Republic
of Bolivia and FNDR, to be reviewed and approved by the Bank Group. Matching grants will
be automatically given to all eligible sub-projects. The provision of Treasury transfers for
capital contributions to non-creditworthy beneficiaries will be monitored by MOF and MHD.
52.  The procurement activities for the implementation of the project include contract
awarding for civil works, goods, equipment, and professional services. These activities will be
carried out according to Bank Group guidelines and using the Bank Group's standard bidding
documents for all contracts requiring ICB (i.e., above US$1.5 million for civil works and
US$150,000 for the procurement of goods, equipment and professional services). In the case
of LCB, FNDR will use its present procedures and bidding documents, which have been
reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory.
53.  Overall, the IDA credit will finance 70% of the total project cost of US$56 million. Its
proceeds will be used as follows:
institutional development activities   US$2.5 million
municipal strengthening activities    US$5.1 million
investment activities          US$32.9 million
repayment of PPF advance       US$1.5 million
TOTAL    US$42.0 million
54.  The estimated costs and financing plan of the Project are given in Schedule A.
Arrangements for procurement and disbursement are given in Schedule B. The timetable of key
events for project processing is summarized in Schedule C, and the status of Bank Group
operations in Bolivia is provided in Schedule D. Two maps are attached. The Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) No. 11996-BO, dated November 30, 1993, is also attached.
55.  Project Sustainability.    By helping the Government establish the Municipal
Development Institute and foster the development of municipal credit financing, the proposed
Project addresses the issue of maldng permanent and self-supporting the provision of TA and
investment funds to municipalities and their agencies. Project sustainability is also pursued by
ensuring that the proposed programs for improving the municipal civil service, strengthening
municipal management and expanding the provision of municipal services be designed andi
targeted according to the absorptive capacity of the beneficiaries and their proven commitment
to take full advantage of them. To benefit from technical assistance, municipalities and the;.
agencies will have to mobilize adequate counterpart human and financial resources; to undertake
investment financing, they will have to improve resource availability for debt service,
amortation and operations, from fiscal sources, user fees and tariffs, as appropriate.



- 20 -
56.  Lessons Learned from Previous Involvement in the Sector.  Past Bank Group
assistance to municipal and urban development in Bolivia includes two operations. The first,
implemented between 1977 and 1986, helped provide basic shelter and urban facilities to low-
income households in La Paz; the second, in progress since 1988, is intended to strengthen this
city's institutional capacity and fiscal base while addressing critical infrastructure, service and
environmental needs. In addition, the Bank Group has financed three water supply projects
aimed at extending the coverage and improving the provision of such services by local utilities.
The experience of these operations shows that inadequate administrative and management
capacity at the central and local levels, combined with the pressures resulting from a fragmented
political system, are the main constraints to project implementation. This highlights the need
for realistic and clear project objectives, design, and implementation arrangements. The
responsibility for managing project implementation should be focussed in a few agencies,
technically strong and politically and financially independent.
57.  Rationale for IDA Involvement. Decentralization and urbanization trends in Bolivia will
continue in the foreseeable future. As municipalities become more independent and urban
centers grow in size and number, the Government will need to give careful thought to the role
of cities and their actual ability to contribute to social welfare and the development of the
national economy. The country assistance strategy for Bolivia calls for: (a) unbinding the
productive sectors through limiting the role of the State and improvirng the economic
infrastructure; (b) improving the performance of public institutions; (c) broadening the benefits
of economic growth by increasing the economic and political participation of the poor; and (d)
promoting sustainability of natural resources. The proposed operation is consistent with this
assistance strategy. It aims at improving public sector efficiency, fostering decentralization, and
increasing the coverage and quality of basic services. Moreover, it will help promote a
sustainable system of municipal investment financing across the country.
58.  Agreed Actions. The Government authorities concerned agreed that, to foster effective
decentralization and municipal development, they will submit to IDA for review and comment,
no later than March 31, 1995, an action plan for redefining the present inter-governmental fiscal
relations, improving the organic law of municipalites, and extending the electoral mandate of
mayors and municipal administrations. Moreover, they agreed that: (a) the implementation of
the municipal TA and institutional strengthening activities will be carried out according to an
operational manual to be jointly prepared by MHD and FNDR and to be approved by IDA, with
oversight by a Special Committee including a representative of MHD, MOF, FNDR and the
municipalities, and will be programmed through Annual Operational Plans; (b) a representative
of MHD will participate in FNDR's Credit Committee whenever this reviews the eligibility for
financing of investment projects benefitting from government capital contributions; and (c)
MHD/SUD will transfer the responsibility for managing the implementation of the municipal TA
and strengthening activities to the MDI, at the time that this Institute is fully staffed and financed
to IDA's satisfaction.



- 21 -
59.  Environmental Aspects. The Project has a "B" environmental rating and does not
present major direct environmental risks. Whenever needed, FNDR will require that the
feasibility studies of the investment projects to be financed with the credit proceeds include an
environmental impact assessment.
60.  Program Objective Categories. The Project is primarily a basic infrastructure and urban
development operation, with strong public sector management content. It relies on financial
intermediation mechanisms for its investment activities.  Its public sector management
component will support the improvement/development of regulatory and environmental
management capabilities at local level; its investment financing component the implementation
of projects for protecting urban areas from flooding, landslides, and other environmental
hazards. Although the Project is not part of the core poverty program, it will contribute to
poverty reduction by fostering municipal development in small urban centers in disadvantaged
regions, and by promoting the development of water supply and sanitation facilities in peri-urban
areas inhabited by low-income population. The Project will also support 'L.e implementation of
policies and actions that will foster the imp[act of municipal development projects on the
improvement of women conditions and on their participation in the social and economic life of
local cer nunities.
61.  Project Benefits. The Project will improve municipal management and the availability
of essential urban services in numerous cities and towns with an aggregate population of at least
2 million or over 60% of Bolivia's urban population. Towns will include small centers that,
because of their size or location, have only marginally benefitted from previous municipal and
urban development programs. Direct economic benefits will mainly materialize in the form of
increased real estate values resulting from improvements in the urban environment (i.e., street
paving, drainage facilities, water and sewerage connections, and solid waste collection services).
The enhancement of real estate values will improve the local governments' ability to mobilize
fiscal revenues.   The improvement/development of sanitation facilities and services,
marketplaces, and slaughterhouses will help reduce health hazards resulting from the
unsatisfactory waste management and food processing arrangements now prevailing in most large
and small communities. Street construction and maintenance and traffic management activities
will yield savings in vehicle operating costs. Based on the eligibility criteria of individual
investment activities, the overall project ERR is expected to exceed '2%.
62.  Risks. The activities that present greater implementation difficulties and risk of failure
are those related to the improvement of the municipal civil service and the operational
establishment of the Municipal Development Institute. Improving the municipal civil service
would require behavioral changes by both elected officials and municipal staff which are lengthy
to achieve and generally dependent on country-wide socio-economic changes. Moreover, in
large municipalities it would often require overcoming the political and cost constraint of laying
off redundant personnel; in small municipalities it will require overcoming the lack of financial
resources to meet the payroll of a minimum and appropriately qualified technical staff. This
calls for a gradual approach, differentiated by city. Moreover, it calls for the establishment of
a self-supporting system of promotion and follow-up of the reform program. possibly through
the involvement of a reformed Association of Municipalities. In spite of its recent legal creation
and the strong interest in its services by all the parties concerned, the operational establishment
of MDI could be negatively affected by the divisiveness of municipal politics and the weakness



- 22 -
of the existing two municipal associations. This calls for active Central Government support to
the creation of MDI. Such support should be mainly financial to bear part of the expenditures
for its initial operations. Limited project implementation capacity at local levels, political
interference in investment decisions, and turnover of central and local government officials are
factors that could negatively affect project implementation in general. Concentrating the
responsibility for project implementation in FNDR, establishing simple and transparent
investment eligibility criteria, and harmonizing project implementation with municipal civil
service reform programs alleviate the negative impact of tisese factors.
63.  Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 5, 1994



- 23 -
Schedule A
Bolivia: Municipal Sector Development Project
Summasy of Project Costas  _._.___._                         (U$ UMion)
Component                            Sub-omponent            Foraign Cost      Local Cost               TOTAL
Amiount           %
Instit. Development             MHD: satdies                     0.4              0.2             0.6             1.1
TA to SUD                     0.3              0.2             0.5            1.0
civil service                 0.1              0.2             0.3            0.5
MDI                               1.2             1.3             2.5            4.4
Muaic. S tngthening             TA and training                   1.2              3.9            5.1             8.8
La Paz BaV. ManageMnCAt          0.3              0.5             0.8             1.4
investment Fi ancing            Sub-loans                        10.5             16.0            26.5           45.6
Matching Grants                  3.2              5.5             8.7            15.0
Capital Grnts                    3.2              5.5             8.7            15.0
Pro-Invest. Studies              0.6              1.0             1.6             2.7
PPF Advance                                                      0.3               1.2            1.5             2.5
Unallocated                                                      0.2-             1.0.            1.2             2.0
Total    Amount                                                  21.5             36.5            58.0           100.0
Pesnentage                                            37.0             63.0           100.0
________________                          Projeet Componean by Source of FSaaeg                                 (US$ nilio*
Component                            Sub-omponent            Government          MNDR             IDA           TOTAL
nst. Developmenot              MHD: studics                      0.1                              0.5             0.6
TA to SUD                      0.1                              0.4             0.5
civil service                  0.1                              n 2             0.3
________________________         MDI                               1.1                              1.4             2.5
Munic. Srngthi                 TA and training                    0.6                             4.5              5.1
La Paz Env. Management            0.2                              0.6             0.8
Inestmen Fiancing              Sub-lans                          2.4               5.5            18.6            26.5
Matching Grants                   0.8              1.9             6.0             9.3
Capital (hnts                     0.8              1.9             6.0             9.3
Pre-nvest. Studies                0.1              OA              1.1             1.6
PPF Advance                                                       -                                1.5             1.5
Unallocated                                                       -                 -              1.2             1.2
Toal    Asount                                                    6.3              9.7            42.0            58.0
Prcentagc                                             10.8             16.7            72.5            100.0
IDA Credit Dibursement Projections                                 ([T$ nillon)
FY4   FY9    F9    FY97    FY98                                  FYM9    Total
listitutional                      0.4         1.1         0.7          0.3                                       2.5
Developmeut                   ||                  . ||| -
Municipal Strengthening            0.5         1.5          1.5         1.0           0.6                         5.1
Investment Financing               2.0         5.0         6.9          8.0           8.0           3.0           32.9
PPF Ad1.5                                                                                                          1.5
Total                             4.4          7.i         9.1          9.3           8.6           3.0           42.0



- 24 -
Schedule B
Bolivia: Municipal Sector Development Project
Summary of Ptomurenent Arragements
Total Cost (IDA Fncing)
amS Millon)
COMPONENT/CATEGORY/AGENCY                              ICB          LCB         OTEIER       TOTAL
Investment FinancinglFNDR                            11.0 (9.0)    26.0 (17.4)   9.7 (6.5)  46.7 (32.9)
Civil Works                                       9.5 (8.0)    22.0 (16.0)   3.3 (1.8) a/   34.8 (25.8)
Goods and Equipment                               1.S (1.0)    4.0 (1.4)    1.7 (0.7) a/    7.2 (3.1)
Consultant Services                                  ( 3          (-)      4.7 (4.0) b/    4.7 (4.0)
Instituonal Development                                  (-)       0.6 (0.3)    3.5 (2.3)    4.1 (2.6)
Consultant and Training Services: MHD                 ()         - t;      1.2 (1.0) b/    1.2 (1.0)
MDI                     (-)         (-)       1.0 (0.7) b/    1.0 (0.7)
Goods and Equipment:         MHD                     (         0.2 (0.1)      (          0.2 (0.1)
MDI                     (-)      0.4 (0.2)    0.4 (0.1) a/    0.8 (0.3)
Operating Expenditures:      MDI                     (-)          (-)      0.7 (0.4) cl    0.7 (0.4)
LA PAZ MUN.            (-)          (-)      0.2 (0.1) c/    0.2 (0.1)
Muicipal Strengthening                                  - (-)      0.6 (0.5)    5.1 (4.5)    5.7 (5.0)
Consultant and Training Services: FNDR               (-)          (        4.3 (4.0) bl    4.3 (4.0)
LA PAZ MUN.             ( 3         (-)      0.2 (0.2) b/    0.2 (0.2)
Goods and Equipment:         FNDR                    (-)       0.4 (0.3)    0.4 (0.2) a/    0.9 (0.5)
LA PAZ MUN.            (-)       0.2 (0.2)    0.2 (0.1) a/    0.4 (0.3)
Totl                                                 11.0 (9.0)   27.2 (182)   18.3 (13.3)    56.5 (40.5)
PPF Advance (fiaced according to bank's guidelines)                                          1.5 (1.5)
TOTAL                                                 11.0 (9.0)    27.2 (18.2)   18.3 (13.3)    58.0 (42.0)
a/ Shopping by invitation of at least three bidders
b/ According to Bank Group guidelines
c/ Varies according to types of expenditure (e.g. direct payment for rents)



- 25 -
Sch-eduIleC
Bolivia: Municipal Sector Development Project
Tlmetable of Key Project Processing Events
a) Time taken to prepare: 14 months
b) Prepared by: Goveniment with IDA assistance (PPF Advance of US$1.5 million)
c) First identification/preparation mission: March 16 to 27, 1992
d) Appraisal mission: April 29 to May 16, 1993
e) Negotiations: November 1993
f) Expected date of credit effectiveness: March 1994



- 26 -
Schedule D
Bolivia: Municipal Sector Development Project
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN BOLIVIA (as of September 30, 1993)
Amount (ten
cancellations)
Credit Number     Fiscal Year    Borrower            Purpose            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
xGroup
16 Loans and 24 Credits Closed                                         274.78   358.80      0.17
18180           1987        Bolivia    Power Sector Rehab                   6.80       0.54
18420           1988        Bolivia    La Paz Municipal Devt               15.00       2.10
19770           1989        Bolivia    Econ Mgt Strength Opn                9.70       0.24
20120           1989        Bolivia    Export Corridors                    37.00      12.76
20130           1989        Bolivia    Mining Sector                       35.00      28.33
20920           1990        Bolivia   Integrated Health Devt               20.00      12.58
21190           1990        Bolivia    Eastern Lowlands                    35.00      19.29
21270           1990        Bolivia    Social Invest't Fund                20.00       4.94
21340           1990        Bolivia    Private Enterprise Devt              16.10     13.70
19253 (S)       1991        Bolivia    Financial Sector - C                14.50       0.00
21870           1991        Bolivia    Water Supply & Sewerage             35.00      26.39
22160           1991        Bolivia    Technology Dev't                    21.00      14.86
22790           1991        Bolivia    Public Financial Mgt II             11.30       8.55
22980 (S)       1992        Bolivia    Structural Adjustment Credit        61.52      35.35
23220 (S)       1992        Bolivia    Agro Export Dev. Prog.              22.50      20.61
23950           1992        Bolivia    Road Maintenance                    80.00      80.36'
24430           1993        Bolivia    Environ. TA Project                  4.80       3.24
25310           1993        Bolivia   Integrated Child Dev                 50.70      49.88
25320           1993        Bolivia    Social Investment Fund II           40.00      39.43
535.92    373.15
TOTAL                                          274.78   894.72
Of which repaid                              184.15   15.32
Total held by Bank & IDA                        90.63   879.40
Amount sold                                    0.05
Of which repaid                               0.00
Total Undisbursed                                                 373.15
Undisbutsed amount is rcf&rd to original loan amount prior to cancetlation.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1993)
Loan              Equity                        l
(in millions of     (in millions       - Total
US$)              of US$)                    .
Total gross commitments                               75.64               11.62             87.56
Less cancellations, terminations, exchange adjustment,
repayments, writeoffs, and sales                    15.21                1.20             16.41
Total commitments now held by IFC                     60.72               10.42             71.15
Total undisbursed                                      2.73               3.23               5.96



- 27 -
Annex Tables for
Pat I
Country Policies and Bank Group Assistance Strategy



- 28 -
Annex 1
Bolivia-Bank Group Fact Sheet
IDA Lending Program FY91-97
Past           Current           Planned
FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94        FY95    FY96   FY97
Comniitments (US$m)         81.8   142.5   106.6    104.4   122        55       45
Sector (%)
Agriculture              25       16                         10     35
Industry and Finance     18                                         30
Energy                                                       15
Power                                                        10
Public Sector Mgmt.     14"      28      i(W       249
Infrastructure and
Urban Develop.          43      56                38       15
Human Resources                           85        38              35       65
Environment                                5                                 35
Mining and Other
Extractive
Multisector                                                  50
TOTAL            100     100      100       100      100    100      100
Lending Instrument (%)
Adjustment loans           14      28       10        9       40       0        0
Specific Investment
Loans and Others         86      72       90        91       60    100       100
TOTAL            100     100      100       100      100    100      100
Disbursements (US$m)k'      44.7    61.6    62.7    106        96    106       115
ai Includes IDA rellows attached to adjustment operations.
_J Actual for FY91-FY93 and projected for CY94-CY97.



-29 -
Annex 2
Boivia-IFC Program, FY91-FY94
Past            Currenot
FY91   FY92   FY93        FY94
IFC Approvals (US$m)              9.9    43.53   2.89         20
Sector (%)
Agribusiness
Capital Makets                                             S0
Chemicals/ertdlizers         100
Iafistcturp                             6
Manufacturing
Oil/Mining                             94    100           50
TOTAL               100     100    100          100
Investment Instrument (%)
Loans                           40      98    100           75
Equity                          60       2       -            -
Quasi-Equity                     -        -      -          25
TOTAL              100      100    100          100
St Expcted but not yet approved.



-  30  -                                                        Annex A3
Bolivia: Priority Poverty Indicators                                      Page 1 of 2
Most Samer&Inwcomegrosip             Ned
25-30       15-20       recent       Labn       Lei-         higher
Un,kof            yean         yern      esdate    Am.erci         middle      icome
Iniato                          _ee                             (em mgo                (e)   Caribean         income        8Wug
POVERTY
Upper povety line                         local ur.               ..          ..           ..ur
Headoouw index                           % of pop.               ..          ..           ..
Lowevpoverty line                         local cuTr.                          ..          ..          ..          ..
Headocunt index                          % of pop.               ..          ..           ..
GNP percapita                                USS                 180         360         650        2,410       1,610       3,820
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Uvkled urban wages                        loca ctur.               ..          .
Uinled nuLW wages
Rural tam oftrad                                                  .. ..                    ..
Conmer price index                        1987-100                 0           0         190
Lower mnme_
Food                                         *                   ..          ..         184           ..          ..-
Utban                                                            _           ..          ..          _            ..          _
Ruml                                                             ..          .           .           _
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public  _epa2de on basic social sevies    % of GDP                       ..         ..                 ..           _           _
Gros mnrolmea tratios
Ptrimy                                 %schoolagepop.            73           85          82         107          100
Male                                         *                  86           94          87           _          106
Fenale                                       *                  60          76           78           -           98
Morality
bfatmoality                           thou. livebirds          160          139          83          43           40          33
Under 5 moality                                                  ..          ..         122          53           53          40
Measles                                 % age group              ..          ..          53          78           70           _
DPT                                                              ..          ..          41          77           74           _
Child malnutrition (under-S)                  S                    _           -          36           -            -           _
TotW                                       ys                   44          49           59          68           67          69
Femaesmal                                  raio                1.10        1.09        1.07         1.09        1.08         1.11
Totalferwityrat                        bikspernwonn              6.6         63          4.8          3.1         3.5          2.6
Manal motwity rat                      100,000 live births                    ..          48     _                  -
Population growth rate                       Infant mortality rate                        Primary enrollment
(prcio)                                 (tho  of livebis)                               (peent)
6+                                        250                                          120+
200                                          1Oo
4                                                                                       so
3                                                                                       60
100
2     ~           *     -40
1                                                                                       2
0                                           0 
midEOs    mid 709       mmt                rnid 6O     mid 70s      mmt                 add 6s   mrdd70s        mms
o3 Bolivia
_   Lower-middle noon



-  31 -                                                    Annex A3
Page 2 of 2
Bolivia: Resources And Expenditures
25-30      15-20                                          Nest L  LtA 14W
Unit of           yeun       yean      eshaate    Americ      midd&b-     b%came
ndcaror         _                        meard    ar         e    a       go age          Caribben      bvan         grasP
EIUNIAN RESOURCES
Population (mrel991)                    thousands           3,841      4,t94       7,347     445,450    773,803     632,037
Age dependency ratio                      ratio              0.86       0.87        0.4         0.67       0.71        0.63
Urban                                    % of pop.           40.0       41.5        52.0        72.3       53.9        7Z9
Population growth rat                    annual %             2.3        2.5         2.4         1.7        1.7         1.1
Urban                                                        2.7         2-9        4.0         2.9        3.1         2.0
Labor force (1564)                      thousands           1,291       1.565      2,344     162,042    302,44S     243,141
Agriculture                           % oflabor force          54         49           .          -
Industry                                    *                 20          20           _
Female                                                        21          22          26         27          32          30
Female per 100 mates
Urban                                    number                _         99         108        106
Rur3l                                                          -         99         100         88           _
NATURAL RESOtiRCES
Area                                   tho. q. km          1099        1,099      1.099      20,507     23.990      38,944
Deasity                               pop.prsq.rsn            3.0         4.0        6.0        21.0       31.0        16.0
Agricultural land                      %of land reA          27.4       28.1        27.8        40.5       41.8        43.9
Change in agricultural land              annual %             0.0         0.2       40.2         0.2         0.0        0.1
Agricultrl land under iripgon               %                 0.3         0.4        0.5         3.2        12.6         8.3
Forets and woodland                     thou. s. km           595        568         557       9.553      5,396       7.705
Deforestation (net)                      annual %     O       0.4   4 0.5            0.1                      -           -
.INCOME
-Household income
Share oftop 20% of households          % of income             _         59           -
Share of bottom 40% of households                              -         13
Share ofbottom 20% ofhouseholds            *.                             4           ..         ..
EXPE?4DITURE
Food                                    %otfDP                  _          _           _          _           _
Staples
Meat, fish, milk cheo, eg  -
Cerai impots                         thou. meric tones        168        241         147      21,698      44.418     35,976
Food aid in cerals                                              -         22          93       1,783       4,047        366
Food productionper sapia               197981-100              89        102         116         104        101         108
Fttilizer consumption                     kffha               1.0         1.0        3.0        63.1        94.2      120.0
Share ofagricutreinGDP                  %ofGDP               22.9        20.3       32.6         9.4          _          8
Housing                                 %ofGDF                  _          - _                           
Avaage household size               persons per householtd                 4
U,rban                                                         _          4           _           _
Fixed investent housing                 %ofoDP                            6.8        1
Fuel and power                          %of GDP                            -
Energy consumption per capita          kS ofoil equiv.        156        258         257       1,061       1,249       1,701
Households with electricity
Urban                                %ofbouwel01ds           7.6         5.8
Rural                                                       76.4        76.2         ..
Trnsport and comnunltdadon              %of GDP 
Fixed investment transport eqWipmnt                                       6.7
Total road length                       thou. km                           ..
INVESTME-NT  N MUMMCAPITAL
Health
Access to health care                    % ofpop.
Population per physcian:                 persons            3,300       2,098
Population per nurse                                        3,989       3,074      2.466 
Population perhospital bed                  *                   _        499         828        510         509
Accems to safe water                     %ofpop.                _        34.0       66.0        73.4          -           -
Urban                                      R                   -        81.0       90.0        83.6          -           -
Rural                                                          -         60O       40.0        66.9          -
Oral rehydyatiothapy (under-5)          %ofcases                                      60         51           -           -
Educadton
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                           %ofschool.age pop.         18         31          34         48          56           -
Fcmale                                                       i5          25          31         53           _           -
Pupilteacher ratio:prirtay            pupdisperteacha          28         22          25         25          25
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                 21         19           _           -          -           -
Pupils reaching grade 4                 %ofcohort               _         52           _         64
Repeat rate: primary                  %eoftotaleroll e m u                                        14
Illitueacy                           % of pop. (age 15+)                  377         23          15
Female                              %offcrr(age l5+)          ..          -          29          17
Newspapercirculation                   per thou. pop.          25         41          45
Source: World Bank international Economics Department. April 1993
Note: Most recent estimate yet to be updated based on results of 1992 Census.



- 32 -                                      Annex A4
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                             Projected
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992         1993    1994    1995
National Accounts (as % of GOP at Current Market PricesJ
Gross Domestic Product
Agriculture a/                      22.9    22.0    21.0    21.5    20.7          _        _       _
Industry al                         28.9    30.6    31.6    32.0    31.6
Services al                         48.2    47.4    47.4    46.5    47.7
Consumption                           93.4    91.5    90.7    91.3    95.3          94.9    93.4    92.1
Gross Investment                      12.1    12.0    12.7    13.8    15.8          15.0    14.3    14.7
Private Investment                   4.2      4.1     4.3      4.5      5.6        7.0      8.2      9.2
Public Investment                    8.1      8.8     8.9      9.3    10.2         8.0      6.0      5.6
Exports of GNFS b/                    15.2    19.3    21.7    18.3    14.7          13.6    15.3    15.8
Imports of GNFS                       20.7    22.8    25.1    23.4    25.8          23.5    23.0    22.7
Grosp national savings                 1.0     3.5      4.5      4.4      1.5        1.7      3.5      5.0
Gross domestic savings                 6.6     8.5      9.3      8.7      4.7        5.1      6.6     7.9
Memorandum Items
GDP (mullion US$ at current prices)  4422.5  4508.6  4498.8  5019.4  5270.4    5571.8  5703.0  6045.3
GNP per capita (US$ current prices)    ..  638.3   631.4   649.6   672.8         696.7   715.7   735.1
Publicg nance f% of GOP at current market prices
Current Revenues                      19.9    21.1    24.1    25.9    25.5          24.8    25.6    25.9
Current Expenditures                  19.3    19.4    21.8    22.9    22.3          23.5    22.0    22.7
Surplus l+) or deficit (1-             0.6     1.7      2.3      3.2      3.2        1.3      3.6      3.2
Capttal Expenditures                   8.1     8.9      9.2      9.5    10.9         9.4      8.3      7.7
Foreign Financing                      4.5     2.1      2.7      3.5      4.6        5.7      3.4     3.1
Real annual growth rates 1%J
Gross Domestic Product                 2.9     2.8      2.6      4.1      3.8        4.0      3.5      4.0
Gross Domestic Income                 0.5      0.8      0.2      3.2      1.7        4.2      3.3     4.3
Real annual per capita growth trtes 1%)
Gross Domestic Product                 0.5     0.4      0.1      1.6      1.2        1.4      0.9      1.4
Total Consumption                     -3.5    -3.4    -2.8       1.9      3.5        4.4    -1.1       0.6
Private Consumption                   -6.3    -2.9    -3.3       0.9      3.5        4.7    -1.4      0.6
Monetary indicators
M21GDP                                16.2    18.5    23.4    28.8    34.5
Growth of M2 I%)                      43.3    33.4    48.7    54.9    37.2
Private sector credit growthltotal credit  88.8    51.2   ..    93.6   111.6
growth l%)
a. As % of GDP at Constant Market Prices.
b. GNFS * goods and non-factor services.



- 33 -
Annex A4
Page 20of2
BOLIVIA - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                            Projected
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992         1993    1994    1995
BaWance of Payments Af0iZon US$J
Exports (goods and nfs)                      673.1   868.5   978.4   919.6   775.3         760.1   871.8   958.1
Of which: Merchandise (FOB)                 542.4   723.4   830.7   760.3   608.4         585.4   690.5   773.0
Impots (goods eand nfs)                      916.4  1025.8  1130.3  1174.3  1358.9    1310.3  1311.0  1373.4
Of which: Merchandise (FOB)                 767.7   861.7   962.7   993.0  1169.3    1123.2  1127.1  1184.8
Resource Balance                             -243.3  -157.3  -151.9  -254.7  -583.3    -550.2   439.3  -415.4
Net current transf3are                         12.8    21.9    21.6    22.5    22.7         25.1     27.4    28.S
Current Account Balance (before official transfers)  -490.5  -384.7  -371.4  -474.7  -753.6    -737.4  -613.5  -587.1
Private Direct investment                     30.0    35.0    35.0    50.0    86.0         100.0   100.0   130.0
MLT loans (net)                               174.9   243.1   107.3   150.3   239.3        213.4   159.0   107.2
Offial                                      174.9   243.1   131.3   175.3   267.3        213.4   159.0   107.2
Private                                       0.0      0.0   -24.0   -25.0   -28.0          0.0      0.0     0.0
Other Capital including errors and omissions)  131.9  -167.1   174.6   204.3   244.9       224.8   164.1   160.5
Changes In reserves c/                       29.8   139.8   -98.9   -89.9   -37.1         -30.9   -44.6   -46.S
Memorandum Items
Exports as % of GOP                          15.2    19.3    21.7    18.3    14.7          13.6    15.3    15.8
Imports as % of GOP                          20.7    22.8    25.1    23.4    25.8          23.5    23.0    22.7
Resource Bsaance as % of GOP                 -5.5    -3.5      3.4    -5.1   -11.1         -9.9    -7.7    -6.9
RoelAnnuad growth rates (%i
Merchandise Exports                             6.1    24.7    15.5       0.7     4.2        0.6      8.0      4.5
Merchandise Imports                           .10.6    11.5      9.6      3.3      6.4      -2.0    -1.0       2.1
Price Indices f1988 - 100)
Exportpriceindex                              100.0   118.5   136.3   143.6   137.8          --               -
Import price index                            100.0   115.0   136.2   154.5   183.2          -        -       -
Terms of trade price index                    100.0   103.1   100.1    92.9    75.2          -        -       -
Real exchange rate index                      100.0    96.9    81.3    84.2    82.0          -        -       -
Consumer price Index (% growth rate)           16.0    15.2    17.1    21.4    12.1          -        -       -
Res interest rates d/                          20.0    19.8    18.2    14.7    17.4          -       -        -
GOP deflator (% growth rate)                   14.0    13.5    14.6    20.9    10.2          -       -        -
c. Includes use of IMF Resources.
d. Real rates on dollar-denominated loans.



- 34 -
Annex AS
Page 1 of 1
BOLIVIA - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                             Projected
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992          1993    1994    1995
Total Debt Outstanding (TDO)(USS m) a/  4901.4  4120.7  4269.2  4085.3  4241.1       4191.8  4416.5  4580.0
Net Disbursements (US$ m) a/             36.2   248.0    35.1    129.3   263.3         293.5   224.7   163.6
Total Debt Service (TMS) (US $ m) bl    491.6   419.2   573.8   504.9   464.2         483.7   485.9   533.8
Debt and Debts Service Indicators (%)
TDO/XGS                                711.5   462.7   428.9   433.7   536.2         531.0   489.0   481.4
TDOIGDP                                110.8    91.4    94.9    81.4    80.5           75.2    77.4    75.8
-TDS/XGS                                71.4    47.1      57.6    53.6    58.7         61.3    53.8    53.8
IBRDIiOA Exposure Indicators I%)
IBRD1DA DS PubGc DS                    11.1    10.7       8.7     11.4    10.5        10.1      9.7      8.6
Preferred Creditor/Pubiic DS           32.5    47.4    40.2    38.4    42.9           46.5    51.1      50.9
IBRO/IDA DS/XGS                         6.6      4.5      4.0      4.9      5.1        5.1      4.3      3.8
IBRD/IDA portfolio share                9.7    12.7    13.7    15.1        14.8       16.9     17.9    18.8
IFC (US$m) o/
Loans                                  -        -         7.0      4.0    42.8         2.9     15.0
Equity and quasy-equity d/             -        -         3.0      5.9      0.7       -        15.0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m) e/
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private non-guaranteed debt, use of IMf credits, and short-term capital.
b. Includes Interest and principal repayments due but rescheduled by bilateral creditors.
c. Figures are for fiscal years not calendar years.
d. Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
e. N/A - not applicable, as to date there have not been any MIGA operations In Boivia.



IBRO 24920
B  R  A  Z  I L                                     8 0 BLI VI A
TaPGrtnWto  MUNICIPAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tt P'. To,Iofitc\ 1  /SeRgM   _ .        enm            Urban Population of Center Towno     ROAOS
\ 70000 p'o"'             Moin
Trocks
'\0,00 '  /  gg   j  t   \\S  Ferry Lines
0   Towns 
@)  National Capital
teoInt-tioanl Boundaries
Altipi..n
Valleys
| P E R U       W.Ms               S.r mct  2    0  > Yemete  >   >    /     ktowlands
JUJ                De<Rbe       X             A                  SWrlO      QrLy \., OK    50 100  10
fl        / \\  ~~~~~~OSta"   %"X]M£                                                  so  100 15 me   5
V   g   d   t   X    r                                'j    v   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J KlLOttETER5
C° r,AnKCEA-C: Atr / \ o \al ] ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A  Z  I L
'oAnm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
,'                      n ,87022 C9'if   ss ns   stEIn   9  \
tubm x~~~~~~~ttne   |e4 T                       bte.  yet 00005           =       pRedsI
$  SA    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7             / ~~~~~~~~~~PARAGUAY    Po... 
ollgA~~~~~~~~?-*. . BRAZIL
PACIFIC" C Hr°Ee I4ew L9 E   k   a       n       R      ?     I  
4ntrt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 2. tFoo,dolr.
OaARGE             TINA                           2                 r > .          , -  I j PARAGEN
L-<   A                  N\o EoN, ,,,                                  2CN1
JUNE 1"13



IBRD 24fl1
8  Rs  A  Z  I L                                      BO L I V I A
IoP _ $  I  MUNICIPAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINIF . PROGRAM
PROGRAM BENEFICIARIE'
ROADS:
*       e         f       \ >  tX                      Sicaba Program Beneficiaries       Secondary
------Tracks
Ferry Lines
/At ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-xZRiyers
o   Towns
National Capitol
Department Bounlor,es
J-. -   rInternotonol Boundornes
Altiplano
som                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Valleys
P E R U                              S.o 2ta Aint °S<L< esd
De Yacume                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lowlanids
pm"o -0  %onto Roc    B                              E                                 I .MILES
t  ,.9  ^ pe ,   A ~~,,Sc           f                                       t    }Or        1X0  I5  2u0  25
;atBoric ESNlOAD fi i 0  /cic                                  J          rKL>ETERS
gh WtKEo  6 \                                                 \    1  B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A Z I L
SALTPN               *                             /      PARAY Rb                        /
PACIF   C  H      E                                                                       C  R U  Z
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                             Thron ho bee prpo (~C~ \ l         --
PA  R UA                             N H  I     N A      !                        )      f  g
OCEAw \ r Yh   (|    S   t   tS  ;4C i>  a
wln  C  H  Is L E% P 0  T                                         N   A I                          l(R eTN



