Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20473
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25650)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.1 MILLION (USD 42.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A MUNICIPAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 30, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos
Bs6.12 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.16 = Bs 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FNDR        -    Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (National Fund for Regional Development)
GMLP        -    Gobierno Municipal de La Paz (La Paz Municipal Government)
MDI         -    Municipal Development Institute
MHD         -    Ministry of Human Development
PRODEMU  -    Programa de Desarrollo Municipal (Municipal Sector Development Project)
SAFCO       -    Sistema Integrado de Administracion Financiera y Control (Integrated Financial
Management and Control System)
SlIM        -    Sistema Integrado de Ingresos Municipales (Integrated Municipal Revenue System)
SIMAT       -    Sistema Integrado de Administracion Tributaria (Integrated Municipal Tax
Administration System)
SINCOM    -    Sistema Integrado de Contabilidad Municipal (Integrated Municipal Accounting
System)
SNPP       -    Secretaria Nacional de Participaci6n Popular (National Secretariat for Popular
Participation)
VPPFM       -    Viceministerio de Participaci6n y Fortalecimiento Municipal (Vice-ministry of Popular
Participation and Municipal Development)
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Eleoterio Codato



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                            15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Docunents                                                 27
Maps: IBRD 24920, IBRD 24921
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Projecl ID: P006190                                      Project Name: Municipal Sector Development
Project
Team Leader: Eleoterio Codato                            TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 30, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Municipal Sector Development Project          L/C/TF Number: IDA-25650
Cotntry/Department: BOLIVIA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/30/1991                             Effective: 07/05/94           08/11/94
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                               MTR: 10/09/96             10/09/96
Approval: 02/08/1994                              Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVMT OF BOLIVIA/MPC & FNDR
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David De Ferranti                         S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                        Yoshiake Abe
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                          Graham Smith
Team Leader at ICR:   Eleoterio Codato                        Gianni Brizzi
ICR Primary Author:   Emrnmanuel N. Njomo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Promoting efficient municipal management in support of effective decentralization; improving resource
mobilization and allocation for municipal investment projects; alleviating urban poverty and encouraging
balanced regional development.



3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project Objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
COMPONENT                                COST (US$mln)
Institutional Development
MHD Studies & TA                                 0.8
Civil Service                                    0.3
MDI                                              2.5
Municipal Strengthening
TA and Training                                  5.1
La Paz Env. Management                           0.8
Investment Financing
Subloans                                       26.5
Matching Grants                                  8.7
Capital Grants                                   8.7
Pre-Investment Studies                           1.6
PPF Refinancing & Contingencies                        2.7
TOTAL                                           58.0
3.4 Revised Components:
Following the approval of the project by the Executive Directors on February 8, 1994, there were several
structural changes which necessitated changes to the project components and implementation arrangements.
The Popular Participation Law was enacted later that year which resulted in an increase in the number of
municipal governments from 21 to 311 and in the transfer of responsibility for municipal development
from the Ministry of Human Development (MHD) to the Ministry of Sustainable Development, specifically
to the Viceministry of Popular Participation and Municipal Strengthening (VPPFM). In May 1995, the
Government and IDA agreed on the first amendment to the Development Credit Agreement which
eliminated the MDH's Institutional Strengthening component. A second amendment in October 1995
transferred the implementation responsibility of parts of the Municipal Strengthening component to the
Ministry of Sustainable Development. A third amendment in February 1997 eliminated the Municipal
Development Institute (MDI) from the project and changed the focus of the La Paz component from
improving the environmental management of La Paz to its municipal strengthening. The net result of these
changes were as follows: (i) the sub-components dealing with Municipal Civil Service Reform and Civil
Service Reform Pilot Projects were incorporated into the Institutional Strengthening sub-component; (ii)
the number of municipalities to be assisted by FNDR was increased from 26 to 77; (iii) the MDI was
eliminated from the project and the funds originally allocated to MDI were transferred to VPPFM and the
National Secretariat for Popular Participation (SNPP) for additional municipal strengthening activities;
(iv) the La Paz Environmental Management component was changed to Municipal Strengthening of
selected sub-mayoralties and support for private sector participation in the provision of selected municipal
services; and (v) a second special account was established for SNPP and the National Fund for Regional
Development (FNDR) special account was increased to US$3 million. These changes effectively reduced
the number of project components to two: Municipal Strengthening with 3 executing agencies and
Municipal Infrastructure Investment executed by FNDR.
-2-



Revised Project Components                            COST (US$mln)
COMPONENT                                      Revised              Actual
Municipal Strengthening by SNPP                  1.34                 0.81
Municipal Strengthening by FNDR                  5.06                 5.42
Municipal Strengthening by GM La Paz             0.80                 0.58
Municipal Infrastructure Investments            49.36                47.95
TOTAL                                         56.56               54.76
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS objectives
and government priorities. In addition, despite changes in government during project implementation, the
government's commitment to the project remained high. The original project design took into account the
lessons of the two previous municipal and urban development projects in Bolivia and careful preparation of
the infrastructure investment component assured that there would be a sufficient number of well-prepared
sub-projects to ensure a timely commitment of the credit funds allocated for this purpose. Given the weak
institutional performance of the previous operations in the sector, the project design built in several
mini-pilots schemes within the municipal strengthening component of the project, which enabled actions to
be tested before they were applied on a large scale under this project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective (i): Promoting efficient municipal management in support of effective decentralization. (Rating:
S). The promotion of efficient municipal management was principally attained through the development of
modular programs by FNDR (for 77 municipalities) and VPPFM/SNPP (for 28 municipalities) aimed at
improving the administrative systems of municipalities in support of the Popular Participation Law of April
20, 1994, as well as the Administrative Decentralization Law of July 28, 1995 (Law 1178), and training of
municipal staff in their use. The FNDR and VPPFM/SNPP developed modules related to the 7
administrative and governmental control systems and social management goals required for improving:
Administration and Governmental Control; Operations Programming; Administration of Goods and
Services; Integrated System for Municipal Accounting (SINCOM); Budgeting; Integrated System for
Municipal Tax Administration (SIMAT), which is a part of the Integrated System for Municipal Revenues
(SIIM); Management of Administration and Personnel. In addition FNDR provided assistance that was
direct]Ly linked to the undertaking of municipal investments and the provision of urban services as well as in
improving cadastre, which led to revenue enhancements. Despite a shaky start, VPPFM/SNPP developed
an implementation strategy, designed a program for strengthening the career of municipal workers and
developed a specific program for prefectures. The Municipality of La Paz strengthened the administration
of 2 sub-mayoralties and also strengthened the capacity of several municipal entities. Although there are
not yet any detailed impact studies, preliminary evidence from several municipalities including La Paz,
Cochabamba, and Montero confirms that the project enhanced municipal management through improved
administrative and financial control systems as well as community participation. Furthermore, it attempted
to increase the participation of the private sector in the provision of selected urban services while also
developing a program for enhancing community participation in the implementation of its program of
reforms. The decentralization aspect was addressed through the financing strategy of FNDR (see below).
Objective (ii): Improving resource mobilization and allocation of municipal investment project. (Rating: S).
Sub-projects supported under the project were well prepared, thereby enhancing the chances that sound
projects would be financed in the municipalities. During the preparatory phase of the project, 4 teams -
- 3 -



each one consisting of 6 sectoral experts - assisted the municipalities in preparing institutional development
programs and in identifying priority investment projects for FNDR support. FNDR exhibits considerable
financial discipline in collecting payments from the municipalities and ensuring that the municipalities
provided the necessary counterpart funding called for in the sub-loan agreements, through cost recovery
arrangements or counterpart contributions. By thus increasing the awareness of municipalities with respect
to tariffs and cost recovery in general, FNDR has contributed to the strengthening of resource mobilization
capabilities of the municipalities. In addition FNDR was able to mobilize through the project additional
funding amounting to 36% of the aggregate funds that were utilized for municipal investments. Finally the
sectoral distribution of the sub-project supported under the project (nearly 60% in water supply and
sanitation), as well as the emphasis on the poor and relatively deprived regions of the country, confirms the
economic priority, and hence an appropriate allocation of investments during the project period. In spite of
FNDR's efforts, the allocation of sufficient funding for operations and maintenance emerged as an issue
when Bolivia's macroeconomic environment took a downturn in the latter part of the 1 990s. Arrangements
to monitor revenue-generating subprojects will be incorporated into the next IDA-financed operation.
Objective (iii): Alleviating urban poverty and encouraging balanced regional development. (Rating: S).
FNDR pursued a conscious policy in its financing operations by targeting sub-projects located in low
income areas. FNDR gave priority to areas outside La Paz, Cochabamba, and Santa Cruz, which are
relatively better off compared to the rest of the country. It is estimated that about 78.2% of FNDR
investments were allocated for low income beneficiaries. Furthermore only about 41% of investments were
in the Departments of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, where 60% of the population resides, whereas
59% of investments were in the Departments of Oruro, Potosi, Tarija, Chuquisaca, Beni and Pando where
40% of the population resides. It is noteworthy that the region of Beni in the Amazon jungle, which is
among one of the poorer regions of the country, had the highest investment support from FNDR among all
the regions.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Municipal Strengthening by FNDR. FNDR assisted 79 (vs. 77 planned) municipal governments to
modernize their administrative and governmental control systems. FNDR was able to develop and
implement SIMAT and SINCOM modules in these 79 municipalities. FNDR also assisted 3 Prefectures
and 38 municipal councils. FNDR provided technical assistance and training to staff of the concerned
municipalities and prefectures, using consultants, in the proper use of the administrative and financial
systems alluded to above. FNDR also assisted municipalities in strengthening their capabilities in
implementing projects. This assistance was provided primarily through technical assistance and training
the staff of municipalities, municipal service enterprises, service providers, cooperative service providers
and departmental prefectures in the preparation of pre-investment and feasibility studies, engineering
designs and the development of investment priorities in the rehabilitation, extension and development of
urban infrastructure networks, as well as technical assistance to promote efficient administrative and
financial management (e.g. relating to tariff policies) of municipal governments. During the project
implementation between 1994-1999, about 200 courses and seminars were presented to the staff of the
concerned municipal and departmental institutions by 636 instructors, coordinators and facilitators. Total
personnel trained amounted to about 5,000.
(b) Municipal Strengthening by VPPFM/SNPP. This component, which was formally agreed to by IDA in
July 1998, aimed at institutional strengthening of 26 (vs. 28 planned) selected municipalities after the
program had been tested in 5 pilot municipalities. This component supported the development of 10
modules for strengthening the administrative and financial systems (SINCOM) of the concerned
municipalities, 2 modules on improving the taxation system (SIMAT) and 2 modules for enhancing popular
- 4 -



participation (Gerencia Social). In addition VPPFM/SNPP provided technical assistance and training to
the professional staff of the municipalities in the use of these systems. Training was organized in 14
seminars and workshops and total attendance was about 1,007 municipal officials. The technical
assistance and training were provided primarily by consultants under the supervision of VPPFM/SNPP.
Under this component the VPPFM/SNPP prepared and disseminated an integrated strategy for municipal
strengthening which included a diagnosis of the municipality, an analysis of the impact of Law 1178 on
municipal operations, development prospects as well as possible strategic options. VPPFMISNPP also
prepared a plan for disseminating the short and medium term development plans for the municipality. A
seminar devoted to reviewing international experience and its applicability to the Bolivian context was
organized in Santa Cruz. The other aspects of VPPFM/SNPP's assistance included the creation of a
municipal career stream to upgrade skills, reduce staff turnover, as well as to professionalize the municipal
civil service, and developed 6 modules for the strengthening of the Departmental Units that assist the
municipalities in their day-to-day tasks. About 81 functionaries from 9 prefectures were trained in the use
of these modules.
(c) Mlnicipal Strengthening by GM La Paz. Following the revision of the La Paz component of the project
in February 21, 1997, the emphasis of the component was reoriented from environmental management and
improving water quality testing of the University of La Paz to the strengthening of the general capabilities
of the municipality. Specifically the project supported the modernization of the municipal services through
the introduction of private sector participation in the management of six urban services (slaughterhouse,
general cemetery, the municipal zoo, selected public sanitary facilities, La Paz bus terminal, and municipal
cadastre and the creation of a regulatory mechanism to oversee activities of the private sector firms that
would participate in the privatization exercise. In addition, a contracting unit was established to promote
the transparency of the privatization of the aforementioned city services. The component also included the
modernization of the management systems in the sub-mayoralties of Cotahuma and Zona Sur, including a
support for improving cadastre and regularizing 1000 municipal properties. About 23 studies were
undertaken in support of these items. Even though all the services to be privatized were reviewed and
brought to the point of bidding, the response of the private sector was very poor and only the bus terminal
was successfully privatized. The contract for the municipal cadastre had to be terminated because of the
lack of political will to implement a program that might lead to tax increases. In any event, the failure of
the consultant to comply with the terms of the contract provided the municipal authorities with a convenient
excuse to terminate the contract and end the study. Like the other municipal strengthening components of
the project, this component also included a program for supporting the participation of civil society in the
implementation of the reforms. About 15 studies were successfully undertaken. The popular participation
programs were highly successful and participation of the population was high.
It should be noted that the implementation of the municipal strengthening component by all three executing
agencies was adversely affected by the lack of provision for severance payments in the project financing
plan. As the modules and systems were developed, the mayors sometimes felt constrained because existing
staff could not be trained to operate within the new environment and found it difficult to release the affected
staff because funds were not available to finance the severance packages called for under the civil service
regulations.
(d) Mianicipal Infrastructure Investments. FNDR financed a total of 86 sub-projects for a total of US$49.2
million between 1994 to 1997. The distribution of sub-projects financing was as follows: 7 sub-projects for
US$3.4 million was financed in 1994, 44 sub-projects for US$15.7 million in 1995, 21 sub-projects for
US$15.2 million in 1996 and 14 sub-projects for US$14.9 in 1997. The Department of Santa Cruz had the
largest number of sub-projects at 16, while the Departments of La Paz and Cochabamba had 12 projects
each and the Departments of Potosi and Beni had 11 projects each. Of the 9 Departments, the Department
-5 -



with the least number of projects was Pando with only 4 projects. In terms of amount, the Department
receiving the largest amount of FNDR support was Beni at US$8.8 million. Oruro Department received
US$7.9 million even though only 4 sub-projects were financed in the Department. Pando received the least
amount of funds at about US$1.7 million. In terms of sectoral distribution of the sub-projects financed,
basic sanitation sub-projects (potable water and sewerage, canals and drainage, and urban sanitation)
accounted for 49 sub-projects (or 57 percent of total) for US$39.4 million (or 80 percent of total);
transport sub-projects (roads and bridges, bus terminals) accounted for 19 projects (or about 22 percent of
total) for US$5.9 million (or 12 percent of total), urban facilities (slaughterhouses, markets, parks and
recreation areas, government buildings) accounted for 17 sub-projects (or 20 percent of total) for US$3.8
million (or about 8 percent of total) and 1 energy sub-project (or 1 percent, of total) for US$0.07 million (or
slightly over 0.1 percent of total). However it is important to note that in the final years of project
implementation, deteriorating macroeconomic conditions resulted in slower disbursements as the
municipalities began to delay the provision of counterpart funding.
Outcomes of the Investment Financing Component. Overall, anecdotal evidence seems to indicate that the
sub-projects financed by FNDR contributed to the improvement of the quality of life of the urban
population through increasing access to basic services. (A study to assess the impact of both the municipal
strengthening and investment components executed by FNDR was underway during the preparation of the
ICR). Specifically the potable water and sewerage projects enabled the increase in the quality and quantity
of water as well as increasing its availability. The increase in coverage resulted in health benefits to the
population and time savings in the fetching of water. The sewerage projects led to the improvement in
waste water disposal. The canal and drainage projects resulted in an increase in property values and
savings in potential flood damage. These projects also led to land reclamation and significant health
benefits to the beneficiary population. The urban facilities financed by FNDR improved operating
efficiency through the introduction of appropriate technology. The transport sub-projects facilitated the
financing of priority projects and resulted in savings in vehicle operating costs and time savings.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A representative sample of 23 projects financed by FNDR which were subjected to ex post evaluation
yielded the results provided below.
SECTOR        NET PRESENT VALUE                  ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Ex Ante              Ex Post              Ex Ante       Ex Post
Water         $6.2m                $1.6m                        62.7%         20.7%
Urban Inf.    $0.46m               $0.25m                       34.0%         24.0%
Canal & Dr   $0.18m                $0.36m                       22.7%         27.3%
Transport     $0.13m               $0.14m                       16.5%         16.9%
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rates of return were not calculated. However in the ex post evaluation about 3 potable water
and 2 urban sub-projects were found to be generating a negative cash flow during operations. There are
the water supply projects in Riberalta (connections 1,352), Cliza (connections 2,285) and Challapata
(connections 3,499), and 2 urban infrastructure sub-projects (the central market in Colcapirhua and urban
sanitation facilities in Guayaramerin). FNDR operations department is working with these municipalities
to improve the performance of these operations. Details of their costs and benefits stream are available in
the project files.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The assistance provided by FNDR to the municipalities, municipal service enterprises, service providers,
- 6 -



cooperative service providers and departmental prefectures for institutional development resulted in
improvements in the administrative, financial and technical capabilities to implement projects to increase
access to urban services. About 5,000 staff were trained under the institutional development and municipal
strengthening components of the project. The FNDR involvement sensitized these entities to the importance
of cost recovery, given FNDR disciplined approach in collecting debt service payments due to it and in
ensuring that the municipalities make the necessary counterpart funding available. FNDR has laid the
groundwork for the eventual development of the credit market for regional development through its
financing activities, assisting the development of public sector investment plans, and strengthening of the
financial viability of the municipalities through FNDR's investment financing, technical assistance in
developing cost recovery policies and training activities. Through FNDR's intermediation efforts, external
resources were mobilized for municipal investments, albeit from multilateral development banks and other
bilateral sources. At the macro level the municipal strengthening programs supported under the project
emphasized the role of the private sector in the provision of urban services. It also strengthened the
transparency in municipal management by supporting the modalities for increasing community
participation in investment decisions.
The mLunicipal strengthening component of the project also helped strengthen the decentralization process
mandated under the Law of Popular Participation by providing the municipalities with the technical
expertise (through training) and financial resource mobilization (through credit, cost recovery policies and
improvement in the management of cadastres) to help bring this about. There is evidence that several
municipalities were able to mobilize additional resources as a result of the improvements in cadastre. This
would be documented as part of the impact study being undertaken by FNDR. VPPFM/SNPP undertook a
study of the impact of its component of the project. The review consisted of a survey of the municipalities,
however assessments were not linked to outcomes of the assistance provided. The La Paz component
supported the establishment of a procurement unit for the municipality, with rules and procedures to
enhance transparency, equity, and competition in procurement. La Paz procurement performance has
generally not been good and remains problematical. Even though the objective to privatize the services was
not successful, the basis for undertaking a similar effort in the future had been established. The component
also supported the development of a computerized data base of past laws and regulations of the
municipality covering the period from 1958-1998. This made the municipal council more efficient since
councilors had access to all previous related legislation before passing new city ordinances. As new
ordinances are passed the system is updated.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of the Government or implementing agencies:
a. High turnover of mayors. The term of each mayor is reviewed at the end of the year, during which
his/her performance is assessed. If the performance is deemed unsatisfactory, the members of the
municipal council can vote the mayor out of office and replace him with a council member. Over the years,
this practice has become politicized and mayors have been known to be dismissed for reasons unrelated to
performance. The prevalence of this practice have resulted in a high turnover of mayors, which had an
adverse impact on the implementation of the municipal strengthening component of the project. For
instance, La Paz had 5 mayors during the project implementation period. The municipal infrastructure
investment component has been less affected, since the services of contractors are ordinarily governed by
contract.
b. Changing institutional context. After the project was approved by the IDA executive directors in 1994,
- 7 -



the Government passed the Law for Popular Participation later in the year which changed the institutional
context under which the project was to be implemented and increased the number of municipal governments
from 21 to 311. While the law furthered the objectives of the project, it also changed the ministry
responsible for the municipalities, from the Ministry of Human Development to the Ministry of Sustainable
Development and Planning, specifically the Viceministerio de Participacion y Fortalecimiento Municipal -
VPPFM. The VPPFM assumed responsibility for SNPP and the implementation of the municipal
strengthening component of the project. Unfortunately, its oversight of the urban and water sectors was
transferred to the newly created Ministry of Housing and Public Services. The Municipal Development
Institute was dropped from the project because of the initial failure on the part of the Borrower to have
ownership of the sub-component. In addition the mayor of the Municipality of La Paz also changed, which
led to the amendment of the La Paz component of the project, reorienting its focus from improving the
environmental management of La Paz to a general strengthening of the municipal capabilities and
assistance in the privatization of selected municipal services in part because the initial ownership of the
component was weak and because grants funds later became available to finance environmental
improvement. Credit is due to the resilience of IDA staff and to the significant Government commitment to
the project objectives that the project continued to be largely satisfactorily implemented in spite of these
many changes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(a) Lack of continuity of staff at all the implementing agencies. In addition to mayors, the frequency of
change in personnel of the project executing agencies was quite high. For example the Govemment
appointed 4 Director Generals at FNDR between 1994 and 1998. The severity of this problem would be
expected to be less today given the increase in electoral terms. In reality, the extent to which the problem of
turnover would be solved is dependent on the role of patronage in making appointments. Furthermore the
changes in personnel inevitably led to policy changes and/or reversals.
(b) Lack of sector and project coordination. During project implementation there was limited coordination
at the sector level for donors active in the sector although this situation will not exist today because of the
CDF. At the project level the VPPFM/SNPP requested the establishment of a second special account
which down-graded the coordinating function that FNDR had exercised when it had the sole responsibility
for managing disbursements requests under the project. This eventually led to a situation where 15
disbursement categories (and 2 special accounts) were established to keep track of the disbursements
activities of each project executing agency.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a) Weak VPPFM/SNPP. Following the transfer of the responsibility of the municipal sector from the
Ministry of Human Development to the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Planning, the titular
ministry of VPPFM to which SNPP was transferred, insufficient efforts were made to strengthen the
project management capabilities of SNPP. Its financial management and accounting system was not well
developed, and its management information system was limited. In addition, SNPP was not conversant
with IDA procurement procedures. These shortcomings resulted in the use of staff and systems of the
project implementing unit of the Rural Communities Development Project (PCDR) to support the
implementation of the SNPP component.
(b) Lack of counterpart funding. Toward the end of the project implementation, the municipalities began
experiencing difficulties in providing the needed counterpart funding, with the result that disbursement
slowed. About US$2 million of the Credit remains outstanding and will be canceled as soon as the
-8 -



documentation related to the special account is completed.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Despite significant changes to the project components, there were no major deviations from revised costs
and financing plan. The municipal strengthening component financed by VPPFMISNPP amounted to
US$0.81 million (vs. US$1.34 million) or 60%, comparable figures for FNDR were US$5.42 million (vs.
US$5.06 million) or 107%, and for La Paz US$0.58 million (vs. US$0.8 million) or 72%. The municipal
infrastructure investment component amounted to US$47.95 million (vs. US$49.36 million) or 103%. The
project was financed as follows: IDA US$35.98 million (or 65.7 %); local sources such as municipalities
and municipal owned entities, US$16.03 million (or 29.3%); Central Govemment, US$2.53 million (or
4.6%) from funds provided by Belgian assistance; FNDR, US$0.22 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rat'ionalefor sustainability rating:
The prospects for maintaining the achievements attained under the municipal strengthening component of
the prqject are supported by the fact that the Govemment of Bolivia is committed to the Law of Popular
Participation. Its continued implementation would foster transparency and ensure that the administrative,
financial, management and other reforms supported under the project through the development of
administrative and financial systems, technical assistance and training would continue to be in force. With
respect to the infrastructure investments, the prospect for their sustainability appears good, although
continuous monitoring will be necessary. The ex post evaluation of the sub-projects points to the viability
of the projects, despite the fact that the ex post profitability was lower than expected for some of the
revenue generating projects in the sample. FNDR has emerged as one of the most effective financial
institutions in the country and in the future it might be able to mobilize resources from the private capital
markets. Nevertheless, the need to promote sustainability of the reforms and municipal investments
financed under the project was formalized at the project design stage. Sector studies would have been
planned, linked to indicators that would have served to help monitor the sustainability of the implemented
reforms and investments.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
IDA is in the process of preparing a follow-up project to this project so that the close working relationship
that developed with the IDA will continue and some of the institutional development work relating to the
development of long term strategy for municipal strengthening will continue under the follow-up project.
Furthermore, FNDR would continue to receive support from the IDB, which ensures that the flow of
investment assistance to the municipalities would continue, as would the monitoring of entities that have
benefited from FNDR assistance. Agreement was reached as part of the ICR on a simplified set of
monitoring indicators for the project that would form part of the next operation. The indicators call for
maintaining a minimum collection ratio of at least 85% of bills issued and a working ratio of 110% for
revenue generating projects; and for non-revenue generation projects sustaining a level of facilities
maintenance that is consistent with sound engineering practices. These indicators and the ones to be
developed for the future operations should be monitored under the next operation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA fielded a team of multi-sectoral experts to assist with the preparation of the project. The dialogue with
the Govemment was good and the project that evolved was entirely consistent with the Bank Group country
assistance strategy and priorities. The passing of the Law of Popular Participation changed the
-9-



institutional context within which the project would be subsequently implemented; however, the new law
supported and in fact reinforced the objectives and priorities of the project and sector. IDA spent from its
internal budgetary resources 60.6 staff weeks to prepare the project at a cost of about US$168,000, and 45
staff weeks to appraise the project at a cost of about US$102,000. In addition 16 staff weeks of services
costing about US$29,000 were financed using trust fund resources. The project design took into account
the lessons of the two previous municipal and urban development projects in Bolivia which related mainly
to the weak institutional capabilities of municipal institutions. The short electoral mandate and other
political constraints to proper project implementation that had affected the two previous operations also
adversely affected the implementation of this project. The project design had two interesting features: (i)
FNDR had a robust pipeline of well-prepared sub-projects, which enabled the credit funds allocated to the
municipal infrastructure investment component to be committed about one year ahead of schedule; (ii) the
project built in several mini-pilots schemes within the municipal strengthening component of the project,
which enabled actions to be tested before they were applied on a large scale within the project.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA supervision effort was satisfactory. About 131 staff weeks costing about US$251,000 was expended
on supervision. The dialogue was good, and there was continuity in task team membership. A mid-term
review was undertaken; however, the mid-term review mission missed an opportunity to devise more
appropriate performance indicators for the project. The team might have been influenced by the quick
commitment of project funds and the fact that the project objectives were not amenable to simple
quantifiable indicators. Also, the decision to create two special accounts, the second one being established
with funds from the first, without a pre-transfer audit is questionable. Subsequently, the auditor questioned
some expenditures made via the VPPFM/SNPP special account for lack of proper documentation.
However these are relatively minor sins of omission.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Given (i) the development of the modules and systems in support of municipal strengthening and the large
number of staff trained under the project; (ii) the fact that the credit funds allocated to the municipal
infrastructure investment component were committed one year ahead of schedule despite the changing
institutional context in which the project was implemented; and (iii) initial encouraging results of the
ex-post evaluation of the sample of FNDR investments, the overall IDA lending and supervision
performance is rated as satisfactory. In fact, IDA staff should be commended that they were able to
maintain the project in satisfactory status even though the institutional context of the project, its
components, and implementation arrangements underwent significant changes.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
With PPF funding of US$1.35 million, the Government engaged consultants (4 teams of 6 sectoral experts
each) to prepare institutional development programs and priority investment projects for financing under
the infrastructure development component. The Government also financed engineering studies for water
supply and sanitation projects with community participation in their implementation. This approach
proved quite effective in strengthening local commitment to the program.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The commitment to project goals remained
high throughout project implementation. The problem of the short electoral terms was addressed with the
change in the constitution to increase the terms of elected officials from 2 years to 4 years, although the
annual review of the performance of mayors persists. The main concern was the high turnover of mayors,
- 1 0 -



SNPP/VPPFM staff, and the frequent changes made by the Government at FNDR.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The performance of the FNDR was satisfactory. FNDR (and IDA) deserve credit for the careful
preparation of the municipal infrastructure investment component. However the many contract changes
(although relatively small amounts) that were encountered during project implementation would need to be
addressed. The institutional capabilities of SNPP/VPPFM were weak and its performance is considered
unsatisf'actory. Due to the limited success in attracting the private sector to participate in providing the
municipal services in La Paz, the performance of La Paz is also considered unsatisfactory, as this
constituted the bulk of the component (over 60%).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, even though the performance of La Paz is rated
unsatisf'actory. The La Paz component amounts to only about 1% of the total project cost.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Robust Sub-project Pipeline. The engagement of 4 teams, each with 6 sectoral experts, to prepare
institutional development programs and priority investment projects for financing under the municipal
infrastructure investment component of the project resulted in a robust pipeline of well-prepared
sub-projects prior to approval of the project by IDA's Executive Directors. This resulted in this
component of the project being committed fully one year before the end of the project closing date. In
addition the ex post review of a sample of the sub-projects financed by FNDR provides initial evidence of
the viability of the sub-projects. Both these factors point to the thorough preparation of project
components during project inception which have significant payoffs during project implementation and
perhaps during subsequent operational phases. While this might at first appear obvious, this is a point
worth repeating in this era of hard budget constraints. In countries at a similar stage of development as
Bolivia, which includes many of the countries of Africa and some South Asian countries, a robust
sub-prcject pipeline prior to project approval is important for successful project implementation and thus
resources must be spent up front to develop a reasonable pipeline of projects before a project is approved.
8.2 Built-in Pilot Programs. Beyond the unstable institutional context within which this project was
implemented, the administrative and financial systems, technical assistance and training provided under the
municipal strengthening component of the project were successfully implemented. One of the significant
factors for this success (despite the limited coordination, structural changes in the ministry responsible for
municipal development, and the changes in La Paz municipalities) was the frequent use of pilots. The
VPPFM/SNPP, FNDR, and La Paz Municipality all first tested their assistance program in one or two
entities before adopting the program in question. By doing so, adjustments were made based on actual
experience before assistance programs were instituted under the project. For instance, VPPFMISNPP
discovered that it was preferable to contract out the development of the systems, the training materials and
the conduct of the training rather than to attempt to undertake these activities in-house. Where assistance is
being provided to a number of municipalities under municipal development projects, initiating such a
program in a well selected sample of 2 or 3 municipalities could enhance the program's overall
effectiveness. This technique should be applicable to most multi-year TA and training components of Bank
Group-financed projects.
8.3 Government Commitment. Project implementation benefited from a strong Government commitment to
the project's overall objectives of promoting efficient municipal management. Despite changes that were
brought about by the passing of the Law of Popular Participation following the approval of the project in
-11 -



February 1994, and the institutional changes that were introduced as part of the new law, project
implementation continued to proceed satisfactorily. This favorable outcome is primarily due to the fact that
the changes did not affect the Government's fundamental support for the project, but in fact reinforced it.
Consequently once the new governmental structure was in place, project implementation resumed with
satisfactory results, despite changes in the project components and adjustments in the implementation
arrangements necessitated by these changes. The strong government commitment was important to the
satisfactory outcome in the face of the many changes that accompanied the implementation of the project.
8.4 Needfor Ownership of Project Components. The MDI was eliminated from the project and the funds
originally allocated to MDI were transferred to VPPFM/SNPP for additional municipal strengthening
activities. In addition, the La Paz Environmental Management component was changed to Municipal
Strengthening of selected sub-mayoralties and support for private sector participation in the provision of
selected municipal services. The changes occurred in part because the Borrower did not fully concur with
their initial inclusion in the project. It is important that project components be included only after the
Borrower has confirmed its willingness to include the component in the project. Otherwise changes are
bound to occur, to the detriment of the timely implementation of the project and attainment of the hoped-for
benefits. Luckily in this case the strong Government commitment and the persistence of IDA staff
mitigated these possible adverse effects.
8.5 Inadequate Indicators. The original performance indicators for the project did not cover all the
specific components of the project. For those components that had performance indicators, they were
limited to output indicators with no indication of how project outcomes were to be measured. The
appraisal mission should have designed appropriate indicators to help monitor project sustainability. A
mid-term review took place in October 1996; the mid-term review mission missed an opportunity to devise
more appropriate performance indicators for the project. The team might have been influenced by the
quick commitment of project funds and the fact that the project objectives were not amenable to simple
quantifiable indicators. A good set of performance indicators plays an important role in assisting
borrowers in monitoring a project's progress during implementation and assessing the project's potential
benefits during operation. A simple set of performance indicators has been discussed with Bolivian
authorities for the continuing monitoring of the performance of this project under the follow-up project.
8.6 High Staff Turnover. The number of Bolivian staff that have been involved in project implementation
points to excessive staff turnover. While this high turnover might have been related to the systemic
problem of short electoral terms for national government and municipal officials, especially in the case of
the La Paz component (a problem since remedied), patronage appears to have been a part of the problem.
The changes that occurred during project implementation could be partly attributed to the fact that new
staff who were subsequently responsible for the project did not have the same commitment to the project
items as those who had participated in the preparation of the project. The probability of success of a
project is enhanced, all other aspects being equal, if there is stability in the staff responsible for project
implementation. Staff stability builds institutional memory and facilitates more efficient problem solving.
8.7 Importance of Severance Payments. Severance payments play an important role in the implementation
of institutional reforms, because they facilitate the transformation of the work force to one that would be
more suitable to implement the reform program in question. During implementation of the municipal
strengthening component; many mayors indicated that some of their staff who could not work with the new
systems would nonetheless continue to be employed because of the lack of the means to finance their
departure. The mayors pointed out that, given resource constraints, they could not hire new staff without
releasing unsuitable existing staff. It became clear that had there existed a facility to fund the required
severance payments, it would have facilitated the turnover that was necessary to expedite the
- 12 -



implementation of the municipal reforms. As a result, unsuitable staff continued to be employed because
their departure could not be funded in accordance with civil service rules. Future operations calling for
institutional strengthening requiring higher skill levels or a different skill mix, should take into account the
establishment of a fund to finance the severance payments of staff who chose not to be part of the reforms
or who lacked the requisite skills to perform adequately in the post-reform environment.
8.8 Importance of Counterpart Funding. Implementation of the project confirmed the necessity of
adequate counterpart funding to timely project implementation. Even though the Credit proceeds allocated
to municipal infrastructure component were committed one year before the closing date, the final year of
project implementation suffered because the municipalities delayed the provision of counterpart funding as
a result of adverse macroeconomic developments. The net effect is that about US$2 million of the Credit
proceeds will be canceled. Possible approaches to minimize the burden of counterpart funding on the
public sector might include, strengthening the mobilization of local resources, more reliance on cost
recovery, and increasing the role of the private sector.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. BACKGROUND
The Municipal Development Program (PRODEMU) became effective in June 1994 and coincided with the
institutional reforms process initiated in the country through the Popular Participation Law 1551 (approved
on 04/20/94) and the Administrative Decentralization Law 1654 (approved on 07/28/95). The project's
resources contributed to the strengthening of the Decentralization process.
Readjustments were made to the original program design which eliminated some components and facilitated
the reallocation of funds. The changes made were:
1) Component B: Municipal Strengthening. A New section was added so the program could support the
institutional strengthening of smaller municipalities.
2) Component B.3. Eliminated from the project. It dealt with the creation and strengthening of the
Municipal Development Institute (IDEMU).
3) Component C. Was modified as result of the Ministry for Human Development (MDH) no longer
being the key ministry.
4) Component D. Support to UMSA was canceled. Support to Hydric Basins Management Office of the
La Paz Municipality was modified into "La Paz Institutional Strengthening" in order to provide
technical assistance to the selected municipal services privatization effort.
The above indicated changes resulted in the reallocation of funds impacting no more than 20% of the total
program. Funds initially assigned to canceled components were reallocated to other components without
jeopardizing the fulfillment of the general goals and objectives of the program.
2. OBJECTIVES EVALUATION
The following table shows a general evaluation of the program's objectives:
RESIJLTS:
Relevance: Timely
Effectiveness: Satisfactory
- 13-



Efficiency: Satisfactory
Benefits Substainability: Uncertain
Institutional Development: Substantial
The program initiated activities during a process of institutional changes in the country which provided
timely and effective support to the country's decentralization process.
PRODEMU had a Satisfactory result with regard to the proposed objectives, implemented activities,
resources allocations by regions and investment sectors, and municipal and community impact.
Due to change orders in the investment projects, the final evaluation of the applied funds shows a deviation
of only 6.5% of committed funds and actual expenditures. Similarly, terms for completion did not have
significant variations. These items are rated as Satisfactory.
The program's probability of maintaining the results obtained during the operation phase of the financed
projects is Uncertain due to a still present political interference on the decision-making process for
institutional and financial management, and staff turn-over which has been already observed in the Staff
Appraisal Report as a main risk. In the other hand, the economic crisis confronted by the country as a
consequence of the economic instability in international markets - which affected countries with strong
commercial ties with Bolivia - strongly affected the population, diminishing its purchasing power and
demand for and use of services provided by sectors financed by the program. Consequently, this would
have an effect on the financial viability of the operating entities indicating an uncertain economic and
financial sustainability of the projects.
The impact on Institutional Development is considered Substantial since the program operations
contributed to the take-off of a credit market for local and regional development. This established FNDR
as a national development financing entity allowing it to attract new external financial resources and apply
its own generated resources equitably among the regions. Through the management and offer of FNDR
credit for local public services, concession and privatization schemes have been stimulated increasing their
efficiency and services provided without overcharging municipalities with new activities. At the same time,
regional entities have been strengthened through institutional strengthening projects improving management
capabilities.
3. PROGRAM IMPACT
In addition to financing infrastructure and basic services, the program also supported the municipal
institutional strengthening, allowing local entities to improve their administrative operations.
Municipal government resources, used in investment projects, have improved regional infrastructures and
increased basic public services implementing 60 investment projects of high local and regional impact.
Use and allocation of funds in priority municipal investments were strengthened with the financial
intermediation, and an incentive system was developed based on the transfer of non-reimbursable resources
to the investment.
Urban poverty reduction and balanced regional development was achieved through the 78.24% distributive
impact; therefore, the program in general had a high social impact.
4. LEARNED LESSONS
With the injection of program resources in public investment and the access and consolidation of a local
credit market, the decentralization process and the strengthening of regional entities have taken root,
- 14 -



solidifying municipal authority over public services which were previously ambiguously provided by
central and local government agencies. These lessons should be considered and incorporated in future
operations.
The program shows certain weakness in the sustainability of the services since the operating entities exhibit
a low institutional and financial capability to operate and maintain the investments. This aspect, which is
part of the weaknesses in the initial process, should be taken into consideration during the preparation of
future operations, incorporating follow-ups and constant monitoring in order to guarantee the sustainability
of the investments.
Thefollowing is the unedited Spanish-version Executive Summary of the Borrower's ICR.
PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO MUNICIPAL (PRODEMU)
CREDITO 2565-BO - BANCO MUNDIAL
RESUMEN EJECUTIVO
Ejecutor: Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR)
Componentes Ejecutados: A - Bib - B2a - B2b
1. ANTECEDENTES
El Progiama de Desarrollo Municipal (PRODEMU) entr6 en vigencia en junio de 1994, coincidente con el proceso
de reformas institucionales iniciadas en el pais mediante la Ley 1551 de Participaci6n Popular (del 20/04/94) y la
Ley 1654 de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa (del 28/07/95), de manera que los recursos del proyecto han venido a
fortalecer el proceso de Descentralizaci6n.
Al diseino original del programa se realizaron ajustes mediante los cuales se anulan algunos componentes y se
redistribuyen los recursos. Los cambios efectuados consisten en:
1) En el componente B: Fortalecirniento Municipal, se aiiadi6 una secci6n nueva para que el programa pueda
apoyar con fortalecimniento institucional a municipios pequentos.
2) El componente B.3, fue elirninado del proyecto, referente a la creaci6n y fortalecimiento del IDEMU.
3) El componente C, fue modificado ya que el Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano (MDH) ya no era el Ministerio
clave.
4) En el componente D, el apoyo a la UMSA fue eliminado y el apoyo a la Direcci6n de Cuencas Hidricas de la
Alcaldia de La Paz, fue modificado a "Fortalecimniento Institucional de La Paz", para brindar asistencia tecnica al
proceso de privatizaci6n para servicios municipales escogidos
Los carnbios anteriores, ocasionaron una redistribuci6n de los recursos del programa, que no afectan a mas del 20%
del total del Prograrna, sin embargo los recursos que inicialnente estaban previstos para los Componentes que
fueron elininados del programa, se redistribuyeron en los otros Componentes, sin afectar el cumplimiento de los
objetivos y metas generales del Programa.
-15-



2. EVALUACION DE OBJETIVOS
En el siguiente cuadro se presenta una evaluaci6n general de los objetivos del programa:
RESULTADOS OBTENIDOS                 SOSTENIBILIDAD   DESARROLLO
PERTINENCIA    EFICACIA         EFICIENCIA    DE BENEFICIOS   INSTITUCIONAL
Oportuna      Satisfactorio   Satisfactorio       Incierta         Sustancial
El programa entro en vigencia en un proceso de cambios institucionales en el pais, lo que permiti6 que su ejecuci6n
apoyara de manera muy oportuna y efectiva al proceso de Descentralizaci6n del pais.
Respecto a los objetivos planteados, las actividades desarrolladas, la asignaci6n de recursos por regi6n y sectores de
inversi6n y el impacto en los municipios y en la comunidad, el PRODEMU tuvo un resultado que puede calificarse
como Satisfactorio.
La evaluaci6n final de la aplicaci6n de los recursos del programa muestra que existi6 una desviaci6n de solamente el
6.5% entre los recursos comprometidos y ejecutados, debido a Ordenes de Carnbio en los proyectos de inversi6n. De
igual manera no se observan variaciones significativas en los plazos de ejecuci6n de los proyectos fmanciados. Estos
aspectos pueden ser calificados respecto al resultado general del programa como Satisfactorios.
En lo referente a la probabilidad que tiene el programa de mantener los resultados obtenidos durante la fase de
operaci6n de los proyectos fmianciados, esta se puede calificar como Incierta, debido a que se observa aun una
interferencia politica en la toma de decisiones sobre el manejo institucional y fmanciero, asi como en la estabilidad
de los funcionarios, ya reconocida en el Staff Appraisal Report como los riesgos principales del programa. Por otro
lado, la crisis econ6mica del pafs, influida por la inestabilidad econ6mica en los mercados intemacionales que afecto
de manera directa a los paises con los que Bolivia mantiene fuertes lazos comerciales, afect6 decididamente en la
poblaci6n, reduciendo su capacidad de pago y por ende la demanda y uso de servicios provistos por los principales
sectores financiados con recursos del programa. Esto impacta en la viabilidad financiera de los entes operadores,
mostrando una Incierta sostenibilidad econ6mica y financiera de los proyectos.
El imnpacto del programa en el Desarrollo Institucional se califica como Sustancial, debido a la operaci6n contribuyo
al inicio de un mercado de credito para el desarrollo regional y local, consolidando el FNDR como una entidad
fimanciera de desarrollo con alcance nacional, que posibilit6 a esta instituci6n captar nuevos recursos de
fmanciamiento extemo y. aplicar los recursos propios generados, equitativamente en las regiones. Mediante la
gesti6n y oferta de los creditos del FNDR, para la provision de servicios puiblicos locales, se han estimulado los
esquemas de concesi6n y privatizaci6n que permiten aumentar su eficiencia y cobertura, sin sobrecargar a los
municipios con nuevas actividades, paralelamente se ha fortalecido las entidades territoriales, a traves de proyectos
de fortalecimiento institucional con el mejoramiento de la capacidad administrativa y de gesti6n.
3. IMPACTO DEL PROGRAMA
Ademas de financiar la inversi6n para la provisi6n de infraestructura y servicios basicos, el programa a realizado el
fortalecirniento institucional municipal, lo que permniti6 a las entidades locales el mejoramiento de su gesti6n
institucional.
Los recursos de los gobiemos municipales, que han sido movilizados por efecto del financiamiento a proyectos de
inversi6n, han permitido el mejoramiento de la infraestructura fisica regional y el incremento de la cobertura de
servicios puiblicos basicos, cuyo objetivo ha sido cumplido con la ejecuci6n de 60 importantes proyectos de inversi6n
de alto impacto regional y local.
La movilizaci6n y asignaci6n de recursos en inversiones municipales prioritarias se han fortalecido a traves de la
intermediaci6n financiera y han desarrollado un sistema de incentivos basado en la transferencia de recursos no
- 16 -



reembolsables a la inversi6n.
La reducci6n de la pobreza urbana y el logro del desarrollo regional equilibrado, han sido cumplidos a traves del
impacto distributivo del 78.24%, por tanto, el programa en su conjunto present6 un alto grado de impacto social.
4. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
Con la inyecci6n de recursos del programa para inversi6n publica y la apertura y consolidaci6n del desarrollo de un
mercado de credito local, se ha podido afianzar el proceso de descentralizaci6n y el fortalecimiento de las entidades
territoriales, consilidando la autoridad municipal sobre un conjunto de servicios piublicos anteriormente distribuidos
ambiguamente entre las instancias centrales y locales del gobiemo. Lecciones que deberin ser consideradas e
incorporadas en futuras operaciones.
El prograina muestra cierta debilidad en la sostenibilidad de los servicios, ya que las empresas operadoras muestran
baja capacidad institucional y funanciera para la operaci6n y mantenimiento de las inversiones. Este aspecto, que
corresponde a las. debilidades de una etapa inicial del proceso, deberi ser tormado en cuenta en la preparacion de
futuras operaciones, en las que se incorpore un seguimiento y monitoreo permanente que garatice la sostenibilidad
de las inversiones.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
None
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
CSServiceAnd MuR9b41n FDRan h
194          1995             1996           1997
Pbnred ALEI F o           - Aed   flannsctd    Rwned  AiLEI  Planed Adue
O'ASmbe Dnert             2               4        -      4       -       -
Friaiil Slhenirig
Mji6ipaIil~es            2               8       6       8       5       8         6     -      na
StffTrairxd              12      -       48      6       48      62      48       271    -      19
dTinisrWe S      bren
Mricipaliles             2               8       6       8       5       8         6     -      na.
St3ffTra3ed              8       -       32      12      32     103      32       4i -          233
CbsfSa ri   Ccri          10       3      15      87      15      37      -          2    -       29
Cadahe
rq)aution                -       12      8      244      8      149      10        6            8
EsImert                          90      -      1817     6      1439     8        937   -       106B
SAR
INDICATORS                                          Min Ratio
After 1995                1997      1998       1999
Disbursement Growth (annual)                             0.05                 0.25       0.20      0.10
Commitment Growth (annual)                               0.05                 0.24       0.12      0.11
Administrative Costs/Annual Average Assets               0.02                 0.02       0.02      0.02
Administrative Costs/Annual Commitments                  0.06                 0.06       0.15      0.15
Current Ratio (Adm. Costs + Interests/Oper. Income       0.55                 0.33       0.34      0.28
Financial Margin / Average Annual Assets                 0.06                 0.04       0.05      0.06
Gross Financial Margin/Average Liabilities               0.10                 0.10       0.11      0.11
Financial Income / Debt Service                           2:1                 1.76       1.88      3.65
Total Liabilities / Capital                              10:1                 2.90       3.26      2.87
- 18-



Municipal Strengthening Component
Planned   Actual
Sub-Comp. I Institutional Strengthening for
28 Municipal Governments
Training Program for Ind. Professionals
Systern to implement SAFCO                        10       10
Taxation System                                   2         2
Social Participation                              2         2
Assitance Program for Municipalities              8         8
No. of Municipalities Participating              28        26
Follow-up Visits to ascertain Results             4         5
Sub-Comp. II Strategy Formulation & Dissemination
Seminars to disseminate local experience          4         4
Seminars to disseminate International experience  1         1
Design of a Strategy for Municipal Development   n.a.      n.a.
Sub-Comp. III Creation of Muncipal Career Stream   n.a.     n.a.
Sub-Comp. IV Strengthening of Prefectural Units
No training program                               6         6
No of Prefectural Units                           9         9
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
Revised                               Actual
Municipal Strengthening
Municipal Strengthening by SNPP         1.34                                 0.81
Municipal Strengthening by FNDR         5.06                                 5.42
Municipal Strengthening by GM La Paz     0.8                                 0.58
Infrastructure Investments              49.36                                47.95
Total                                   56.56                                54.76
PROJECT COST BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT
(REVISED APPRAISAL ESTIMATE)
Local
Category                ICB  National    Other   Funds       Total
Civil Works             7.86    22.05                8.49     38.4
Goods                   1.86                         0.43     2.29
Services                         8.88      0.56      2.68    12.12
Miscellaneous                              0.44      3.31     3.75
Total                  _9.72    30.93      1.00    14.91     56.56
PROJECT COST BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT
(ACTUAL/LATEST ESTIMATE)
Local
Category                ICB  National    Other   Funds       Total
Civil Works             7.76     17.42               9.82    35.00
Goods                   1.62        0                0.52     2.14
Services                          10.3     0.36      2.21    12.87
Miscellaneous                              0.13      4.62     4.75
Total                   9.38    27.72      0.49     17.17    54.76
PROJECT FINANCING BY COMPONENT
(REVISED APPRAISAL ESTIMATE)
Source
IDA    Local    Other    Total
Municipal Strengthening
Municipal Strengthening by SNPP           0.81      0.53        0      1.34
Municipal Strengthening by FNDR           4.49      0.57        0      5.06
Municipal Strengthening by GM La Paz       0.6       0.2        0       0.8
Infrastructure Investments                33.03      13.8     2.53     49.36
Total                                     38.93      15.1     2.53     56.56
- 20 -



PROJEC(T FINANCING BY COMPONENT
(ACTUAULATEST ESTIMATE)
Source
IDA     Local    Other    FNDR       Total
Municipal Strengthening
Municipal Strengthening by SNPP         0.81        0                          0.81
Municipal Strengthening by FNDR         4.18      1.24                         5.42
Municipal Strengthening by GM La Paz    0.47      0.11                         0.58
Infrastructure Investments              30.52     14.68      2.53     0.22     47.95
Total                                   35.98     16.03      2.53     0.22     54.76
DISBURSEMENTS BY FISCAL YEAR (US DOLLARS)
FY1994   FY1995   FY1996  FY1997   FY1998   FY1999  FY2000
Appraisal Estimates      4.4      7.6       9.1      9.3       8.6      3.0       0.0
Actual (US$ mln)       1.393    1.007    2.032   12.208    9.096    8.056    3.240
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED BY REGION
1994            1995             1996             1997           TOTAL
No   Amount  No    Amount  No    Amount   No    Amount   No    Amount
La Paz          0       -       3    118,944     3  2,434,688    6  1,745,121    12  4,298,753
Cochabamba      0       -       7  2,711,295     4  1,775,342     1   243,186    12  4,729,823
Santa Cruz      0       -      12  4,590,811     2    202,338     2    897,107    16  5,690,256
Potosi          1    15,836     5    774,777     2    681,111     3  5,990,976    11  7,462,700
Oruro           0       -       1  2,405,604     2  3,841,584     1  1,696,743    4  7,943,931
Beni            3 3,315,758     5  1,665,878     3  3,845,282     0       -      11  8,826,918
Chuquisaca      3    50,896     4  1,967,622     0        -       0       -       7  2,018,518
Tarija          0       -       7  1,440,686     1    744,154     1  4,384,984    9  6,569,824
Pando           0       -       0        -      4  1,676.892     0        -       4  1,676,892
Total          7  3.382A90   44  15.675.617   21  15.201.391   14  14.958.117    86 49.217.615
- 21 -



SUBPRJECTS RNANCED BY SECTOR
1994           1995             1996            1997            TOTAL
No   Amast   No    Amoirt   No    A&otlt   ND    Amoat   No    Amout
Basic Sanibtion              2 3,260278    25 11,387,234     9 10,226,544    13 14,544,922    49 39,418,978
PobUe Water and Sevrge     2 3,260,278     3  1,199,940    4  8,157,438     5 11,902,694    14 24,520,350
Cards and Dahage            0      -       9  7,205,475    2  1,754,654     8  2,642,228    19 11,602,357
Urban Infiastuckr          0       -      13  Z981,819     3    314,452     0       -      16  3,296,271
Transpolation                3   96,822    10  2,958,647     6  2,825,934    0        -      19  5,881,403
PRads and ridges           3   96,822      9  2,934,101    6  2,825,934     0        -     18  5,856,857
Bus Temrnis                0       -       1    24,546     0        -       0        -      1    24,546
Urban Facidbes               2   25,391     8  1,260,845     6  2,148,912    1   413,195    17  3,848,343
Ska#duOs%                   0      -       1    25,038      1    26,764     0        -      2     51,802
Markets                    2   25,391      5    745,192    3  1,255,448     0       -      10  2,026,031
Parks and ReaaIion         0       -       1   479,316     2    866,700     1   413,195     4  1,759,211
Governmn  Facibes           0      -       1     11,299    0        -       0        -      1      11,299
Enery Piects                 0       -      1    68,890      0        -      0        -       1    68,890
0 _
TarAL INESTNEfr              7        1   44  15.675.616   21  15.          14  14. 117   86 49.217.614
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
SECTOR               NET PRESENT VALUE                              ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Ex Ante                Ex Post                 Ex Ante                 Ex Post
Water                $6.2m                   $1.6m                      62.70%                 20.70%
Urban Inf.           $0.46m                  $0.25m                        34%                     24%
Canal & Dr           $0.18m                  $0.36m                    22.70%                  27.30%
TransDort            $0.13m                  $0.14m                     16.50%                  16.90%
Water and Sanitation Su b-Proiects with Ex Post Nesative Cash Flow
Riberalta Potable Water    Cliza Sewer and Water      Challapata Sewer and
SuDDlV                 Water Supply
ExAnte   I  ExPost        ExAnte   I  ExPost       -ExAnte   I  ExPost
Investment ($US/year)             3,124,270    3,209,158      774,636       920,686     1,829,199    1,696,743
Loan ($US/year)                   2,186,989    2,246,411      542,245       644,480     1,280,439    1,187,720
Interest Rate                        8.21%        8.76%         8.21%        8.76%         8.21%        8.76%
Consumption (m3lanio)             1,215,552      628,530      242,251       162,120      294,180      227,150
Tariff ($US/m3)                        4.04         4.40         3.58          3.13         3.21          0.50
Op. Cost/Revenue Ratio               75.0%        90.00/0       73.5%        85.0%         80.0%/o      90.0%
Collection Efficiency                95.00%       68.0%         95.0%        86.0%         95.0%        60.0%
Cash Flow
Revenue                        4,665,289    1,880,562      823,896      436,395       897,102       68,145
Operating costs                3,498,966    1,692,506      605,563      370,935       717,682       61,331
Debt service                    258,791       274,751       64,165       78,824       151,517      145,266
AnnualNetFlow                   907.532       -86.695      154.167       -13.365       27.904     -138.451
- 23-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:               _                                       _
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Perfrmance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
March, 1992                   3   U,F,Ec,En,U                           S                  S
July, 1992                    3   U,F,Ec,En,U                           S                  S
Appraisal/Negotiation
March, 1993                   1   U, F                                  S                  S
October, 1993                 1   U, F                                  s                  S
Supervision
February, 1994           1 Lnch.  U,UE,F,E,U,E                          S                  S
September, 1994                8
December, 1994
March, 1995
November, 1995
October, 1996
March, 1997
November, 1997
April, 1998
November, 1999
ICR
April. 2000                   1   U, F                                  S                  S
1/ Key to specialization
U - Urban Specialist           Ec - Economist
F - Financial Specialist       En - Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               60.6                        168.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                      45                        101.6
Supervision                             136.5                        289.7
ICR                                         4                          30
Total                                   246.1                        589.4
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Financial                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
FIEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
[Z Poverty Reduction                0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
[Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
IZ Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
 Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Public sector management                 O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
N Lending                                          OHS*S OU OHU
E Supervision                                      O HS * S  OU  OHU
M Overall                                          OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
F Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  Q HU
I Government implementation performance            O HS O S  O U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                OHS OS  OU  O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS  O  U  O HU
The performance of the Municipality of La Paz in the implementation of the component relating to the
participation of the private sector in the provision of selected urban services has been rated as
unsatisfactory. This component is about 1% of total project cost.
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Additional information is available in the project files as follows:
Ministerio de Hacienda, Vice Ministerio de Presupuesto y Contaduria
Boletin de Coparticipaci6n Tributaria
Ministerio de Hacienda, Vice Ministerio de Inversi6n Publica y Financiamiento Extemo
Ejecucion Presupuestaria, Proyecto de Desarrollo del Sector Municipal
Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Planificacion
Vicemirnisterio de Participaci6n y Fortalecimiento Municipal
Estrategia de Desarrollo Institucional Municipal ( 2 volumes)
Indicadores de Impacto
Informe Final del Consultor Responsable del PRODEMU I
Informe Ejecutivo de Actividades (al 30 de Noviembre de 1999)
Informe Tecnico de Actividades, Componente Fortalecimiento Institucional Gobiemos Municipales
Presentaci6n y Resumen del Componente Fortalecimiento Institucional Gobiemos Municipales
Fortalecimiento Municipal - Un Proceso sin Pausas
Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR)
ICR, Programa de Desarrollo Municipal Componentes A-B lb-B2a-B2b
Trmninos de Referencia, Consultoria para La Ejecuci6n del Programa Fortalecimiento
Institucional Gobiernos Municipales de Chuma, Copacabana, Tipuani y Carabuco.
Impacto del Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional
Terminos de Referencia, Analisis de la Normatividad y Evaluation del Programa de Desarrollo
Municipal (PRODEMU)
Gobienio Municipal de La Paz (GMLP)
Resumen Ejecutivo Proyecto de Fortalecimiento Municipal
Informes, Convenio de Credito 2565-BO
- 27 -



I -28 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24920
7b                                                         66-                   /                                    62- 
B R A  Z I L ,,B oLI VI A
Foro       ToPizovel           MUNICIPAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7D Ri. Bronork                 *;                  Erper.-z^;
To Rio Broncos        pSrnnGunr   'i    Guujoro MRros                         Urban Population of Center Towns:                           ROADS:
,_  ,1#                  Riber Vote  _d    nfX                      -            700,000 persons                            Main
- /   o/j7   ;be71b  ^  >  300,000                         Tracks
\. l   { /i     \ k+<'   5 0 100,000                    Ferry Lines
'K.           ,,-            ~~~~~~~50,000                  ' -zjcier
10,000                                    Rivers
-12P \   X    _/A>  )   \>   *199 Census                            0      Towns                  12:
\t992 Census                                               National Capital
Heattsh                                                                                                                   -.        International Boundaries
. /                                                                       t1R,/ .*9dolN1O, \ _  Altiplano
San Raises
Valleys
Sant17                                                                                                " " ' bf c 4 D Yaa  >  ( A | \ t Lowlands
De 0  Yacurst
S.)L,:$alinas     ey  OSento Rosa                                                                                                         UE
Rey-                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
f'48  A _>tRu~ ~~renbeque                                                                                                     0             50     100        150
ruite Foy
\  Seern Borj                         IDAD                                                          I  0      50    100   150   200   25u
J-;,c-   >  T   s It,    jKILOMETERS
rToi  l  t  iD  SrnJo FEicimTen 01* t, Q 0 0 f > B R A Z I L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                            A          I 
!Eicarmen ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     Te
son Jo"to                      vueeI              
yawAni a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Crsetc 
Y..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
P A RAGU~AY *   BRAI
.      t  *       #                \                iinmsp I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 mon who b.oodre pnhowrd           JAGNINJ/
UYUNI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN 199
of ~od,,, o~d ,,A-on thp
nionnolos. oh ho WoOoBook  - 
Gnoop  hsfeno,ioo5ooose Q-  PA       A        RAI
\  poor . of  Th' WorM ok ro
-idoh.nrr or~ Id-  Thrrr of      AGENTI
and Doers  Sen  aLe~~~~~~~~j~                   h Ig~






IBRD 24921
76t'                                          62
B R A Z I L                                                      BOLIVIA
PoprtoVelho    MUNICIPAL  SECTOR  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
,   Frtolzo g %TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND  TRAINING  PROGRAM
coc:tosa iPROGRAM  BENEFICIARIES
To Rio Br,nco\                          EsperesRO
9Sorrto Rose    Gooz~~~~~~~~~~in,ROADS5
-     ~~~~~~~~~~r   ~~~~~~~~~~.                                                        -      ~~~~~~~~~~~Main
,._ScbQ  Program Beneficiaries             Secondary
\                                                                  --------~~~~T-- Tracks
.....    Ferry  Lines
\ \ { l ,, ~ Rivers
-t2-          \  j'   wP       \,*                                                                                    0   Towns
;J  v6  Notional Capital
Department Boundaries
,.k.                       fn-                                                Internationol Boundaries
SaniR'al-         Io a9dnlera    s9                            Altiplano
[   i  .b tk .        n              Xi OBoures6                               -    Valleys
P E  R U             cmpxa   SoniM acu_                                                                                     Lowlands
>'      ~~~~~Puertol    4 a\                    r       \             
\   S4linc X"   OSontoRosa  B    Q   19   |    \#<                      5           \               MILES
o -     Runaa      ete\-   50  loo  150
>                               . 4  21                                                  ,  S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pet Fy0     
Son Borjo  Piamont Julio                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5to  soo  50c  20'0  25
P A          0                                                 
Chlmr    COH'i ^>h                      o                    z ?enovi                5~an   V       .       ToBsl1
Yopoconi          S  A           A     C  R E                T  I  L
ElCa on~~~~~~~~~~~~   :\
A1r Puo                                                                                        Concepeite /
SALTS PAN<   --                            r_/   51lClr;oSd {>r;;>= fte *                                                            PARAGUBAYsp  PJve
Euna_.                                    R HU  ISA ATo  jr   Poro/REN
C  EnloeRlesTA  A1993RAUZI
Epoitor.lsnVIImn 
VII                                                                                   tT
0                                                                             of neoders ond .e tor the~~~~~~~~~~~~Matra
I     u
iya~~~~~~~OIO                        nera s hTh ol so
SALT PARN                               T I                    oo       he~
A  G ~~ SaSs. Rosono,  Emlsarosci6n ~~~suobncd6n and.JNE1
6Uep          HU eSosAanrgu



