Page  1
October 23, 1995
His Excellency
Fernando Candia
Minister of Finance
Cajon Postal - Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Dear Sir:
Re: Credit No. 2565-BO (Municipal Sector Development Project)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the DCA) between the Republic 
of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association) dated April 5, 1994, as amended.
In response to your request to change the procurement thresholds for works and 
for prior review of cadastre studies financed under the above Credit, and the 
responsibilities for project implementation in view of the recent reorganization of 
the Central Government, we are pleased to inform you that the Association hereby 
agrees to amend the DCA as follows:
1.
Subparagraph (ar) of Section 1.02 is hereby deleted.
2.
Paragraph (a) (i) of Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"shall carry out: (A) Part B. I (a) and Part C of the Project through 
MHD; (B) Parts B.1 (b) and B.2 of the Project through NUID, under the 
management and coordination of FNDR, and subject to the provisions of Section 
3.07 of this Agreement; and (C) Part B.3 through NMI; all with due dilicrence 
and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, management, 
environmental, engineering and financial practices and shall provide, promptly 
as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such Pails of the Project;"
3.
Part C of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"NEFM's Institutional Strenthenina. Strengthening of MBD's policy 
making, advisory, and regulatory capabilities including, inter alia, training 
development of norms and promotional and informational activities."
4.
Part C. I of Section I of Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"1.
 Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, and works 
estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent but not to exceed $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $22,000,000, 
may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association."
5.
Paragraph 2 (a) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read 
as
follows:
"(a) With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded under Part A.1 of 
this Section; (ii) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded under Parts 
C.1 
and C.2 of this Section; (iii) each contract for works to be awarded under 
Part 
C.1 of this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or 
more; (iv) the first two contracts for works to be awarded under Part C.1 of 
this Section regardless of the amount of each such contract; and (v) the first 
two 
contracts for works to be awarded under Part C.2 of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
Page  2
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior 
to making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
6.
Paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read as follows:
"2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts 
estimated to cost less than: (a) $500,000 equivalent each for cadastre 
studies; and (b) $50,000 equivalent each for other studies and training. 
However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to the 
terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to 
single source selection of firms, to assignments of critical nature as 
reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising 
the contract value to: (a) $500,000 equivalent or above for cadastre studies; 
and 
(b) $50,000 equivalent or above for other studies and training."
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original and shall become effective on the date upon which the Association has 
received one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this amendment letter. Upon your confirmation, please return 
one fully executed original to us.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Nicholas Krafft
Acting Director
Country Department III
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Candia Castillo
Authorized Representative
Date:
November 17, 1995
