Page  1
February 21, 1997
His Excellency
Fernando Candia
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Ing. Oscar Arrien
Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional
Avenida 20 de Octubre 2038
Edificio FOCOMIN
La Paz, Bolivia
Excellency and Dear Sir:
Re:
Credit No. 2565-BO (Municipal Sector Development Project)
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement and the
Project Agreement
Please refer to the above captioned Agreements, as amended.
In response to your request, aimed at streamlining the responsibilities for 
Project implementation in view of the administrative reorganization provided by the 
Popular Participation Law and the Decentralization Law, establishing an additional 
Special Account and reallocating part of the proceeds of the Credit, we are pleased to 
inform you that the Association agrees to amend the Credit Agreement and the Project 
Agreement as follows:
Modifications to the Credit Agreement
1.
Sections 1.02 (t), (u) and (v), 3.06 and 3.07 are deleted. All references to 
MDI, MDI Expanded Implementation Agreement and MDI Implementation Agreement are 
consequently deleted. The corresponding sentences are modified so as to preserve the 
meaning of the remaining text.
2.
In Sections 1.02 (ab), (ac), (ad), (aj) and (ak) all references to "RDC" are 
replaced by references to "Prefecture". The corresponding sentences are modified so as 
to preserve the meaning of the remaining text.
3.
Section 1.02 (aj) is amended to read as follows:
 
"'Prefecture' means any of the Borrower's departmental governments 
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Decentralization 
Law (as hereinafter defined);"
4.
Section 1.02 (am) is amended by replacing the words "the account" by the words 
"any of the accounts". All other references to the "Special Account" are replaced by 
references to the "Special Accounts".
5.
Section 1.02 (aq) is deleted. All references to the University of La Paz are 
consequently deleted. The corresponding sentences are modified so as to preserve the 
meaning of the remaining text.
6.
The following paragraphs are inserted at the end of Section 1.02: 
 
"(as)
'Decentralization Law' means the Borrower's Law No. 1654 of July 
28, 1995;
(at)
'PDCR Project Implementation Unit' means the Implementation unit 
established within SNPP (as hereinafter defined) to implement the Rural 
Communities Development Project (Credit No. 2772-BO);
(au)
'PFM Implementation Unit' means the implementation unit 
established within the La Paz Municipality to execute the Municipal 
Strengthening Project (Credit No. 1942-BO);
Page  2
(av)
'Popular Participation Law' means the Borrower's Law No. 1551 of 
April 20, 1994; and
(ax)
'SNPP' means the Borrower's National Undersecretariat of Popular 
Participation, within MDH.".
7.
All references to MDH (other than that of Section 1.02 (w)) are replaced by 
references to SNPP.
8.
Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows:
 
"The Borrower may, for the purposes of each: (i) Parts A, B.1 (b), B.2 
(a), B.2 (b) and D of the Project; and (ii) Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (c) and C of 
the Project, open and maintain in Dollars separate special deposit accounts in 
its Central Bank or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including in the event 
that the deposit accounts are opened in a commercial bank appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
9.
Section 3.01 (i) is amended to read as follows:
 
"shall carry out: (A) Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (c) and C of the Project, 
through SNPP; and (B) Parts A, B.1 (b), B.2 (a), B.2 (b) and D, through FNDR; 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, management, environmental, engineering and financial practices 
and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project;"
10.
Section 3.01 (h) is deleted.
 
11.
Sections 3.06 and 3.07 are deleted. All references to such Sections are 
consequently deleted. The corresponding sentences are modified so as to preserve the 
meaning of the remaining text.
12.
Section 5.01 (g) the words "or the Decentralization Law or the Popular 
Participation Law or their corresponding regulations or any provision thereof" are 
inserted after the words "or the Credit Regulations".
13.
Sections 5.01 (b), (e) and (h) are deleted.
 
14.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in 
Attachment 1 to this Letter.
15.
Paragraphs 2 (d) and (j) of Schedule 1 are deleted.
 
16.
A new Part B.2 (c) of the Project is added in Schedule 2 to read as follows:
 
"Carrying out of Municipal Institutional Strengthening Projects in small 
municipalities."
17.
Part B.3 of the Project is deleted.  All references to such Part of the Project 
are consequently deleted. The corresponding sentences are modified so as to preserve 
the meaning of the remaining text.
18.
Part (D) of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Part D:  La Paz Municipality Institutional Strengthening
1.
Provision of technical assistance to the privatization process for 
selected municipal entities and functions of the La Paz Municipality.
2.  Design and implementation of participatory plans for the La Paz 
Municipality.
19.
Part C.2 of Schedule 3 is amended to read as follows:
 
"2.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to:  (a) $1,700,000 for Part A 
of the Project; (b) $400,000 for Part B.1 of the Project; and (c) $600,000 for 
Part 
B.2 of the Project, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or 
Page  3
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,300,000, may 
be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association."
20.
Schedule 4 is amended to read as set forth in the Attachment to this letter.
 
21.
In Schedule 6: the reference to the "Concerned Entity" are replaced by 
references to "La Paz Municipality"; andparagraph (e) is deleted.
22.
In Schedule 7 the references to "Part A.1 (b) and B.2 or "Parts B.1 (b) and B.2" 
are replaced by references to "Parts A, B.1 (b), B.2 (a), B.2 (b) and D".
Modifications to the Project Agreement
23.
All references to Participating RDC, RDC and RDC Investment Grant are replaced 
by references to Participating Prefecture, Prefecture and Prefecture Investment Grant, 
respectively. The corresponding sentences are modified so as to preserve the meaning 
of the remaining text.
24.
In Whereas (B), Sections 2.01 (a) and (b), 2.03, 2.04, 2.06 (a) and (b), (c) 
(ii), (iii) and (v) and 3.01 (a) the words  "Part A" are replaced by the words "Part 
A, B.1 (b), B.2 (a), B.2 (b) and D".  The corresponding sentences are modified so as 
to preserve the meaning of the remaining text.
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original and shall become effective on the date upon which the Association has 
received one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this amendment letter. Upon your confirmation, please return 
one fully executed original to us.
Sincerely,
/s/ Paul Isenman
Director
Country Department III
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
/s/ Fernando Candia
Fernando Candia
Minister of Finance
Date  March 11, 1997
CONFIRMED:
FONDO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO REGIONAL
/s/ Oscar Arrien
President
Date March 10, 1997
Attachment 1
                      Amount of the Credit           % of
                      Allocated (Expressed       Expenditures
Page  4
Category              in SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Subloans, Treasury   23,674,977            100% of the amount of
     Investment Grants                          the Subloan, Treasury
     and Matching Grants                        Investment Grant and
                                                Matching Grant
(2)  Consultants'                   )
     services and                   )
     training:                      )
                                    )
     (a) for Parts B.1     1,740,000)           100%
         (a), B.2 (c), and          )
         Part C of the              )
         Project                    )
                                    )
     (b) for Parts B.1(b),  3,210,00)           100%
         (a), B.2 (b)               )
         and D of the               )
         Project.                   )
(3)  Goods:                         )
                                    )
     (a) for Part B.1         70,000)            100% of foreign
         (a) and Part C             )            expenditures, 100%
         of the Project             )            of local expenditures
                                    )            (ex-factory cost) and
     (b) for Parts B.1 (b)   450,000)            expenditures for other
         B.2 (a), B.2 (b)           )            locally procured
         and D of the               )            imported items
         Project                    )
(4)  Refunding of Project    965,003             Amounts due pursuant to
     Preparation Advance                         Section 2.02 (c) of this
                                                 agreement.
(5)  Unallocated                   0
     TOTAL                30,100,000
Attachment 2
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2b), (3b), and (5) 
in respect of the Special Account for Parts A, B.1 (b), B.2 (a), B.2 (b) and D of the 
Project, and Categories (2a), (3a), and (4) in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (c) and C of the Project, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
in respect of the Special Account for Parts A, B.1 (b), B.2 (a), B.2 (b) and D of the 
Project and an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts B.1 (a), B.2 (c) and C of the Project, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Page  5
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of it 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
Page  6
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
