Page  1
May 3, 1995
His Excellency
Fernando Cossio Cossio
Minister of Finance
Ms. Gaby Candia de Mercado
Secretary of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Caj6n Postal - Ministeric, de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No.688
La Paz, Bolivia
Dear Sir/Madam:
Bolivia - Credit No. 2565-BO (Municipal Sector Development Project)
Amendment
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between de Republic of Bolivia 
(the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) on the 
abovementioned Prqject~ dated April 5, 1994.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to your request in a letter from the 
Minister of Human Development dated September 14, 1994, the Association hereby agrees 
to amend the Development Credit Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02. A new subparagraph "(ar)" is added to read as follows:
"(ar) "MESD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment and 
Sustainable Development."
2.
Section 3.01 Paragraph (a) (i). The words "(A) Part B.1 (a) and Part C of the 
Project through MHD; (B) Parts B. 1 (b) and B.2 of the Project through MHD," will be 
deleted and replaced by:
"(A) Part C. 1 of the Project through M]HD; (B) Parts B. I (a) and (b), 
B.2 and C.2 of the Project through MESD,".
3.
Schedule 2. Part C is amended to read as follows:
"Part C: 
MESD's and WID's Institutional Strengthenin
1.
Strengthening NEM's policy making, advisory and regulatory 
capabilities including, inter alia, training, development of norms and 
promotional and informational activities in the area of urban development.
2.
Strengthening MESD's policy making, advisory and regulatory 
capabilities including, inter alia, training, the development of non-ns, 
promotional and informational activities in the areas of decentralization 
and municipal 
development."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the form of 
confirmation below and returning the same to the undersigned.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FONO NACIONAL DE DESSARROLLO REGIONAL
Page  2
By /s/ 
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
May 26, 1996
Date:
May 26, 1995
