Report No. PID6711
Project Name                     Cambodia-Road Rehabilitation Project (@+#)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       KHPE4030
Borrower                         Royal Government of Cambodia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT)
Contact: Mr. Tauch Chankosal
Director, Project Implementation Unit
200 Norodom Blvd
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Tel/Fax: 855 23 723 515
Date this PID Prepared           March 4, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         May 25, 1998
Projected Board Date             March 23, 1999
1.      Background
Country Background and Sector Background. Cambodia is a relatively small
country, with a population in mid-1995 of about 10.2 million and a total area
of about 181,000 square kilometers. Approximately 85 percent of the
population live in rural areas. With about 56 persons per square kilometer,
the country is less densely populated than its main neighbors, Vietnam and
Thailand. The per capita GNP in 1995 was about $260, placing Cambodia among
the poorest countries in the world. This is below the level of the late
1960s, indicating that the Cambodian economy still suffers the legacy of
decades of war and internal strife. Agriculture sector accounts for about 45
percent of GDP and 80 percent of the labor force.
Economic Performance. In the late 1980s Cambodia embarked on a transition to
a market economy and has since achieved significant success in stabilizing the
economy and in structural reform. Inflation has been reduced from an average
of 140 percent over the period from 1990-92 to 3.5 percent in 1995. The
balance of payments situation has been marked by large external aid
disbursements, significant foreign direct investment inflows and a consequent
increase in imports. Foreign aid now accounts for about 40 percent of the
national budget. The recent growth in the Cambodian economy has been fairly
satisfactory given the difficult circumstances, with GDP growing at an annual
rate of about 6 percent over the period from 1991 to 1995.
Political Situation. Given Cambodia's recent history and current situation,
the Government's first priority is to address political and social issues.
Until the political situation is stabilized, the Government is likely to
continue its ad hoc, piecemeal approach to the transport sector, focusing on
physical works. The challenge for the Bank and other donors is to assist with
essential physical investments while supporting the development and
elaboration of a policy framework.



The Transport System. The main elements of the inland transport system are
the roads, railways and inland waterways. Most of the road network was
constructed during the first quarter of this century and was designed for
light traffic and small vehicles. At the end of 1995 there were estimated to
be approximately 7,800 kilometers of National and Provincial roads, plus a
rough estimate of about 28,000 kilometers of other roads. Many of the other
roads are essentially trails, with only about 4,000 kilometers considered to
be "trafficable". There are two railway lines with a total of about 650
kilometers. The main inland waterways are the Mekong, Bassac and Tonle Sap
Rivers and Lake. All international port activities are handled in
Sihanoukville and Phnom Penh. In general, apart from a few sections of the
system which have benefited from some relatively recent rehabilitation
efforts, the transport system of Cambodia, after decades of wars and neglected
maintenance has deteriorated to a state where the high costs of transport are
a serious barrier to economic and social development and large parts of the
country are virtually isolated.
Road Transport. Road transportation is estimated to account for over 90
percent of the nation's passenger and cargo volumes and is clearly the
predominant means of transportation in Cambodia. The vehicle fleet at the end
of 1995 was estimated at about 430,000 motorized vehicles. About 379,000 of
these, or almost 90 percent, were motorcycles. There were about 9,000
"heavy" (gross weights between 5 and 20 tons) trucks, 400 articulated
vehicles or larger trucks with gross weights of more than 20 tons and fewer
than 300 buses.
2.      Objectives
The project development objectives are to improve access to rural areas and
build the framework for future sector reform.
3.      Description
The project will be financed by the World Bank, with a contribution from the
Government of Japan (GOJ) for the rehabilitation of NR6. It comprises the
following components:
- Rehabilitation of 89.3 km of NR6, including restoration of ten ancient
bridges; 21.5 km of NR 3, including culvert replacement or repair.
Rehabilitation works include 52 bridges and sub-components for mine and UXO
clearance and protection of cultural heritage;
- Rehabilitation of 4.4 km of urban streets in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville
to serve as on-the-job training for small-scale contractors;
- Procurement of minor equipment for use in road maintenance training;
- Technical Assistance for construction supervision of the civil works on NR3
and NR6;
- Technical Assistance for support to MPWT in institutional and capacity
building, including transport sector policy and Master Plan Development, and
financial and accounting management of project implementation;
- Training courses, workshops, seminars, and consulting services for studies,
progress monitoring, and preparation of a future project.
4.      Financing
Government of Japan (GOJ) had expressed an interest in contributing to the
project
-2-



by undertaking the rehabilitation of 17.5km of NR6 from the eastern outskirts
of Siem Reap to approximately the junction of the Roluos Temple, representing
a cost of about US$5.3 million. The final decision on the financing cannot be
confirmed, however, before December 1999, by which time the project is
expected to be under implementation.
To bridge the time gap and cover a possible, although unlikely, withdrawal of
GOJ, the IDA credit has been increased by US$5.04 million equiv. representing
95t of the cost.  An understanding was reached at negotiations that as soon as
the Japan Investment Grant would become effective, the above amount would be
cancelled from the IDA credit, reducing it to US$40.27 million equiv. in
compliance with the ceiling set at the Project Concept Review Meeting.
Likewise, Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) counterpart would be reduced to
US$2.02 million equiv. from US$2.29 million. The deadline for RGC to confirm
the Grant Agreement is July 1, 2000. The procurement of both supervision and
works of NR6 have been structured with an optional component for the
rehabilitation of the 17.5km section that will be exercised after July 1, 2000
if the Japan Investment Grant has not materialized.
5.      Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities were
completed by end of May 1998. The procurement documents for the first year's
activities are complete and general and specific procurement notices have been
advertised. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to
be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
6.      Sustainability
Two factors are essential to ensure the successful performance of the project
roads over their design life: the capability to plan and execute routine and
periodic maintenance in a professional manner, and the availability of
sufficient funds at the proper time. The project addresses the first factor
directly through technical assistance and training in road maintenance
operations and management, thereby strengthening ongoing efforts by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) and GOJ. It addresses the second factor indirectly
through technical assistance in the highway management field, including
planning, programming and budgeting. Further, through the development of a
Transport Sector Policy, the project supports the identification of
operational, regulatory, and financial reforms needed to establish a
sustainable basis for the transport sector.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The Government's ability to mobilize sufficient local resources to meet
requirements for counterpart funding is extremely limited. Requirements for
local funding have been kept to a minimum, and the policy discussions to be
conducted during project implementation will include possible means of raising
such funds.
Coordination between donors must be improved to avoid duplication of efforts
and to generate synergies. The creation of a road subsector database as part
of project technical assistance, including works carried out by other donors,
aims to help bridge communication gaps.
Capacity development and sector reform are long-term processes; expectations
must be kept realistic in a country dealing with political instability and
weak foundations of skills and experience. The scope of the project has
-3 -



therefore been limited so that the current policy and institutional framework
will support its implementation--no policy or institutional changes are
required to successfully implement the physical components of the project.
Technical assistance has been included in the project to help MPWT begin this
long-term sector policy development process.
Finally, although security along NR6 has improved recently, vigilance must be
maintained in monitoring the situation. A mine-clearing sub-component has
been included to ensure that civil works are not carried out in an environment
of undue risk.
8.      Poverty Category
The project does not include a specific program of targeted interventions to
reduce poverty. However, it has indirect impact on poverty alleviation
through the reduction of transport costs, improve access and mobility,
integration of remote areas with its capital and through the creation of
additional jobs for semi-skilled and unskilled labor on construction contracts
during implementation.
9.      Environment and Social Aspects
The project will bring improved access to goods and services to virtually
everyone living in proximity to improved roads. Because the project entails
no new road construction, there is no need for land acquisition. Nonetheless,
road widening is expected to affect about 1818 households using space within
the right-of-way. More than 95t of the people affected can be accommodated
by "shifting back" within the right-of-way. About 71 houses or small shops
cannot be accommodated within the right-of-way and owners have no other land.
The government has agreed to provide replacement land in these cases. Owners
of houses and shops required to move back will be compensated, and each
affected household will receive a transition allowance. Fruit trees, crops,
and ponds will be compensated or replaced. Households shifting back within
the right-of-way will obtain formal permission to continue use of unaffected
areas for at least 10 years. Full details are provided in a separate
Resettlement Action Plan.
The environmental assessment (EA) was carried out as part of the preparation
study of this project. As a Category B project, it does not require a full
EA. During the EA work, local government and other concerned bodies were
consulted. The final report of environmental analysis, prepared as a part of
the study report, was submitted to the Bank on May 29, 1998 and found
satisfactory. Formal clearance was given on June 16, 1998.
Since most of the project components are rehabilitation works within the
existing right-of -way and the projected increase in traffic volume is not
environmentally significant, no significant impacts on physical environment
are envisaged during either the construction or operation phases. The project
could have an impact on noise and air pollution during the construction phase
(all provinces), and on historical bridges and trees along the alignment (Siem
Reap Province).
The environmental management action plan (EMAP) specifies appropriate
mitigation measures, including adequate selection of engineering design,
watering to prevent dust during the construction phase, appropriate
maintenance of vehicles and machinery, and strict control of noisy
construction works at environmentally sensitive sites. The EMAP also
specifies the environmental management and monitoring, institutional
- 4 -



arrangements, and training needed to implement the EMAP, and environmental
cost estimates.
The EA confirmed that no environmentally protected areas exist in the project
area. The entire province of Siem Reap has been designated a culturally
protected zone, and ten archeologically significant bridges lie along the
section of NR6 to be rehabilitated. These bridges will be reinforced and
restored, and the current road alignment maintained (see Section B.4). The
Government established a Steering Committee on Cultural Property in March 1998
to deal with cultural property issues related to the project. The committee's
responsibilities include establishing a protocol and an action plan for
protection of concerned cultural property and adequate guidance to
contractors.
10.     Program Objective Category
The primary objectives category are environmentally sustainable development,
public sector development and economic growth.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 19, 1999.
- 5-



