                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No:ICR0000313




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IDA-31810)




                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.3 MILLION
                      (US$45.31 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                           KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                      FOR A

                      ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                    June 5, 2007




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2007)

                  Currency Unit = Riel
                         R 1.00 = US$0.000251
                       US$1.00 = R 3,977

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian Development Bank
APSARA Authority for Protection and Management of Angkor and the
      Region of Siem Reap
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
EMAP   Environmental Management Action Plan
EOP   End of the Project
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return
FRMR  Fund for the Repair and Maintenance of Roads
IDA    International Development Association
GOJ    Government of Japan
LRCS  Location Referencing and Condition Survey
MEF   Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPWT  Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MRD    Ministry of Rural Development
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PAP   Project Affected Person
PDO    Project Development Objective
PIU    Project Implementation Unit
PRIP  Provincial and Rural Infrastructure Project
PWD   Public Works Department
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
RGC    Royal Government of Cambodia
RMDS   Road Management Decision Support
RRP    Road Rehabilitation Project
TA    Technical Assistance
TSSS  Transport Sector Strategy Study
UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and cultural Organization
UXO    Unexploded Ordinance
VOC    Vehicle Operating Cost
VPD   Vehicles Per Day

                 Vice President: James Adams, EAPVP
              Country Director: Ian C. Porter
                Sector Manager: Junhui Wu
          Project Team Leader: Maria Margarita Nunez
             ICR Team Leader: Maria Margarita Nunez

                                            CAMBODIA
                                Road Rehabilitation Project
                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 31
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 42
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Road Rehabilitation
Country:                Cambodia              Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P004030               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-31810
ICR Date:               06/25/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     CAMBODIA
Original Total
                        XDR 32.3M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 32.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Public Works and Transport
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/06/1997    Effectiveness:       06/14/1999          06/14/1999
Appraisal:             05/22/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/23/1999    Mid-term Review:     12/03/2003
                                     Closing:             06/30/2004          09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately
                                                                     Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               8                  8
Other social services                                           6                  6
Roads and highways                                             86                 86


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other social protection and risk management                  Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         Ian C. Porter                    Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:           Junhui Wu                        Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:      Maria Margarita Nunez            Alain L. Labeau
ICR Team Leader:          Maria Margarita Nunez
ICR Primary Author:       Maria Margarita Nunez



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve access to rural areas and build the framework for future sector reform.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objective of the project was to assist the Borrower to enhance
Cambodia's economic and social development, by restoring the condition of key national
access roads and establishing the foundation for an effective policy for future road and
transport sector reforms.



                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target    Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                             approval         Target       Completion or
                                            documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Vechicle operating cost reduced by 30% by EOP
Value                                                                    72% in NR6; 78%
quantitative orNone provided at          VOC reduced by                  in NR3; 45% in
Qualitative)   appraisal                 30% by EOP                      NR51
Date achieved 05/22/1998                 06/14/1999                      03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The outcome was largely exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Traffic increased by 60% by EOP

Value                                                                    Traffic increased by

quantitative orNone provided at          Traffic increased               328% in NR6;

Qualitative)   appraisal                 by 60% by EOP                   314% in NR3;
                                                                         220% in NR51.
Date achieved 05/22/1998                 06/14/1999                      03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The outcome was largely exceeded.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Endorsement of a Transport Sector Master Plan based on a National Transport
               Policy by EOP
                                                                         The Transport
                                                                         Sector Strategy was
                                                                         completed but not

                                         Endorsement of a                endored by RGC.
                                                                         A National
Value                                    Transport Sector                Transport Policy
quantitative orNone provided at          Master Plan based               was not prepared.
Qualitative)   appraisal                 on a National
                                         Transport Policy                A Road Law was

                                         by EOP                          prepared by the
                                                                         Parliament. The
                                                                         road fund is
                                                                         operating with
                                                                         limitations.
Date achieved 05/22/1998                 06/14/1999                      09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       The outcome was largely completed.
achievement)




                                              iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Key national and urban roads rehabilitated
                                         Rehabilitation of
Value          None provided at          National Roads -                   Rehabilitation of

(quantitative  appraisal                 111 km, and                        National Roads-132

or Qualitative)                          Urban Roads - 4                    km, and Urban

                                         km                                 Roads-40 km

Date achieved 05/22/1998                  06/14/1999                        03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Target exceeded by 19% for National Roads and 900% for Urban Roads.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Capacity building: number of qualified staff to implement and supervise road
               works
                                                                            In MPWT a core
                                                                            staff of 12 persons
                                                                            is familiar with:
                                                                            road network
                                                                            planning,
                                                                            management,
                                                                            construction,
                                         Number of                          resettlement,
Value                                    qualifyed staff to                 project and
(quantitative  None provided at          implement and                      financial
or Qualitative)appraisal                 supervise road                     management. In
                                         works                              the PWDs 10
                                                                            persons are familiar
                                                                            with
                                                                            implementation and
                                                                            supervision of
                                                                            maintenance
                                                                            contracts.

Date achieved 05/22/1998                  06/14/1999                        03/31/2006
Comments       The individualy technical capacity of the MPWT and the PWD staff as well as of
(incl. %       the small contractors involved in the project, was developed. The indicator was
achievement)   fully acheived.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     05/06/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/22/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.56


                                               iv

  3   02/17/2000        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     0.62
  4   03/24/2000        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     0.62
  5   06/12/2000        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     0.62
  6   12/05/2000        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     0.74
  7   02/26/2001        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     0.74
  8   11/27/2001        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     2.28
  9   03/08/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     4.51
  10  11/19/2002        Satisfactory         Satisfactory     9.74
  11  06/19/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    19.37
  12  10/31/2003        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    22.58
  13  05/13/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    27.79
  14  12/23/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    38.27
  15  06/20/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory    41.51
  16  04/19/2006   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory    43.34



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

            1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1When the Project was approved in 1999, Cambodia was experiencing its first full year
of peace in 30 years. Although a coalition government formed in 1993 - after two
decades of conflict - had made initial progress in restoring economic growth, by the mid-
1990s tensions between the two main coalition partners had become acute, weakening
reform efforts and economic growth. Sporadic Khmer Rouge insurgencies, combined
with the larger East Asian financial crisis in 1997, further caused a drop in tourism as
well as reduced trade with neighboring countries. In July 1997 the political tensions
culminated in political and social unrest, which in turn lead to a suspension of a
substantial part of donor assistance. At this time, almost 85 percent of the population
lived in rural areas, with most engaged in subsistence agriculture. With a per capita GNP
of only US$260, Cambodia was one of the poorest countries in the world.

By 1999 the political and security situations had improved significantly with the
formation of a new coalition government following national elections in July 1998.
Although the potential for improved economic growth was deemed good based on the
experience of other Southeast Asian economies, in Cambodia such prospects were
constrained by a number of factors, among them weak institutions, poor governance and
inadequate transport and communication facilities. The lack of transport made it difficult
to get modern inputs to small farmers and move surplus products from one area to
another, with the result that even in times of food sufficiency pockets of starvation
remained.

The transport and communication system was in a serious state of disrepair. Roads had
not been maintained for more than 20 years. Emergency road rehabilitation had been
financed by various donors in the early 1990s, but implementation had been hampered by
poor security, a shortage of qualified staff and inadequate financial resources. By 1996
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) Special Rehabilitation Assistance Project had made
some 550 km passable by introducing a low unit cost treatment, but in the absence of
routine maintenance, these roads deteriorated within a few years. All told, about US$146
million was invested in the road rehabilitation program from 1992 to 1996, including
about US$28 million in local funds. International lending for new infrastructure projects
was delayed from 1997 to 1999 by the afore-mentioned instability. Aide generally
resumed in 1999, the year the Road Rehabilitation Project (RRP) was approved.

The RRP was the first International Development Association (IDA) project in the
transport sector in Cambodia. It was designed to respond to the clear need to improve
mobility and commerce among the various regions of the country in order to achieve the
goals indicated in the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of sustainable economic
growth and social development. The Bank's extensive experience in supporting road
improvement projects was recognized and considered important by the Government. The



                                              1

Bank was also seen as playing a leading role in influencing the direction of efforts by
other donors and encouraging coordination of these efforts.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The development objective of the project was to assist the Borrower to enhance
Cambodia's economic and social development, by restoring the condition of key national
access roads and establishing the foundation for an effective policy for future road and
transport sector reforms.

The key performance indicators of Outcome/Impact are:

1. Vehicle operating costs reduced by 30 percent by the End of the Project (EOP);
2. Traffic increased by 60 percent by EOP; and
3. A Transport Sector Master Plan endorsed by key Royal Government of Cambodia
(RGC) decision makers by EOP.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The Project Development Objective and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary beneficiaries of the improvement in road transport infrastructure are the
users of the roads living and/or working within the areas of influence of the connecting
roads. These include farmers, consumers in the urban areas, bus operators and other road
users, traders in domestic and international commerce, local contractors and people
employed in the tourism industry. Secondary beneficiaries include the civil service
members trained under the project of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MPWT), the Ministry of Economy Finance (MEF), and the Public Works Departments
(PWDs) in the three project provinces.

More specifically, the Project's main components provided the following benefits:

Regional mobility improvements and access to a major tourist center: The rehabilitation
of NR6 reopened a large agricultural area in Siem Reap province and reopened the access
road to the Siem Reap airport. This, in conjunction with adjacent road projects financed
by other donors, connected the entire region, including the tourist area of Angkor Wat, to
the capital Phnom Penh.

Access to the Main Seaport: The selected section of NR3 benefited consumers, traders
and manufacturers at the national level, as it connects the NR4 to the main port of


                                              2

Cambodia in Sihanoukville with the capital of Phnom Penh; the rest of the road was
improved with ADB and United State Agency for International Development assistance.

Urban Roads Upgrading: Urban road paving in the two cities of Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville not only improved environmental conditions and mobility, but also
encouraged other donors to fund urban road paving in important amounts, thereby
benefiting residents and visitors.

Capacity Development. The rehabilitation of urban roads demonstrated the benefit of
contracting out works rather than continuing with force account, and thereby enhanced
opportunities for private contractors, both local and from neighboring countries. In
addition, training for small contractors enabled them to take advantage of opportunities as
they arose. Training on road asset management, planning, periodic maintenance, contract
management and on-the-job training benefited MPWT and PWD staff.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Part A: National Road Rehabilitation

1.    Rehabilitation of NR6
(a)   Rehabilitating about 82 km of NR6 from the junction of the Siem Reap airport
      access road to the Kompong Thom provincial border;
(b)   Rehabilitating about 2.5 km of the Siem Reap access road;
(c)   Rehabilitating about 5.5 km of the Angkor Wat access road;
(d)   Replacing about 30 bridges on NR6;
(e)   Reconditioning about 10 bridges on NR6; and
(f)   Restoring about 10 historical bridges on NRN6.

2.    Rehabilitating about 21.5 km of NR3 from the juncture of NR4 at Veal Rinh to the
Kampot provincial border at Ban Trapeang Ropou, including rehabilitation and
reinforcement of about 15 bridges;

3.    Carrying out a Mines Security Program and related activities in respect of the
foregoing road works.

Part B: Urban Road Rehabilitation

1.    Carrying out a program of periodic maintenance operations covering about 3.5 km
of main arterial routes within the capital city of Phnom Penh;

2.     Rehabilitating about 1.5 km of urban roads within the city of Sihanoukville.

Part C: Institutional Strengthening

1.    Strengthening the capability of the Borrower's PWDs and road construction centers
to plan, organize and supervise road maintenance works, and to contract out maintenance
and supervision contracts, through the provision of consultants' services;



                                              3

2.    Strengthening the administrative and managerial capacity of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in respect of Project implementation, through the provision of
consultants' services and staff training programs, including construction supervision
consultants' services;

3.    Formulation of a transport sector policy
(a)   Strengthening the institutional capacity of MPWT to formulate a transport sector
policy, through the provision of consultants' services and staff training;
(b)   Conducting specialized studies and workshops and provision of staff training to
assist in the formulation of an appropriate national transport policy.

4.    Strengthening the institutional capacity of MEF to develop national guidelines on
resettlement and compensation, through the provision of consultants' services and
organization of participatory stakeholder's workshops.

1.6 Revised Components

One component was modified in 2001, to include rehabilitation of a third section of
NR51 and additional kilometers of urban road rehabilitation (see section 1.7).

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Rehabilitation of about 38 km of NR51. During Project preparation, the Government of
Japan (GOJ) expressed interest in parallel financing of 17.5 km of NR6 with an estimated
cost of about US$5.3 million. However a final decision was not expected before the end
of 1999, when the Project would already be under implementation. To bridge the time
gap and cover a possible withdrawal of Japanese financing, the IDA Credit was increased
by US$5.04 million equivalent (95 percent of the estimated cost). The understanding at
negotiations was that as soon as the Japanese grant became effective, the above amount
would be cancelled from the IDA credit.

The Japanese grant to finance the 17.5 km of NR6 became available in 2001. Taking the
opportunity of the additional funds, the RGC requested that the US$5.04 million from the
IDA Credit be used to finance the rehabilitation of about 38 km of NR51. This road was
on the list of the feasibility study that identified the sections included in the project. The
NR51 connects NR4 and NR5, providing a by-pass of Phnom Penh for long distance
traffic between North-Eastern and Western provinces and the port of Sihanoukville.
The assessed Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was 20 percent. Upon assuring
that the proposed works met the Bank's requirements in terms of technical soundness,
economic justification, social and environmental aspects, procurement arrangements and
implementation schedule, the Bank gave its no objection to use the US$5.04 million
toward the rehabilitation of NR51.

Preservation of the authenticity and historical value of ancient bridges. The rehabilitation
activities along NR6 drew special attention to the need for Cambodia to protect the



                                                4

unique cultural asset structures along an ancient Angkor highway dating from the 12th -
13th Century. To preserve the authenticity and historical value of the ancient bridges, the
Authority for the Protection and Management of Angkor and the Region of Siem Reap
(APSARA) permitted the MPWT to build 10 bypasses and new bridges to divert traffic
off the ancient bridges and onto the new bypasses, in conformity with UNESCO's ad-hoc
expert group recommendations of December 2004.

The Kampong Kdei Bridge, one of the dry­jointed laterite block construction engineering
wonders along NR6, is located about 60 southeast of Siem Reap and is the highest and
longest of the 800 year old bridges, spanning approximately 85 m and 14 m high.
Although it was originally agreed by competent authority that the ancient bridge was to
be rehabilitated without any bypasses, cultural heritage considerations took precedence.
The ongoing civil works contract was thus amended to build the new bridges rather than
consolidate the existing ones. A similar decision was taken about the bridges on NR3,
initially planned to remain as one-lane bridges. With increasing traffic, it was decided to
build new two-lane bridges under a separate contract.

Urban roads rehabilitation. After successful implementation of five kms of periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation of urban roads in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, IDA
agreed to the Borrower's request to rehabilitate more urban roads with cost savings and
unallocated funds. The additional rehabilitation works were selected applying the criteria
of: expected impact on the living conditions in two major easily accessible population
centers of the country, the potential for visible and significant results of the benefits of
maintenance management training, and to complement ongoing activities in the sub-
component. A total of six contract packages covering 40 kms were completed,
significantly more than the five kms included in the project appraisal.

The Transport Sector Policy and the Transport Sector Strategy Study (TSSS). The
overall objective of the sub-component was to strengthen the capacity of MPWT to
formulate the Government's transport sector policy. The intention was to finance
consultants to facilitate the process of developing awareness of the major policy issues
and building a participatory framework with involvement of major stakeholders.
However, this activity was superseded by ADB Technical Assistance (TA) which began
shortly after this project was made effective. The ADB's TA terms of reference for the
TSSS covered much of the same ground but without the emphasis on facilitation and
participation envisaged by the IDA-financed sub-component. Additional TA provided by
the Canadian International Development Agency addressed the institutional strengthening
needs of MPWT. As the policy formulation sub-component was reduced considerably,
IDA agreed to use the savings to assist in drafting the Road Law and for additional
training and road safety activities. A lawyer was engaged to assist in drafting the Road
Law, using a broadly consultative process and approach.

Closing Date Extensions. Three extensions of the closing date were granted, for a total of
27 months as follows:




                                              5

The first extension, from June 30, 2004 to June 30, 2005, was to complete the unexpected
works on NR6 related to the Kampong Kdai bypass; as a result of the extended time
available IDA also agreed to the additional works for urban road rehabilitation. A
reallocation of Credit proceeds was also granted.

The second extension, from June 30, 2005 to March 31, 2006, and relocation of Credit
proceeds was granted to complete: (i) works on the Phum O and Kampong Kdai
bypasses, and (ii) certain sections of the Road Law and related regulations in areas such
as road financing, which required further drafting and consultation. The extension also
permitted additional periodic maintenance works in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville.

The third extension, from March 31, 2006 to September 30, 2006, was granted to ensure
satisfactory completion of resettlement of approximately 96 families affected by
rehabilitation of Street No. 1986 in Phnom Penh (see details in section 2.4).


             2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. This assessment is based on:

Consistency with Government priorities and CAS. The project objectives were aligned
with the Government's priorities as reflected in the CAS. As part of the Government's
attempt to grapple with the pressing political and social issues, the reestablishment of
communication among the regions by making roads more passable was clearly an urgent
need. The CAS goals of generating sustainable economic growth and social development
relied in part on improved mobility and commerce. Restoring access to major tourist
attractions such as Angkor Wat also supported the growth agenda by helping to increase
tourism-related employment and revenues.

Simplicity and focus of project design. The objectives of the project were kept relatively
modest, as was appropriate given the limited financial and institutional capacity of a
country emerging from an extended period of turmoil and conflict. The priority given to
physical works critical to the functioning of the economy in the short run was balanced
by the assistance aimed at: (i) facilitating the government's development of its transport
policy framework, and (ii) developing the capacity of key ministries to carry out the
policy. This balanced approach recognized that until the political situation stabilized, the
Government would most likely continue its ad hoc, piecemeal approach to the transport
sector. However it also responded to the urgency of establishing clear policies, for
setting priorities in a severely resource-constrained setting, and putting institutions in
place capable of delivering on such priorities.

Adequacy of Safeguard policies. The treatment of safeguard issues for this Category B
project was appropriate for Cambodian conditions and the types of interventions included


                                                6

in the project. Since most of the project components were rehabilitation works within the
existing rights-of-way, no significant impact on the physical environment was expected.
However, as the widening of NR6 was expected to affect households using space within
this right-of way, a detailed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared. Similar plans
were prepared for components of the Project that were subsequently added (see Section
1.7). Cultural property issues were similarly anticipated. For NR6 in Siem Reap
province, the Government established a steering committee on cultural properties in 1998
to deal with any cultural properties issues that would come up during implementation.
The committee established a protocol and action plan to protect cultural properties and
provide guidance to contractors.

Lessons Taken into Account in the Project Design

The Cambodia IDA portfolio was a relatively young portfolio at the time RRP was being
prepared. The lessons incorporated in the project design reflected fundamental problems
being encountered in Cambodia's fledgling portfolio. These included:

Government's inability to mobilize adequate counterpart funds. The project provided the
maximum financing percentage available, 95 percent. This was a reasonable approach as
the project sought to address the more fundamental funding and sustainability issues
through the policy framework.

Poor donor coordination results in duplication of effort. The project focused on the
building blocks for informed decision-making. As such it included creation of an
integrated road sector data base, which would include work funded by all donors and the
government, as part of the project TA aimed at bridging communication gaps.

Capacity development and sector reforms take time. Expectations were to be kept
realistic in a country dealing with political instability and a shortage of qualified
personnel. Since this was the first project in the sector, its scope was intentionally
limited to "building a framework for future sector reforms". No policy or institutional
changes were required to implement the physical components of the project. The
expectation was that the policy framework and related institutional reforms would be in
place in time for subsequent projects.

Security Issues need to be considered up front. Although security along the project roads
had improved, it was deemed necessary regularly to monitor the situation before
engaging and while visiting the projects in the field. A mine-clearing sub-component
was included to ensure that civil works were not carried out in an environment of
unnecessary risk.

Project Risks

The overall risk rating at entry was Moderate. The risks were identified to be
institutional and security-related. A risk rating of Substantial would have been more




                                               7

realistic, given Cambodia's recent war-torn past. Mitigating measures were planned for
the specific risks to the extent that they could be influenced by the project, as follows:

Lack of counterpart funds (rated M). Risk reduced by limiting counterpart fund
requirement to a minimum of five percent of the Project cost and by obtaining a
supplemental contractual confirmation (Supplemental Letter) of the Borrower standard
obligation to provide those funds. Experience with other projects in the portfolio at the
time would suggest that S would have been more realistic;

Insufficient institutional implementation capacity (rated N). Risk reduced by providing
for international consultants to supervise civil works and provide advisory services to the
Project Implementation unit (PIU). Given that this was identified as a major risk, the N
rating would appear to be too low; and

Civil unrest or armed conflict. The risk of political instability was recognized, but
deemed beyond the means of the project to address. Although civil unrest was a risk, it
was considered prudent to proceed given improvements in the political and security
situations with the formation of a new coalition government and reduction in Khmer
Rouge activity.

In addition to the "main" risks, three other risks were identified and rated as follows:
insufficient maintenance (M), lack of response from international contractors (N), and
flooding of the Tonle Sap (N). The maintenance risk addresses sustainability, and given
the shortage of funds and lack of capacity would more realistically have been rated
Substantial. A risk that was not identified, but logically could have been included, was
the lack of client ownership leading to the failure by Government to adopt the transport
sector policy framework and strategy.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

National and Urban roads rehabilitation. Overall, the civil works program of national and
city road rehabilitation proceeded satisfactorily, albeit at a slower pace than anticipated.
Generally issues were addressed as they occurred and remedial actions were taken in
reasonable time.

NR6--The NR6 contract was awarded 12 months late due to the inexperience of the
implementing agency with international bidding processes. Progress was also slowed to
accommodate the change required by the APSARA Authority (see section 1.7). This
required designing bypasses and new bridges at 10 locations and a 1.3 km bypass,
including a three span bridge, around the longest ancient bridge.

NR3--Progress on NR3 was delayed by the need to redesign the road works and change
the construction methods for the large deposits of soft soil conditions found in a road
section. The NR3 bridge contract was also delayed due to the contractor's inexperience
and hence underestimation of the requirements of the project, rejection of poor quality



                                               8

materials, and the need to remove the embankment from the bridge due to the potential of
flooding (which would affect rice crops downstream).

Institutional Strengthening Activities. Implementation of the supervision of works and
training was accomplished with good results. The capacity of the PWDs to plan, budget
and manage road maintenance and to contract out road maintenance and supervision
improved. Similarly the PIU developed its project management capabilities, including
resettlement and supervision, and implemented staff training effectively. However the
formulation of the transport sector policy and the broader policy-oriented and
organizational development portions of the project were not given sufficient support and
lacked ownership at the highest levels of the MPWT.

This problem became apparent early on when, only a few months after project approval,
the ADB contracted with a firm to prepare a Transport Sector Strategy Study (TSSS) to
cover all transport modes. There was a fundamental difference in approach for
implementation of the RRP component and the TSSS. The RRP's approach envisioned
that a high level committee would be convened to oversee and guide the development of
its own Transport Sector Policy followed by a Strategic Plan to implement the Policy.
The Project would support the input of a Planning Specialist over four years who would
visit as needed, three or four times per year, to review the committee's progress, assist
with ideas if the committee required such assistance, and help the committee to outline or
structure its activities in the next quarter. The intention was that by this method the
committee would develop the policy itself and therefore own it. Instead, a team of
international consultant specialists completed the TSSS in nine months, presented the
report at a seminar, made some changes as per the outcome of the seminar, and submitted
its final report. The TSSS was never approved or adopted by the RGC.

The Government subsequently requested and IDA agreed to reallocate the funds
originally for the Transport Sector Policy to the preparation of the Road Law. This law
was prepared using a highly consultative process and now is pending sub-decree approval
by the Prime Minister. As the law was prepared in the absence of an agreed sector policy
and strategy, there are some gaps that will have to be filled at a later date with the
adoption of parallel legislation. One key area in need of clarification involves a
mechanism to ensure the sustainable financing of road maintenance. Although the Fund
for the Repair and Maintenance of Roads (FRMR) was set up in June 2000, this fund is a
treasury fund which lacks adequate oversight and governance and which has not
generally been used to fund road maintenance.

Another key institutional strengthening activity carried out under RRP was the creation of
road asset management capacity within the MPWT. The Location Referencing and
Condition Survey (LRCS), which became the geographic database for the Road
Management Decision Support (RMDS) system, was designed and implemented. The
LRCS has collected road referencing and condition data and populated a centralized
geographic database which, in conjunction with its associated applications, is used to
support the RMDS. With the LRCS surveys, MPWT has established a common linear
referencing system and geographic map that allows activities along the road network to



                                               9

be assigned a unique address, and thereby collects in one place all of the road inventory
and condition data including pavement surfacing, roughness, surface condition, and
drainage inventory and condition. Although developed successfully, this tool for
strategic planning, contracting and contract monitoring is not being used by MPWT in its
full potential to generate the five year rolling plan and the updated annual road
maintenance plan for presentation to the MEF for budgeting purposes. Support to the
RMDS system is being continued under the ongoing IDA-financed Provincial and Rural
Infrastructure Project (PRIP, Cr. 3822-KH) approved in 2003. Its future beyond the PRIP
is in question as there are no funds available to keep the system updated and running.

The Project was not restructured or at risk at any time.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

Due to a lack of existing data sources for monitoring project progress, a project-based
M&E system was designed during project preparation. The key indicators ­ vehicle
operating cost reduction, traffic growth, and endorsement of the policy and master plan ­
were kept simple as was realistic in a post-conflict situation, and were adequate for
monitoring project progress.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environmental Protection Including Cultural Properties. The expected impacts on the
physical environment were of no significance. The only items identified by the Initial
Environmental Assessments were to be short-term impacts during construction. All the
identified impacts were listed in the Environmental Management Action Plans (EMAP)
together with corresponding mitigation measures. These measures were included in all
construction contracts, making them a requirement for the contractor to comply with.
Implementation was monitored by the supervision consultant and the PIU. Items such as
watering road to reduce dust pollution were not always implemented fully and contractors
had to be asked to provide enough equipment to do the job. Overall, with constant
reminders from the supervising engineer, compliance was satisfactory. Restoring quarry
site slopes also required recalling some of the contractors at the end of the work, but the
situation was eventually corrected satisfactorily in all cases. The impact on historical
bridges on NR6 was minimized due to the changes introduced including the construction
of bypasses with new bridges for all vehicular traffic (see section 1.7).

Social Safeguards. Overall compliance with the Social Safeguards is Moderately
Satisfactory. RAPs were prepared for all the project components well before
implementation began, except for urban road No 1986 in Phnom Penh (see below). The
plans were typically based on surveys, following various public consultations with the
Project Affected Persons (PAP). There were some problems with the surveys in which
results did not always match the original RAPs and actual valuation of impacted assets
and entitlements had to be repeated. As a result, the costs of overhead, administration
and management of RAP implementation were high. They reached almost 30 percent of



                                                10

the total compensation amounts, rather than the more typical 5 percent to 10 percent.
Nevertheless, people were compensated as agreed and resettlement occurred mostly in a
timely fashion, and did not affect the construction schedules. A total of 3,600 families
(25,228 persons) were compensated under the project. Surveys conducted by
independent consultants found that relocated households were generally satisfied with the
compensation they received. The late decision regarding the historical bridges required
the urgent preparation of RAPs. Fortunately, land acquisition was only needed at the
long bridge and at one of the 10 small bridges. The RAPs prepared by local consultants
in accordance with the agreed procedures were found adequate and resettlement
payments were made in accordance with the compensation scales.

Strengthening of the institutional capacity of MEF to develop national guidelines on
resettlement and compensation was superseded by an ADB TA which was carried on in
parallel to the RRP. However, the eight resettlement schemes of the Project overseen by
the MPWT and MEF staff provided a good practical experience to the staff, which is now
competent to implement such schemes for road projects.

Social safeguards regarding relocation, compensation, and rehabilitation activities of the
rehabilitation of Street 1986 in Phnom Penh were not initially conducted in accordance
with the agreed guidelines. MPWT proposed that the street would be built to 15 meters
wide in areas that were opened and to 7 meters wide in the section where encroachment
in the right-of-way had taken place, to avoid the displacement of people. The last
supervision mission of the project, in early 2006, found that a change in the width of the
paved road caused resettlement of 94 families. No RAP had been prepared and the
project closing date had to be postponed by six months to allow the preparation of a full
Post-RAP. Resettlement was monitored and the reports indicate that compensation and
rehabilitation were done promptly and satisfactorily by the MPWT and the PWD.

Fiduciary. The accounts of the PIU were independently audited in eight successive years
and each year the auditors declared that "the financial statements give a true and fair
view" of the financial position of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The MPWT has established a priority order for allocating maintenance expenditures for
the roads recently rehabilitated under donor sponsored projects, including this one. The
last two years the MEF has allocated approximately US$12 and 20 million, respectively,
for periodic, routine and emergency maintenance. Road maintenance will continue post-
RRP, as the road maintenance allocation overall is being monitored during supervision of
the PRIP. One of four key performance indicators for PRIP is: increase in the kilometers
of roads receiving regular routine maintenance under the MPWT and the Ministry of
Rural Development (MRD). Data required for planning and programming maintenance
expenditures (road condition and traffic) is currently available through the LCRS and
support is being continued under the PRIP. However, the future of this system is


                                               11

uncertain (see Section 2.2) due to lack of funds.

The institutional capacity building started under this Project in MPWT is being continued
under the PRIP as well. As the RRP was prepared and implemented in a transitional
post-conflict environment, there is need to develop further the monitoring and evaluation
framework for the road sector. This follow-up is being encouraged as part of the
dialogue over the policy framework by a multi-donor group and in the course of
supervision of PRIP. The contractor training TA also has been expanded under PRIP.

Recently IDA began preparation of the proposed National Highway Asset Preservation
Project, to be co-financed with ADB and the Australian Agency for Development. The
objective of this project would be to enhance effective use of the national road network
through improved road asset management capacity and facilitation of the network
maintenance program. The outcome of the project would be a sustainable core network
with expanded sustainable maintenance to secure future economic growth in the country.


                                3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Although much progress was achieved in improving the road network since the approval
of the project, its objectives remain relevant to the current country priorities. Despite
assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors, only 50 percent of the road network is
now in good to fair condition. The National Poverty Reduction Strategy of 2003 sets out
a number of objectives for the road sector which are basically the same as the Project's
objectives set five years earlier:

1.    Reduce isolation and vulnerability of the poor through all weather access to market
and essential services for low income households;
2.    Stimulate growth and regional integration through improved accessibility of road
networks and ensure cost effective and safe transport;
3.    Develop a coherent transport sector strategy collaboratively (Government, donors
and civil society).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

ICR rating: Overall achievement of the Project Development Objectives is Moderately
Satisfactory.

Restoring the Condition of Key National Access Roads. This outcome is rated
Satisfactory.

The rehabilitation of three national road sections (NR6, NR3 and NR51), coordinated


                                                12

with other organizations as part of a broader effort towards collective work, has had a
major positive impact by providing better roads, which in turn have facilitated improved
transport services for the population within the vicinity of these roads, travelers of the
surrounding provinces, and tourists visiting Angkor Wat. For instance, before the
Project, the NR6 was hardly passable and the trip from the capital Phnom Penh to Siem
Reap took 12 hours. Only 30 vehicles per day (VPD) managed the trip. There are now
over 1,000 VPD traveling on the rehabilitated road, consisting of private cars, taxis used
by the local population, scheduled bus services, tourist buses, and trucks carrying all
kinds of consumer goods and fuel. Similar traffic increases, substantial time and vehicle
operating costs (VOC) reductions are recorded on NR3 and NR51 (see table below). The
expected outputs were exceeded as 132 km of national roads were rehabilitated versus
111 km planned, and 40 km of urban roads versus 5.0 km.

                       Table 1: Key Performance Indicators of Outcome/Impact
                                Traffic in VPD                Travel Time         VOC
                             Excluding motorcycles                              reduction
                          At appraisal      At ICR      At appraisal   At ICR      %
       NR6 Phnom Pen           30           1,000          12 hrs      4.5 hrs     73
       to Siem Reap
       NR3 (Project           150            800           50 min.     20 min.     78
       section)
       NR51 (Project           80           1,000          80 min.     30 min.     45
       section)


The key targets for traffic increases and VOC reductions were greatly exceeded (see Data
Sheet) and this objective was fully met. In addition, road safety audits were conducted in
all international and local civil works contracts, and the recommendations of the audits
were taken into consideration. As a result, the project roads feature proper striping, lane
designation, warning signs for schools and markets and other safety features. This effort
for the improvement of road safety was the first in Cambodia and has served as an
illustration to other highway projects.

Establishing the Foundation for an Effective policy for Future Road and Transport
Sector Reform. This outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Transport Policy and the Road Law. Although the TSSS financed by ADB was
completed, it was not endorsed by the RGC. The Government had agreed as part of the
RRP's requirements to set up a Coordination Committee responsible for developing the
Transport Sector Policy and the Transport Sector Master Plan. It was envisaged that the
committee would include representatives from MPWT and other ministries, in particular
MEF, and from stakeholders from the transport industry and transport users. As the date
for establishing the committee (end 1999) passed without progress, the MPWT suggested
establishing an internal committee first and, later, present and discuss its
recommendations with other ministries and stakeholders. IDA agreed, but the internal
committee convened only once, in 2002.

In retrospect this component suffered not only from the donor-driven nature of the TSSS,
but also from the Government's post-conflict preoccupation with immediate



                                                13

reconstruction needs. The consultative process was stymied both by a lack of
government focus and by the absence of civil society groups able to participate
effectively in the dialogue.

This notwithstanding, the Government's eventual decision to reallocate the funds
originally reserved for the Transport Sector Policy for the preparation of a Road Law
with the assistance of consultants was a step forward. The development of a legal
framework for the efficient and transparent operation of the sector was supportive of the
project's institutional development objectives. In order to draft the law, the Government
had to review and decide on many of the same elements that would ultimately be
included in a transport policy. For example, through the process of drafting the law,
agreement was reached on roles and responsibilities at various levels of government.

The law went through as many as six drafts, and was discussed at a workshop attended by
all concerned ministries, provincial authorities and interested parties from the private
sector. In its early versions, the law included a provision for the establishment of an
Independent Roads Board to provide independent oversight of the FRMR. In so doing,
those drafting the law were responding to recommendations contained in the joint ADB-
WB Cambodia Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure Review,
September 8, 2003 (Report No. 25611-KH). However, the MEF did not agree to the
inclusion of any provisions pertaining to the FRMR in the law. The version of the Roads
Law submitted to the Prime Minister for approval includes a compromise provision that,
if necessary in the future, implementing regulations could be issued to establish the
FRMR as a statutory organization with independent Board.

Road Management Decision Support System. The technical procedures and the hardware
to run the system are in place, but the MPWT is not using it to manage its road assets
and/or for the preparation of annual maintenance plans. This suggests that the system
may have been too ambitious for Cambodia in a project designed to focus on
reconstruction in a post-conflict environment. Three key elements will be crucial for the
successful sustainability of RMDS: data collection, analytical contract tools and
capacity, and institutional support. While the basis for the first two was successfully
implemented under the project and is being continued under the PRIP, the system has not
been institutionalized as part of the MPWT functions. Although both MPWT and MRD
are well aware of the need for road maintenance, until recently routine and periodic
maintenance were not performed regularly as funds continue to be diverted to
rehabilitation or new construction. Regular maintenance is then often substituted by
emergency interventions taking place after complaints are received.

Other Achievements

In addition to the above, the project successfully accomplished its objectives to: (i)
demonstrate the benefits of competitive contracting; (ii) develop the capacity of local
governments to administer small contracts; (iii) provide on-the-job training to small
contractors; (iv) and raise awareness within MPWT of the road safety and heavy load
control issues. The project included TA and funds for one small urban road improvement
in Phnom Penh (3.5 km) and in Sihanoukville (1.5 km). After a promising start in Phnom


                                             14

Penh, the cost of paving decreased from US$6 per square meter for 50 mm overlay to
US$4.5 following the use of open competitive bidding. This component was extended to
rehabilitate over 40 km of urban roads, through six small contracts completed
satisfactorily in both cities. After the proven success of the pilot project, other donors
became interested in the benefits that urban improvements brought and provided funds
for similar works. While in 1999 there were hardly any paved streets in Phnom Penh,
there are now over 80 km of sealed roads. The public works departments of the two
cities strengthened their capacity to manage maintenance by contracts and the local
contractors developed their capacity to understand contractual terms and carry out works
accordingly.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Economic Rate of Return

The Borrower prepared the economic ex-post evaluation of the road rehabilitation of the
Project using HDM-4. Actual traffic on the sections improved under the Project is
generally higher than forecast by the feasibility studies except for one part of NR6, were
actual traffic is in line with the forecast. In the following table, the base year traffic
volume (with Project) is compared with the projected traffic volume in the PAD.

                                   Table 2: Projected and Actual Traffic
        Section (Year)       PAD Projected        Actual traffic Difference in  % difference
                                                                     traffic
        NR3 (2003)                  2320              2928            608          26.2
        NR6-4 (2005)                2296              3327            1031         44.9
        NR6-5 (2005)                2296              2264             -32         -1.4
        NR51 (2005)                   -                 -               -            -
        North                       1358              3000            1642         121
        South                       2114              3800            1686          80


                               Table 3: Estimated and Recalculated EIRR
                                                      PAD EIRR %         ICR EIRR %
             NR3                                      36                 33
             NR6-4                                    31                 33
             NR6-5                                    31                 24
             NR51 (2002 feasibility study)            20                 >50


The estimated EIRRs at appraisal for NR6 and NR3 are close to those recalculated, while
for the NR51 the EIRR is much higher than estimated due to the much higher traffic on
the road. Project costs were generally in line with the estimates, without contingencies.
The ex-post economic evaluation shows a satisfactory economic justification of the
project investments.

Cost Effectiveness

Actual costs were within plus or minus 10 percent of the estimates, and contingencies
were reallocated mainly to extend the quantity of civil works. This reallocation,



                                                    15

combined with the savings resulting from the GOJ's financing of part of NR6, allowed
rehabilitation of a longer length of road than originally planned. For national roads 132
km were rehabilitated versus 111 km planned, and for urban roads 40 km were paved
versus 5 km planned. Lower cost alternatives were sought for road sections as well as for
bridges. For instance, it was decided to improve the roads with an eight meter cross-
section rather than the 11 meter originally envisaged, with the possibility to widen the
roads later as traffic warrants. On NR51, an alternative was proposed by the contractor
for the base, and the Double Bituminous Surface Treatment pavement structure was
selected as the most cost effective solution. In Phnom Penh, the cost of paving decreased
from US$6 per square meter for 50 mm overlay to US$4.5 following the use of
competitive bidding. While most costs were equal to or lower than expected, the cost of
administering the resettlement plans was higher than it should have been, largely due to
the lack of experience of the government staff with the process.

Financial Rate of Return
Not applicable

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

The overall outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This overall rating is based on the
review of achievements of the main Project objectives (Section 3.2), the compliance with
the safeguards (Section 2.4) and the ex-post economic evaluation of the project (Section
3.3).

The physical components of the Project achieved the objective to enhance the economic
and social development of the road works as shown by the reduced vehicle operating
costs, the increased people and goods traffic and (although attributable to many factors)
the general economic growth of the country.

The achievements on policy aspects for future reform did not fully meet expectations.
However, despite the failure on the part of Government to agree on or adopt a transport
sector policy, there were some achievements that, when fully implemented, could
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the sector. These include: a well designed
draft Road Law submitted for sub-decree approval; a road management system in place
and operational, albeit not yet routinely used; and trained local officials and local
contractors who can now manage, bid on and carry out small maintenance contracts.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)




                                               16

Coordination Among Donors. Contrary to the situation at project appraisal, the RGC is
now taking the lead in coordinating the activities of its development partners. There now
are regular quarterly meetings of the Infrastructure and Regional Institutional and
Technical Work Group to facilitate dialog among government agencies and donors.

Traffic Safety Audits. Safety audits were performed for all civil works contracts which
were subjected to traffic management improvements. These audits have helped to
demonstrate the importance of the many road safety features that lately have been
included in the design and construction of road projects financed by other funds. The
MPWT is now aware that traffic safety audits should be a fundamental part of road
planning and design.

Capacity Development. The capacity building provided by the project proved highly
effective, especially the on-the-job training to increase the capacity of the staff of the
MPWT, PWD and local contractors to undertake similar contracts. Considerable
experience was gained in MPWT in contract management and administration, which can
be used on other contracting activities of the Ministry. For urban roads, the PWDs of
Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville are now able to manage maintenance contracts, and small
contractors are capable of administering periodic maintenance contracts. The
demonstration effect of these contracts was successful, as both cities have adopted this
approach as the way to do business.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None to report

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Not applicable.

                  4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

The risk to development outcome at the time of project closing is rated Substantial. This
is due to a range of factors, the most important of which include:

The absence of an agreed transport policy to guide the development of the sector, and of
a road law to clarify roles and responsibilities, indicate that important preconditions for
the efficient functioning of the sector are not yet in place.

Most institutions in Cambodia lack capacity operate with little or no transparency and
have limited accountability mechanisms; these factors contribute to corruption. Despite
efforts to develop a sound governance reform agenda, the implementation of needed
reforms has been slow. Gaps in the legal framework coupled with weak implementation
and enforcement of existing regulations have hindered anti-corruption efforts. Last year
alone, three IDA-funded projects including the ongoing PRIP project, had declarations of
misprocurement in several contracts, and were temporary suspended. Governance action
plans developed for lifting the suspensions are now in place as a tool to mitigate this risk.



                                                17

Institutions tasked with managing the sector remain weak and continue to operate with
MEF involvement. Investments in the sector are not yet routinely made in accordance
with economically justified, prioritized plans and programs. Asset management tools
developed under the project are not yet being used for the purposes of planning and
budgeting.

Funding for road maintenance is neither adequate nor assured ­ either from the FRMR or
from regular, predictable allocations from the MEF. In spite of agreements under this
and other projects, the RGC is not allocating sufficient funds for maintenance of the road
networks, not following a technical procedure for road maintenance planning and
budgeting, and not taking advantage of the effectiveness of outsourcing maintenance by
contract. Sustainability of the restored key national roads could be at risk if a strategic
program for road maintenance is not in place shortly.

Urgent action required to preserve the substantial investment in paved national roads will
be supported with the proposed National Highway Asset Preservation Project. The
Project would assist securing maintenance of a core national road network and
strengthening road maintenance capacity of the MPWT.


                5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
                     (relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

IDA's performance in the preparation stage is rated Satisfactory. During lending, the
task team ensured that the development objectives and the project scope were consistent
with the Government's priorities and the CAS. The team complied with relevant
safeguard policies and correctly assessed the economic viability of the project's major
road works. Attention was paid to the issue of cultural properties found during
construction and dealing with the situation of mines and UXO.

Project preparation was initiated in 1995 with a review of the Transport Rehabilitation
Study carried out with funds from ADB, Sida and the United Nation Development
Program. A PHRD Grant was obtained in 1996 to conduct an options study, covering 42
road sections that were among those identified by the Transport Rehabilitation Study; a
detailed feasibility study of the sections ultimately retained for the project; and simplified
engineering design. During preparation, the Bank staff coordinated with other donors,
for example, attended a highway sector donors meeting in May 1997 and applied lessons
in relation to the need of stronger road pavement design standards. This was achieved
while trying to maximize the length of roads to be rehabilitated by reducing the width of
the cross-section.

The setting up of a committee responsible for developing the Transport Sector Policy and


                                               18

the Transport Sector Master Plan which would include representatives from other
ministries, the transport industry and the transport users was, in hindsight, overly
optimistic given the development stage and the lack of capacity of most institutions of the
Country.

Prequalification of contractors only commenced after effectiveness of the Credit and
contracting took longer than expected. Work on the first two national road contracts
commenced, respectively, in March 2001 and January 2002, over two years after the
Board presentation. Given the lack of experience of the Borrower with Bank procedures
and the need to be assisted by consultants, implementation did not progress as it would
normally with a more experienced implementing agency. At the time of project design,
IDA could have better assessed the client's readiness for implementation and proposed a
longer project implementation period.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

IDA performance during supervision is rated Satisfactory. IDA conducted regular
supervision missions, averaging two missions per year, with an appropriate skill mix
supported from the Bank's Phnom Penh and Bangkok offices. Most missions made field
visits and were able to provide technical and other advice to resolve issues based on
actual conditions. There were four different task managers, averaging two years each.
The civil works were supervised by international consultants who were very capable and
supported the pace of project delivery.

The handling of resettlement and compensation payments was closely followed to ensure
that the Bank's guidelines were adhered to. This includes the last supervision mission,
for the periodic maintenance of road 1986, where an extension of the closing date was
applied to ensure proper follow-up of the resettlement plan of 96 families moved hastily
from the right-of-way.

IDA showed flexibility in administering the Project. For instance, the Bank approved an
addendum to the NR6 contract, to replace the strengthening of historical bridges by new
bridge construction, after ensuring that the additional contract cost would be less than 15
percent. The final cost of the contract was about 11 percent above the original contract
amount. IDA also agreed to the Government's requests for extension of the closing date,
and fund reallocation from the equipment and unallocated categories to civil works, for
extra national and urban road rehabilitation, and to consultants' services, for additional
technical assistance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

IDA overall performance is rated satisfactory. RRP was IDA's first project in the
transport sector in Cambodia. A follow up project --PRIP--was identified and started
implementation while RRP was underway.




                                                19

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Government performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. This is primarily because
of government's failure to (i) coordinate the activities of the various donors, resulting in
activities funded under the RRP overlapped with or were duplicated by programs of other
donors, and (ii) grapple with the overall policy development needs of the sector in a
coordinated, productive manner. Examples of the former include that IDA only learned
of MPWT's intention to accept ADB-financed TA to prepare the TSSS after the RRP had
gone to the Board, even though plans for the ADB-financed assistance covering much of
the same ground were already advanced. Similarly, well into the preparation of the IDA-
financed pavement management system, IDA learned that other pavement management
systems financed by other donors were also in progress. Also, the high level Steering
Committee was only established mid-way through the project and only met once. All
told there was little coordination or cooperation among the various ministries with a role
to play in the development of policy.

Project implementation was affected by weak institutional capacity, and decision making
often was cumbersome. Many issues had to be brought up to the MEF and the Prime
Minister's Office for decision. For example, MEF is tasked with playing a role in social
safeguards and resettlement, but the surveys of Project Affected Persons (PAP) by MEF
staff had to be redone due to unclear instructions and unfamiliarity with the work.

The APSARA Authority for the Protection and Management of Angkor and the Region
of Siem Reap took a long time to make a final decision about historical bridges on NR6.
It also reversed its original position, from strengthening the bridges for continued use by
traffic, to building new bridges, thus delaying the project considerably.

The District Government of Phnom-Penh took the decision to remove people from the
right-of-way of street 1986 without regard to the IDA's guidelines on resettlement,
requiring an extension of closing date of the project to prepare, implement and monitor a
post-RAP.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The project implementation unit (PIU) performance is rated Satisfactory. The PIU
carried out the major civil works with quality and within budget, though not in the time
frame for reasons out of its control. IDA consistently rated project implementation
satisfactory for the good project performance, care with the fiduciary and safeguard
issues, and reporting; except for the resettlement of PAPs from Street 1986 which was
not initially conducted according with the agreed guidelines.

With support and training from the TA component of the Project, the supervision of
contractors was good. Of the eight resettlement schemes eventually overseen by the
Project staff, only two had been included in the original preparation of the Project. These
additional schemes gave good practical experience to the staff (including those from
MEF), which is now competent in their skills and knowledge to execute such schemes for


                                               20

a road Project. Independent audits of the PIU accounts for eight years were always
positive and the Bank's Fiduciary Review was satisfactory.

Competence of senior PIU personnel increased as well as the skills and capacity of
technical staff, as demonstrated by their development and sense of ownership of the
RMDS/LCRS. Computer and language skills improved at all levels and the experienced
staff can now confidently be used on other donor-financed Projects.

The MPWT performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The less than satisfactory
rating is because MPWT did not actively support raising the awareness of major policy
issues and building a participatory framework with involvement of major stakeholders; it
also did not convene the internal committee on a timely basis through which the transport
sector policy was to be implemented. MPWT did, however, follow through on the
preparation of the Road Law. Likewise, although the MPWT has not shown full
ownership of the RMDS system, the Minister has agreed to create a center for planning,
which later would be elevated to the level of a Department.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

The overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Government
complied substantially with the Credit's conditions and project agreement, but failed to
coordinate the policy development activities and the donors partners of the sector. The
PIU within MPWT implemented the project satisfactorily. MPWT's lack of support to
the transport sector policy and the road RMDS have negatively affected the project
outcomes, but the development of the Road Law and decision regarding the center for
planning are positive developments that could potentially help to provide the foundation
for an effective policy for future sector reforms.


                                    6. LESSONS LEARNED
                   (both project-specific and of wide general application)

A well designed project that is adjusted to the capacity of the Borrower, both
financially and institutionally is essential for its success. The project was designed for
modest objectives and with a simple and manageable concept. The two main components
of civil works and capacity development were well aligned to the limited resources and
institutional and human resources capacity of the Country. IDA assisted by working
closely with the counterparts providing technical advice, sharing knowledge and building
knowledge in high priority needs in the sector, and by providing adequate TA to support
project preparation, supervision, and capacity development.

Integrating project activities into the Ministry is needed to promote ownership. The
PIU structure facilitates implementation of physical investments, but inhibits the
development of and mainstreaming of policy and institutional reforms as well as
institutional development. The PIU managed the project (assisted by foreign consultants
which performed the role of advisors); they supervised, monitored and completed all
activities under its responsibility. This arrangement facilitated the active incorporation of


                                              21

systems within the PIU, for example, the RMDS system and the resettlement
implementation approach. While a focus on strengthening the implementation capacity
of the unit and the individual's technical capacity is important, addressing institutional
incentives and defining organizational responsibilities is necessary to achieving
sustainable objectives.

To move from post-conflict interventions towards long term planning horizon
requires appropriate and gradual engagement. The project, prepared in a post-
conflict environment, aimed at establishing the foundations for an effective policy for
future reform. However, at that time, the Government was preoccupied with responding
to the immediate needs for providing transport access, with limited attention to policy
reform. During project implementation, engagement with the Government focused on
staff knowledge sharing and training. Once the core road network had been rehabilitated,
a policy framework became important for sustainability of the transport sector
investments. Lately, the Government has shown increased interest in the institutional
aspects as well as in planning, budgeting and implementing road maintenance. This
demonstrates that, in a post-conflict environment, a gradual approach for the
implementation of institutional reforms appears most appropriate.

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See the Summary of Borrower's ICR in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable.




                                             22

                       ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                 (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

REHABILITATION OF NR6,
NR3 AND URBAN ROADS                    33.93              38.17            112.50

EQUIPMENT                                2.18               0.66           30.28
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     6.17               8.02           130.00
OPERATING COSTS                          0.73               0.56           76.71


            Total Baseline Cost        43.00               47.41           110.26

Physical Contingencies                   2.35               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      2.25               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       47.60               47.41           99.60
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            0.00
      Total Financing Required         47.60               47.41           99.60


(b) Financing

                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        2.29         2.93         127.95
International Development
Association (IDA)                               45.31        44.47        98.15




                                           23

                             ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

1.    Civil Works (PAD estimate $33.93 million without contingencies, ICR actual
        $38.17 million)

National Roads Rehabilitation

The original Project included rehabilitation of sections of NR6 plus some local access
roads and of NR3. The design called for the road surface to be Double Bituminous
Surface Treatment and it proved difficult to pre-qualify contractors with extensive
experience in this treatment. Contract documents also took time and additional field
surveys had to be completed prior to asking for bids. Contracts were finally signed with
IDA's approval in 2001, two years after Board approval. Mobilization and early work
was slower than expected but quality was good to fair.

For NR6 the contract needed to be amended after the late decision of APSARA Authority
to construct new bridges rather than reinforce the historical ones. Plans for the 10 small
new bridges and for the by-pass leading to the larger new bridge had to be prepared
before construction could proceed and the original completion date for the contract was
extended from October 2004 to February 2006.

On NR3, it was decided, in view of increasing traffic, that the single lane bridges which
were to be rehabilitated should be replaced by two lane bridges. The variation order
would have represented a 50% increase in the contract price and IDA asked the Borrower
to delete the bridge rehabilitation from the ongoing contract and bid the new bridges
separately. The original contract was completed in August 2004 and the new bridge
contract in November 2004.

To utilize funds from unused contingencies and funds freed by the GoJ taking over part
of the NR6 section, the Bank agreed to the request to add the rehabilitation of some 38
km of NR51. Once the Bank approval was received, the Borrower prepared the
feasibility study, the Environmental Assessment and RAP, the design and tender
documents in record time. Works started in 2003 and were completed satisfactorily in
August 2005.


Urban Roads Rehabilitation

After successfully completing the original contracts in both Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville, the Borrower proposed to extend the experience to two more contracts in
each city for a total of six and 40 km versus the 4.5 km included in the Project at
appraisal. The contracts were locally bid using simplified documents and MPWT
specifications. The Provincial PWD was the Engineer and the contracts were overseen
by the maintenance specialist provided by the TA financed by the credit. Each contract
was in fact a small training event, for the Borrower as well as for the contractor. The
experience proved successful and the quality of the work is good. In addition, the cost of


                                             24

paving decreased from $6 per square meter for 50 mm overlay on a negotiated basis to
about $4.50 with open bidding.

2.      Equipment (PAD estimate $2.18 million excluding contingencies, ICR actual
        $0.66 million)

The Project included the procurement of road maintenance equipment such as dump
trucks and graders, to be supplied to the Provincial PWD of Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville for force account road maintenance. After the successful implementation
of works by contract, it was decided not to proceed with such procurement, as the PWD
decided to move gradually to maintenance by contract rather than force account. Some
of the funds were used to acquire equipment for road inventory and condition, traffic data
collection and heavy loading control. The rest of the funds in this category were
reallocated to civil works.

3.      TA to MPWT and Capacity Building including Construction Supervision (PAD
        estimate $6.17 million excluding contingencies, ICR actual $8.02 million)

Training under the project was mostly on-the-job and was very successful. The number
of staff trained in the PIU was 12 and that of the PWD 10. Training included all aspects
of Project management, including accounting, administration of contracts and
resettlement. In addition, staff of the various contractors, four international and three
local, benefited from on-the-job training, as did local staff of foreign consultants (works
supervision) and of local consultants (environmental and social studies). In total, over 70
people benefited from training under the project.




                                             25

                      ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS


1.     Ex-post Evaluation Assumptions

The HDM-4 setup finalized during the LRCS study and further refined in RMDS
sustainability stages was used for the ICR analysis. The major assumptions made in the
PCR analysis are given below.

(a)  Treatments. The actual treatments applied on the road sections were modeled in the
PCR analysis.

(b)  Unit Rates - Construction. The actual construction costs were compiled from the
Project documents available with PIU. The following construction costs were used in the
analysis.
                                 Table 1: Construction Cost Unit Rates
           Road Section         Project                                Financial Cost
                                                                       (US$/Km)
           NR3                  DBST on 450mm Granular Base                 194,575
           NR6-4                DBST on 420mm Granular Base                 194,970
           NR6-5&6              DBST on 450mm Granular Base                 194,977
           NR51                 DBST on 400mm Granular Base                 151,529


(c)  Unit Rates ­ Maintenance. The following unit rates were assumed to reflect the
base year unit costs after a thorough review of the unit rates adopted in the feasibility
studies.
                                 Table 2: Maintenance Cost Unit Rates
             Item                                       Units         Financial Cost
                                                                      (US$)
             Crack Sealing                                  sqm              1.5
             Patching                                       sqm              3.4
             Drainage                                       km              800
             Surface dressing double coat                   sqm              4.2
             AC overlay dense graded (50mm)                 sqm              6
             Grading                                        km               30
             Regravelling                                   cum              9


(d)  Base (Start) Year for Analysis. The PAD assumed some time intervals for
completing these contracts. However, all of these projects were delayed due to various
reasons. The actual completion year was considered as the base year for the ex-post
analysis, which is different from the PAD. The following base years were used in the
PCR analysis:

                                    Table 3: Base Year for Analysis
   Road Section              PAD Start (With Project)      PCR Start Year (With Project)
   NR3                                   2002                               2003
   NR6-4                                 2003                               2005
   NR6-5 & 6                             2003                               2005
   NR51                                  2005                               2005




                                                  26

(e)   Traffic Volume. The traffic volume was taken from the actual traffic counts
conducted after the project road sections were opened to traffic. The mode wise traffic
volume by vehicle type is given below. A comparison of the before project and after
project is also given in the table.

                                  Table 4: Traffic Volume in VPD
                Before   After     Before    After     Before      After     Before
                (2001)   (2003)    (2002)    (2005)    (2002)     (2005)     (2003)      After (2005)

                     NR3               NR6-4              NR6-5 & 6          NR51 (North and South)

 Motorcycle      560      2100      749       2417      748        1356     849 + 1371   2166 + 2744

 Car              79      294        8        298         9         284      28 + 45       120 + 152

 4 WD             0       140        0        279         0         321      19 + 30        54 + 68

 Van              18      192        3         0          4          0       10 + 17       117 + 148

 LCV              0       128        0         42         0         49       13 + 21       120 + 152

 2ax Truck        25       1         0         36         0         58        9 + 15       99 + 125

 3 ax Truck       8        49        3        143         5         83        4 + 6        270 + 342

 4ax Truck        11       10        7         31         7         32        1 + 2          3 + 4

 5ax Truck        4        7         5         46         6         19        1 + 2          3 + 4

 Multi-ax
 Truck            1        5         1         7          3         29        0 + 0          3 + 4

 Mini Bus         1        0         1         26         3          0        2 + 3         42 + 53

 Bus              0        2         0         0          0         34        1 + 2          3 + 4

 Total           707      2928      777      3327       785        2264     937 + 1515   3000 + 3800


2.      Comparison of Actual Traffic with PAD Projected Traffic

The base year traffic volume (with project) is compared with the projected traffic volume
in the PAD document. The comparison is given below.

                            Table 5: Projected and actual Traffic in VPD
  Section (Year)      PAD Projected      Actual traffic     Change in traffic         % change
  NR3 (2003)             2354                2976                   622                 26.4
  NR6-4 (2005)           2296                3327                  1031                 44.9
  NR6-5&6 (2005)         2296                2264                   -32                 -1.4
  NR51 (2005)
  North                  1358                3000                  1642                120.9
  South                  2114                3800                  1686                 79.7



  Value of Time. The following time values were assumed for the analysis, which were
  in line with the feasibility reports. Passenger working time: US$1.00 per hour;




                                                 27

Passenger non-working time: US$0.50 per hour.

3.      Economic Internal Rate of Return

Table 6 presents the ex-ante and ex-post economic evaluation results (at 12 percent
discount rate). The ex-post economic evaluation shows a satisfactory economic
justification of the project investments. On roads NR3 and NR6, the higher cost were
offset by the slight traffic increase and on road NR51 the cost was lower than anticipated
for the Double Bituminous Surface Treatment pavement structure selected and the traffic
was higher than projected, therefore a rate of return greater than 50 percent is observed.

                                Table 6: Projected and actual Traffic
Section             PAD Projected       PAD Projected         ICR            ICR
                    NPV                 EIRR (%)              NPV            EIRR (%)
                    (US$million)                              (US$million)
NR3                 11.9                36                    6.5            33
NR6-4               8.0                 31                    5.5            33
NR6-5               17.5                31                    6.74           24
NR51                N/A                 20                    54.5           >50




                                                28

ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

(a) Task Team members


             Names                        Title             Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Alain Labeau            Task Team Leader                    EASTR
Mostafa El-Erian        Legal Counsel                       LEGEA
Raj Soopramanien        Legal Counsel                       LEGEA
Daniel R. Gibson        Social Specialist                   EASES
Yoko Eguchi             Cultural Heritage Specialist        SPR
Takashi Matsumura       Environmental Specialist            EASES
Gaye Lindsey            Disbursements                       LOAAS
Omowunmi Ladipo         Financial Management Analyst        LOAAS
Jacques Bure            Demining Specialist                 ECSEG
Ramanathan Natarajan    WB liaison Officer                  EACKF
Wijaya Wickrema         Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Susana Womack           TF Coordinator                      EAPCO
Dieter Hvlivek          Transport Economist, Consultant
Lauren Cooper           Institutional Building, Consultant
Xavier DeVictor         Demining Specialist, Consultant
Chander Ohri            Procurement Specialist, Consultant
Eva Monteblanco         Team Assistant                      EASTR
Boonsri Kim             Team Assistant                      EASTR
Teresita Ortega         Program Analyst                     EASTR
Andrea Heggen           Editor, Consultant
Supervision/ICR
Maria Margarita Nunez   Sr. Highway Engineer/TTL            EASTE
Roch Levesque           Legal Counsel                       LEGEA
Zhi Liu                 Lead Infrastructure Specialist      EASTE
Imogene Jensen          Sr. Economist                       EASTE
Sally Burningham        Sr. Highway Engineer                EASTE
Christopher Bennett     Sr. Transport Specialist            EASTE
Chinnakorn Chantra      Procurement Specialist              EAPCO
Kannathee Danaisawat    Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Chaohua Zhang           Sr. Social Sector Specialist        EASSO
Manida Unkulvasapaul    Sr. Environmental Specialist        EASRE
Lars Lund               Sr. Social Scientist                EASES
Veasna Bun              Infrastructure Operations Office    EASTE
Sreypov Tep             Program Assistant                   EASTE
Peng Seng Tan           Program Assistant                   EACSF




                                           29

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                 No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                          consultant costs)


Lending

   FY95                                                          63.58
   FY96                                                         160.08
   FY97                                                          98.99
   FY98                                                         200.53
   FY99                                                          87.65
   FY00                                                           2.71
                        Total:                                  613.54
Supervision/ICR
   FY00                                  10                      76.38
   FY01                                   5                      48.81
   FY02                                   7                      52.57
   FY03                                  10                      62.72
   FY04                                  13                      66.57
   FY05                                  15                      66.08
   FY06                                  21                      69.05
   FY07                                   8                      25.86
                        Total:           89                     468.04



                     ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS


(if any)
Not applicable.



             ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS


(if any)
Not applicable.




                                      30

     ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

Principal Performance Rating

                                         Outcome:    HS
                                     Sustainability: L
                  Institutional Development Impact:  M
                           World Bank Performance:
                                         Approval:   S
                                        Assistance:  S
                                PIU 1 Performance:
                            Financial Management:    HS
                                      Procurement:   S
                                   Implementation:   S

Objectives

Output Objectives
The primary output objective of the Project was to reconstruct priority National Roads that, due to
war damage and guerilla action, had fallen into massive disrepair

Other output objectives are:
1.     A small amount of urban roads rehabilitation in two Provinces;
2.     Institutional strengthening of both the MPWT and the Provincial Department of Public
Works. The establishment of the foundations for an effective policy for future road and transport
sector reform;
3.     The establishment of the foundations for an effective policy for future road and transport
sector reform.

Outcome Objective
The primary overarching outcome objective of the reconstruction of the priority National Roads
is to assist the Royal Government of Cambodia in its efforts to enhance its economic growth,
poverty alleviation and social development.

Other outcome objectives are:
1.     Increased confidence of the MPWT PIU staff to undertake similar projects;
2.     At the time of Appraisal the Khmer Rouge were still sporadically active in Siem Reap and
Kampong Thom provinces. No maintenance could be done to the road. Less than 30 vehicles per
day (excluding motorcycles) made the journey from Phnom to Siem Reap and the travel time was
about 12 hours. As an outcome it expected that there will be a considerable increase in traffic and
that the travel time between Phnom Penh and Siem Reap will be considerably reduced;
3.     The staff of the Provincial Public Works Department is expected to become relatively
competent in the methodology of contracting out works;
4. An important outcome of the Project should be the capacity development of many local
contractors.

Revised Objectives
There were no revisions of the objectives of the Project.




                                                   31

Original Components
The Project comprised three parts which are subject to such modification as the borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve or better achieve the objectives.

Part A: National Road Rehabilitation
1.     Rehabilitating about 82km of National Route (NR) 6 from the junction of the Siem Reap
airport access road to the Kampong Thom provincial border. Included in this rehabilitation were
about 2.5 km of the Siem Reap Airport access road; about 5.5 km of the Angkor Wat access road;
replacing about 30 and reconditioning about 10 bridges plus restoring about 10 historical bridges.
2.     Rehabilitating about 21.5km of NR 3 from the juncture of NR 4 at Veal Rinh to the
Kampot provincial border at Trapeang Repou including 15 bridges.
3.     Additional items included in the costing of the Project included the following: (i) Carrying
out of a landmine and UXO Security Program; (ii) Resettlement costs, including land acquisition,
EA and RAP studies, all to the expense of the RGC; (iii) Cultural heritage protection, (iv) Road
safety/community improvements.

Part B: Urban Road Rehabilitation
1.     Carry out a program of AC overlay in Phnom: This work covered pavement strengthening
operations of about 3.5km of main urban arterial routes within the capital city of Phnom Penh.
2.     Full structural pavement rehabilitation in Sihanoukville: The extent of this work was about
1.5km of urban roads in the city of Sihanoukville.
3.     Contracting out of small maintenance contracts: All of the urban works were to be
undertaken by the Provincial Public Works Departments of Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville.

Part C: Institutional Strengthening
1.     Strengthening the capability of the Borrower: Implementation of the Project would give
excellent practical experience to the provincial works departments and road construction centers.
2.     Strengthening the administrative and managerial capacity of the PIU: This will be achieved
through implementation of the Project through the provision of consultants' services and staff
training programs, including consultants' for construction supervision services. Also:
3.     Strengthening the MPWT to formulate a transport sector policy; and
4.     Formulating an appropriate national transport policy.
5.     Strengthening the institutional capacity of MEF: To develop national guidelines on
resettlement and compensation.

Revised Components

Part A: National Road Rehabilitation
1.     Rehabilitation of NR6: The major revision the NR6 component was the reduction in length
from the proposed 82 km to about 65 km. APSARA made 2 late decisions which altered the
previously approved scheme. The first was concerned the 10 ancient small bridges and the
second concerned the major ancient bridge at Kampong Kdai. Another revision concerned the 5.5
km access road to Angkor Wat where the work was changed from rehabilitation to a DBST
resurfacing as the local Provincial Department of Public Roads rehabilitated the road in 2001.
2.     Rehabilitation of NR3: The original scheme called for the rehabilitation and strengthening
of 15 bridges was cancelled and replaced as follows; 6 old bridges were replaced with new
bridges, 5 old bridges were replaced with new large culverts, and 4 old bridges were eliminated.
The reasoning behind this change was that the Korean Government volunteered to fund the
rehabilitation of NR3 from the end of this Project at Trapeang Repou to the city of Kampot. They
are planning to build double lane bridges whereas our original scheme left single lane bridges in-
place. For safety reasons it was decided to revise the bridges on this Project to double lane to be


                                                 32

consistent with the Korean section. It was also decided to remove all the bridge and culvert work
from the road contractor's contract and to prepare documents for a new structures contract to be
called NR3/SC. This contract went out to ICB using the list of pre-qualified contractors
established at the start of the Project and using post qualification.
3.    Additional items: All the additional items in Part A: National Road Rehabilitation was
carried out as planned. In addition to the items set out in the original plan for the Project, Road
Safety Audits were performed on NR3, NR6 and NR51.
4.    Addition of the rehabilitation of National Road 51 (NR51): Due to the savings on NR6
caused by the Japanese taking up the funding for a 17.5 km section of NR6, it was decided to add
to the Project the rehabilitation of 38 km of NR51 from its junction with NR4 to its junction with
NR5. This was bid as ICB and international consultants were engaged for supervision.

Part B: Urban Road Rehabilitation
1.    Carry out a program of AC overlay in Phnom Penh: As a result of savings in the Credit a
total of 16.2 km were strengthened in 3 contracts as compared to the 3.5 km in 1 contract. All
contracts were LCB.
2.    Full structural pavement rehabilitation in Sihanoukville: The original envisaged contract
was not implemented as the Provincial Public Works Department had already executed this work.
As for Phnom Penh, strengthening of the pavement was achieved through AC overlay. The
planned work was greatly increased as 3 contracts were implemented for a total of 23.9 km as
compared to a planned 1 contract with a length of 3.5 km.
3.    Contracting out of small maintenance contracts: All the works carried out in Phnom Penh
and Sihanoukville were implemented by contracting out the works to small local contractors.

Part C: Institutional Strengthening
1.    Strengthening the capability of the Borrower: The Public Works departments of 2
Provinces gained experience and capability as `The Engineer' on 3 contracts in each province.
The TAS consultants oversaw the Public Works Departments and gave them guidance and
support.
2.    Strengthening the administrative and managerial capacity of the PIU: As planned the PIU
gained experience in administration and management of both international contractors and
international consultants. This was something completely new to the PIU staff but with a total of,
eventually, 4 international contracts implemented within the Project, sufficient repetitive
procedures were experienced to make the PIU quite proficient at the end of the Project.
3.    As mentioned above Road safety audits were performed on NR6, NR3 and NR51.
4.    The portion of the project designed to formulate a transport sector policy over a period of 4
years with intermittent input by an international consultant did not materialize. There was a delay
by the Ministry in setting up the required Coordination and Consultation Committee (CCC) with
the result that this Projects work on policy was overtaken by the US$1.0 million study funded by
the ADB Transport Sector Study which covered basically the same policy issues that were to be
studied by this Project. The result was that the CCC did not meet after its inauguration meeting
which precluded any progress on the development of a transport sector policy by this Project.
The ADB study developed and delivered their Transport Sector Study Final Report within one
year of commencement.

5.    Strengthening the institutional capacity of MEF to develop national guidelines: The
strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Economy and Finance was
not executed by this Project as other arrangements were made.




                                                  33

Part D: Location Referencing and Condition Survey (LRCS)

The LRCS is an additional component to the Project. Basic data on the condition and location of
the road network were imperfectly known; One of the objectives of this component is to provide
quantifiable road network information on which to prepare the annual routine and periodic road
maintenance budgets on which the MPWT and the MEF could agree. Since then it has been
realized that the combination of database LRCS database and the Road Management Decision
Support (RMDS) system can do many more tasks in managing the road network than originally
envisaged.

Achievement of Project Objectives: Outputs and Outcomes

Achievement of Sector-Related Objectives ­ Sector Indicator: The Sector Indicator is the GDP
increase. The table shows the GDP performance from 1999 to 2005 (estimate). The real GDP
per capita has grown throughout the years 2001 to 2005.

                                      1999      2000  2001     2002    2003    2004    2005e

    Real GDP Growth                   11.2%     7.0%  5.7%     5.5%    7.0%    7.7%    6.3%
    (Constant Price 1993)
    Real GDP per capita Growth        8.8%      5.5%  1.7%     3.4%    3.6%    4.5%    18.8%

         e=estimate

Achievement of project Development Objectives ­ Outcome Indicators: The percent decrease in
the VOC on the Project roads is given in the table below.

                              NR3      NR6-D      NR6-E&F       NR51 North      NR51 South
      Decrease in VOC (%)     78%      73%        72%           45%             45%

The percent increase in traffic on the Project roads was greater than the Key Performance
Indicator of 60% on all roads in the Project. The highest increase was 328% on NR6-D and the
lowest is 151% for NR51 South.

Achievement of Component Objectives ­ Outputs

Civil Works ­ Restore Key Access and Urban Roads

1.    Implementation of the National Road Rehabilitation: In general the objectives and outputs
of this component of the project have been more than met. Where conditions presented
themselves to expand the scope of works covered by project, the RGC and the World Bank
worked together to exploit these opportunities. Going through the entire project cycle has given
the Ministry and government confidence in undertaking such projects again.
2.    Implementation of the Urban Road Rehabilitation: One objective of the project was to
improve the capabilities of local governments to enter into and administer small maintenance
contracts. Likewise, small contractors needed to familiarize themselves with these types of
projects. Six small periodic road maintenance and rehabilitation contracts, 3 for Phnom Penh and
3 for Sihanoukville, were completed expeditiously. They gave the municipal governments and
local contractors' confidence in undertaking these types of works. The PAD estimate for this
component was US$1.25 million with a total length of road of roads to be rehabilitated of 4.4 km.




                                                 34

What was actually implemented cost US$4.44 million and the total length of roads rehabilitated
was 40.1 km.

Achievement of Capacity Building Objectives ­ Outputs:

1.    Increased Capacity of MPWT to Implement and Supervise the Project: The output
indicator for increased capacity is the number of qualified staff to implement and supervise road
works. The number of PIU technical, resettlement, accounting and admin staff is 12 while the
number of Provincial. DPWT staff was about 10. Also, there were about 12 staff from the
various contractors, there were 16 local staff of the international consultants, and the local staff of
the local consultants engaged on the environmental and social studies.
2.    Capacity Enhancement: Before this Project began the PIU staff had never handled a Bank
financed project. They did have experience of handling Japanese bilateral projects but not more
than two contracts at any one time. At the end of the Project the PIU had handled four
international contracts and six urban works contracts covering over 40 km. As they have handled
four contracts satisfactorily it is not unreasonable to assume they could do the same again, but,
more staff would be required if the contract numbers were to increase. The public works
departments of Sihanoukville and Phnom Penh are now able to manage contract maintenance
projects. MPWT technical specifications for road and bridge construction were utilized with
special provisions added to include performance criteria for the asphalt concrete surface material.
The respective public works departments performed contract supervision under the mentorship of
the PIU-1.
3.    Improve Quality of Road Maintenance Operations: The primary driver for this output was
the six urban maintenance rehabilitation contracts covering over 40 km of urban roads in Phnom
and Sihanoukville. The output indicator is the quality and durability of the works. The Engineer
responsible for ensuring that proper procedures and work methods were used was the Provincial
DPWT in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, overseen by the TAS Maintenance Specialist. The
documents used to control the contracts were the Bank's Sample Bidding Documents for Simple
Works together with the MPWT Standard Specification, with amendments to the payment clauses
in the AC overlay contracts to make them performance based. The use of this simple
performance based payment method was, after the first contract, effective in producing good
quality work in later contracts.
4.    These contracts gave small contractors a better understanding of public bidding processes
and the contractual and administrative requirements with which they were not familiar. As such,
these periodic maintenance contracts served as a training opportunity in meeting the technical and
contractual requirements contained in these contracts. The use of an `end results' specification
for the contracts successfully reduced the supervision skills needs and ensured better quality
outcomes.
5.    Transport Sector Policy and Master Plan Constituting an Appropriate Basis for Future
Operations: The output indicator for this component of the Project was evidence of stakeholders'
involvement in a participatory process leading to actionable outputs". This component failed on
two counts. These were: (1) The component was not supported by the highest level of the
MPWT, and (2) the advent of the ADB TA No. 3651-CAM, Transport Sector Strategy Study,
whose TOR covered much of the same ground as that covered by this component.

Institutional Strengthening:

Transport Policy Development. The portion of the project concerning Transport Policy
Development was not given sufficient support at the highest levels of the Ministry, therefore it
failed.




                                                  35

1.     Road Law: A further endeavor of the Project at institutional strengthening was the
engagement of a lawyer to assist in drafting the Road Law and implementing instruments. The
initial draft of the Road Law included provision for the establishment of a Road Board to manage
the Road Fund. However, after objections from the MEF and discussions with them, the Minister
of the MPWT decided that the Road Board should not be included. Provision has been made in
the Road Law that, if necessary, implementing regulations can be issued at a later date to
establish the Road Board.
2.     LRCS: A second and major endeavor at institutional strengthening was the Location
Referencing and Condition Survey (LRCS) which became the geographic database for the Road
Management decision Support (RMDS) system. At the heart of the RMDS is HDM-4 and the
HIMS software that processes and conditions the data taken from the database ready for input
into HDM-4. The objective of the LRCS is to collect road referencing and condition data for
populating a centralized geographic database which, in conjunction with its associated
applications can be used to support a sustainable road management system. The LRCS survey is
completed from a moving vehicle and as such captures inventory and visual condition data at a
lesser accuracy (quality level) than if staff were to take direct measurements. However, the
survey is able to provide a large quantity of data in a timely and cost effective manner.
3.     RMDS: The supporting applications surrounding the LRCS geographic databases that are
used to assist with the collection and management of data; analysis and enquiry; and mapping and
reporting are:
     · ArcGIS for mapping and spatial analysis
     · HIMS for data management, manipulation and enquiry
     · HDM-4 for maintenance planning.
4.     The total km of roads surveyed by the LRCS is 10,688.76 km. The total not surveyed was
518.69 km. The data collected is from all provinces in the country. This LRCS/RMDS system
has brought something totally new to Cambodia and the PIU engineers have really taken
ownership of the system always demanding more training as they get deeper into the system and
begin to realize the power that they now have to look at their road network in so many different
ways and the potential to network maintenance planning and projections for 3 or 5 years ahead.

Other Procurements to Support the Services

1.     Provision of Goods and Consultants' Services: Goods, supplies and consulting services
required for the implementation of this project were procured satisfactorily and in accordance to
World Bank Procurement Guidelines. Road maintenance equipment, such as dump trucks and
graders, etc. was to be supplied to the public works departments of Siem Reap, Phnom Penh, and
Sihanoukville for force account based road maintenance. This equipment was not purchased
because the MPWT made a policy decision to move away from public sector force account road
maintenance to competitively bid contracted maintenance. The goods procurement was then
shifted to road inventory, condition, and traffic data collection equipment to be used initially for
the LRCS and to sustain this effort once the LRCS was completed.
2.     Safeguards--Environmental: No major environmental impacts were anticipated or
occurred; mitigation measures for air and water pollution, noise and soil erosion were taken for
all construction and maintenance projects
3.     Traffic Safety: Traffic safety measures were taken after traffic audits on all National
Highways contracts and also on the urban works contracts. With regard to accidents, the
information available at this time is on a global basis and not related to individual accident `black




                                                  36

spots' or other sites. Besides this constraint, "road traffic accident data in Cambodia are not
consistently recorded"1. The fatalities numbers for Thailand for 2002 per 100,000 populations is
20.9 and per 10,000 vehicles is 5.3. The same numbers for Lao for 2002 per 100,000 populations
is 7.8 and per 10,000 vehicles is 16.8. This shows Cambodia to have the lowest rate of the three
countries for per 100,000 population, 3.98 (Thailand 20.9 and Lao 7.8) and for the fatalities per
10,000 vehicles at a rate of 13.05 it is between Thailand and Lao (Thailand 5.3 and Lao 16.8)2.
4.     Resettlement and Land Acquisition: Overall, resettlement and land acquisition were minor;
where they did occur, proper safeguards were taken, and affected persons compensated. A total
of 25,228 PAP received compensation. During disbursement of compensation the PIU
Resettlement Officer was always there to witness the MEF disbursement to the PAP. Local
Consultants' were recruited by the PIU to monitor the compensation payments and all reported
that proper procedures were followed and PAP received the correct compensation due and agreed
with them beforehand.
5.     Accounting and Independent External Auditing Capabilities: The accounts of the PIU-1
were audited each year. Each of the 8 audits (1999 through 2006) was done by KPMG Cambodia;
each indicated that the "financial statements give a true and fair view" of the financial position of
the project.

Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return:

The Borrower using the HDM 4 evaluation techniques undertook an economic reevaluation of the
road rehabilitation component of the project. A more intensive analysis of NR 51 was undertaken
because its feasibility study had been conducted using HDM 4 while only a summary table is
available for the analysis of the original roads. The "with" and "without" project scenarios were
compared to determine the impact of implementing the project with a 20 year project life and a
discount rate of 12 percent.

NR51 Reevaluation: The NR51 provides a bypass route around Phnom Penh. Table 8 in Section
4 of this report shows traffic counts for 2002 and 2005 and a forecast for 2006. The 2005 traffic
counts are considerably higher than what was forecasted by the feasibility consultant. However,
the much larger than predicted increase in traffic is a clear indication of the correctness of the
decision to rehabilitate NR 51. In terms of the Economic Internal Rate of Return and Net Present
Value, both values have increased significantly for the following reasons; (i) the construction
costs were lower; (ii) the maintenance intervention assumed in the feasibility study were too
conservative; (iii) the traffic increased significantly as indicated above.

NR3 and NR6 Reevaluation: In Table 9, shown in Section 4 of this report, a comparison is made
between the traffic data given in the 1997 Option Report3 and the data gathered in early 2005.
This comparison shows; (i) on NR 6-4 has had the greatest growth showing an increase of 328%;
and (ii) on NR 3, there is an increase of 314% (see Table 2 in Section 4). The benefit analysis
was undertaken, and the resulting EIRRs are given in Table 4

Impact on Road User Costs (RUC): The main economic benefits from the rehabilitation of the
project roads are a reduction in vehicle operating costs and shorter travel times resulting in time
savings. Data on this is given in Annex 3, Economic Costs and Benefits.



1 ADB-ASEAN Regional Road Safety Program: Country Report CR 2 Cambodia
2 Reference for Thailand and Lao are the respective Country Reports of the ABD-ASEAN series as ref. 1 above.
3Feasibility Study for Selected Priority National/Provincial Roads in the Kingdom of Cambodia by JOC



                                                          37

Financial Rate of Return
Not applicable to this Project

Institutional Impact: The Ministry and two Provincial Public Works Departments have made
considerable progress in building their respective institutional capabilities.

Urban Rehabilitation Contracting: In Phnom Penh, the strengthening contracts improved the
ability of the municipal public works department to conduct public tendering following WB LCB
procurement guidelines, WB Bidding Documents (SBD) and the Ministry's modified
specification. Through competitive bidding, pavement prices decreased from $6 per square meter
of 50mm asphalt overlay to about $4.5 under this Project. In the case of Sihanoukville, the
Provincial Public Works Department had done most of its works through force account. This
Project provided the opportunity to contract out on a competitive basis the rehabilitation of
approximately 24 km of urban roads and consequently gain experience in the use of asphalt
concrete in lieu of surface treatment.

Road Safety Audits: This project increased the awareness for the many road safety attributes that
could be included in a road rehabilitation project. As a consequence of the safety audits, project
roads have striping, lane designation, signage, and warning signs for Schools, rumble strips and
other safety features added.

Environmental Concerns: During the course of the Project only two IEA and RAP studies were
conducted. These were for the combined Kampong Kdai / Pum O sites on NR6, and the study for
the new addition to the Project, the NR51. The methodology used for the environmental analysis
basically followed the same steps in both IEAs. These were to establish baseline data through
field inspections and included villages, buildings, bridges and large culverts, important trees,
streams and wetland areas, all of which can be impacted by road construction works. There are no
data in Cambodia on air quality or noise, but visual inspections revealed no air pollution or noise
except dust and noise from passing trucks and cars.

The assessment of both IEAs was that long-term negative impacts on the biophysical and cultural
environments can be expected to be insignificant. Long-term negative impacts will be confined
to those arising from increased traffic and travel speeds along the rehabilitated road. The
assessment of both IEAs was that there could be short-term impacts due to construction activities
during the time the Project was active.
All of the identified impacts were listed in the Environmental Management Action Plans (EMAP)
together with the corresponding mitigation measures. The EMAPS were included in all the major
construction contracts issued on the Project making it a contractual requirement for the contractor
to comply with the EMAP. A recommendation on how to improve control of implementation of
the EMAP is given in Sub-section 8.3.2 of this report.

Resettlement and Compensation of RAP: The addition of the NR 51 to the Project and the
revised component of the NR 6, bypassing the ancient bridges, required that these issues be
considered before construction could begin. The MPWT with the support of the MEF was able to
complete the resettlement and PAP issues and fund these local costs without adversely affecting
the schedule of both projects4.




4 This assumes that all outstanding issues are resolved on the Kampong Kdai Bypass.



                                                           38

In both Kampong Kdai/Pum O and NR51 a significant number of PAPs were identified so RAPs
was conducted on both sites. The RAP commenced with a census and a baseline inventory
survey which picked up all the assets of PAPS within the 25 m wide clearance corridor (the ROW
is 50 m wide). All households which were affected, even to a minor degree, were included in the
inventory. Socio-economic data was collected and compiled. Minority or vulnerable groups
were identified and enumerated. The impact of the Project on land (within the clearance corridor),
structures(both temporary and permanent), loss of trees and standing crops, loss of income and
business, loss of drainage and water connections, temporary impacts on businesses who had to
move back from the clearance corridor and impacts on community properties were all recorded
and measurements made. Compensation prices were established from market prices. A three
stage grievance procedure was developed.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Output

Factors outside the Control of the Government or Implementing Agency:

1.     There were only a few factors affecting the implementation of the project which were
outside the control of the Government or PIU 1.
2.     The delay in commencement of NR 6 was due to the verification of bid documentation
provided by the lowest and second lowest bidders both of whom were disqualified. The third
lowest bidder, after verification of his bid documents, was awarded the contract.
3.     The delay caused on NR6 by the changes required by APSARA on the 10 small ancient
bridges and the major Kampong Kdai Bridge, was outside the control of the Implementing
Agency.
4.     The soft soil conditions encountered on the first 5 km of NR3 caused delay to the
contractor. This was soft unconsolidated marine clay deposit at a depth of 8 to 11 meters. This
was recognized by the PIU-1 as adverse physical conditions and as such not the responsibility of
the contractor.

Factors Generally subject to government Control: None to report.
Factors Generally Subject to PIU-1 Control: None to report.

Costs and Financing:
A comparison between the total Project cost given in the PAD and the estimated actual total cost
is as follows:

                               Table 5.1: TOTAL PROJECT COST
                        Comparison between the PAD and Actual Costs

                             Project Cost      Not Bank Financed      Total Project Cost

           PAD                  41.89                5.71                   47.60

           Estimated
                                46.42                1.06                   47.62
           Actual Cost

Details of actual expenditure up to 15 March, 2006 and estimates of remaining costs up to
completion are shown in Table 5.2 in Section 5 of this report. This estimate of total Project cost
indicates that on completion IDA share of expenditure will be 93.83% and the RGC share will be
6.17%



                                                 39

The RGC was able to achieve savings in some key areas as follows: (i) NR6 due to low bids; (ii)
cultural heritage costs by building a bypasses for the ancient bridges on NR6; (iii) training costs
for transport policy development; and (iv) Savings from the decision to move to contracting out
maintenance which resulted in the decision not to proceed with the purchase of the maintenance
equipment shown in the PAD.

These funds were used for: (i) Rehabilitation civil works contract on NR51; (ii) replacement of
old bridges with new bridges on NR3; (iii) new bridges to bypass the ancient bridges on NR6;
(iv) to implement the LRCS and RMDS systems development; (v) additional Urban
Rehabilitation Works. Annex 2 summarizes the data on project costs and financing through the
end of 15 March 2006.

Sustainability

Road Maintenance

With the development within this Project of the LRCS database and the RMDS system for road
maintenance, the Ministry now has the capability within the PIU-1 to plan various maintenance
activities and prepare national and three year rolling budgets.

The Ministry and the Provincial Public Works Departments still lack capability to plan and
execute routine and periodic maintenance on a contract basis. However, there are some indicators
that senior management within MPWT is addressing this issue. This credit did much to introduce
contracting out techniques especially for the municipal governments of Phnom Penh and
Sihanoukville.

In terms of funding road maintenance on a continuous sustainable basis, progress is being made.
The Road Law is currently being drafted. However, the actual sources of funding for the Road
Fund have not yet been resolved, but there are funds within the Road Fund. In Section 8, a
recommendation is made with respect to attaining sustainability of maintenance.
Contract and Credit Administration

Through the PIU 1, considerable experience has been gained in contract and Credit administration.
Much of this experience is transferable to contract maintenance and other contracting activities of
the Ministry. In addition, the staff of the PIU 1 is capable of administering other donor-funded
projects.

Performance

Bank's Performance: The Bank responded promptly and adequately to requests by the Borrower
throughout the duration of the project. There were minimal delays in receiving clearances for
works programs.

The Bank has shown flexibility in administering the project by reallocation of savings for
additional civil works contracts. In addition, the Bank identified the requirement to improve the
collection and analysis of road condition data to plan maintenance activities. The outcome of this
need was the LRCS and the implementation of a RMDS system. Likewise, the contract
maintenance took priority over the use of force account work in maintaining the roads.

Borrower's Performance: The Borrower does not identify any significant problems or obstacles
to the implementation of the project. There have been some minor modifications to the original



                                                  40

project components. Civil works cost savings have allowed more work to be accomplished under
the project.

Within the scope of the project, the awareness of resettlement procedures, skills and capacity of
the whole of the staff of the PIU 1 have increased. Computer and language abilities improved.
This experienced bilingual staff will be utilized on other donor-funded projects.

Performance of the Contractors and Consultants: The Contractors all ranged from good to fair
with one sometimes rising above good and two sometimes dropping below fair. On the whole, on
completion, with many corrections made, but with one or two still outstanding, the civil work on
all contracts looks and rides quite reasonably. In the case of the small road maintenance contracts
in Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville, their performance was from good to very good.

Consultants: The performance of the supervision consultant on NR6, NR3, and NR3-Bridges
contracts was generally satisfactory but there were spots where his supervision should have been
better. The performance of the supervision consultant on NR51 was also generally satisfactory,
but again some things could have been done better. The performance of the TA consultant was
good. The performance of both the local consultants engaged for IEA and RAP and RAP
monitoring was good to satisfactory.

Lessons Learned, Conclusions, and Recommendations

Important lessons learned in administering IDA credits are:

·     Attention needs to be given during the planning and technical design of the project to avoid
delays during construction.5
·     Coordination between government agencies particularly the MEF and MPWT has to be
maintained throughout the period of the credit to expedite the approval process and its
implementation.
·     Commitment of local funds for expropriation of land and for payment of PAP should be
programmed as early as possible.

Important lessons learned in implementing institutional changes are:

·     In terms of institutional strengthening, clear statements of objectives and outcomes have to
be made to ensure that the desired change will occur.
·     A method of funding maintenance on a continuous basis is required before much progress
can be made developing sustainable methods of implementing routine and periodic maintenance
procedures.
·     Introduction of a new program or system such as the RMDS system needs a sustainable
method of funding. The continuation of the data collection and decision support methodologies
introduced under LRCS is uncertain. Much of the progress gained in strengthening national and
provincial institutions was made toward the end of the project period. In part, this was due to the
time needed to establish the credibility of the desired changes and in building a consensus within
the Ministry and with other agencies on what actions needed to be taken.

Conclusions




5 See Section 3.4 first box and Section 4.4 box to illustrate the attention given to planning.



                                                            41

The Road Rehabilitation Project has been completed in accordance with the revised schedule,
within budget and to an acceptable quality of works. This cooperative effort between the Bank
and Borrower has resulted in substantial improvements to the national road network and to
strengthening the capabilities of Ministry and two Provincial Public Works Departments.

The development of the LRCS and RMDS has created a database of the whole of the National
and Provincial Roads which opens the door to a huge step forward in planning the maintenance
and rehabilitation of the these networks and for planning annual and rolling three year
maintenance budgets based upon up-to-date accurate data, some of the data (i.e., IRI) has never
before been available in Cambodia.

Recommendations

Strengthening HDM4 Training: The current staff of PIU-1 is capable of operating all of the
RMDS systems but need strengthening in the operation of HDM4. It is proposed that grant
training funds be sought from the Bank to achieve this strengthening. There is a proposal being
mooted to change the name of the PIU-1, at the end of this Project, to the Road Information and
Management Center (RIMC).

Road Maintenance: The road maintenance system currently in place in Cambodia is a basic
reactive force account maintenance system. What we must do is test a means of better
accomplishing routine and periodic maintenance and thus better preserves our capital investment
in roads. What we would now like to do is truly pilot the system of contracted-out periodic
maintenance using the documents already prepared which are based upon the Bank's
Performance-Based Management and Maintenance of Roads (2003) on the 2000 km single digit
National Roads network. This covers all the roads that have undergone rehabilitation over the
past six or seven years, plus a small amount that has not yet been rehabilitation. We request the
Bank to help us test, develop and refine such a system of road maintenance over a five year
period so that we can learn how to best use the system and get the best results.

Implementation of the EMAP: The civil works have increased the awareness of environmental
issues in the design of road improvements, but, depending upon the particular contractor, it is
often difficult and time consuming to get action from the contractor that can be considered
acceptable compliance with the EMAP. To ensure better compliance with the EMAP by
contractors the method of pricing for compliance with the EMAP should be changed to a monthly
sum for the duration of the contract plus a second lump sum item for final site clearance. The
payment clause for the two EMAP items in the BOQ must have strong compulsory language to
support compliance with the EMAP.




    ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


Not applicable.




                                                42

                    ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

1. Cambodia Transport Rehabilitation Study, Final Report, SweRoad, March 1995.
2. Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Kingdom of
   Cambodia, January 28, 1997. Report No. 16255-KH.
3. Road Sector Support to Cambodia, Proceedings of May 1997 Donor Conference in
   Phnom Penh.
4. Cambodia Progress in Recovery and Reform So-Yong Song, World Bank, June
   1997.
5. Feasibility Study for Selected Priority National/Provincial Roads-Options Report,
   December 1997.
6. Cambodia Public Expenditure Review, World Bank, January 1998.
7. Supplementary Traffic and Economic Studies, February 1998. (JOC).
8. Analysis of Cambodia's Road Legislation and Related Regulatory Framework,
   Denora Sarin, May 1998.
9. Simplified Engineering Design-Drawing and Final Report, June 1998. (JOC)
10. Developing a Planning Capability at MPWT, Final Report, SweRoad, and February
    1999.
11. Road Rehabilitation Project, World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, February
    16, 1999, Report No. 18977-KH.
12. Rehabilitation of National Road 51 Cambodia, Resettlement Action Plan, WB
    December 10, 2002.
13. Ministry of Public Works and Transport Implementation Completion Report, March
    2006.
14. Study on The Road Network Development in The Kingdom of Cambodia Final
    Report. Volume I Summary, JICA, October 2006




                                          43

