                                                                                        35322

                                  The UnitedRepublicof Tanzania
                        Dar es SalaamWater Supply and SanitationProject
                                        ProjectRestructuring
                                          (Credit3771-TA)


INTRODUCTION

 1.      This memorandum seeks your approval for the amendment o f the Development Credit
Agreement and Project Agreement for the Dar es Salaam Water and Sanitation Project. This
Project has as its objective the provision of reliable, affordable, and sustainable water supply and
sanitation services in Dar es Salaam and parts o f the Coastal Region o f the UnitedRepublic o f
Tanzania through: (a) rehabilitation o f facilities for production, transmission, storage and
distribution o f drinking water, and waste water collection and treatment; (b) extension o f piped
water supplies and sewerage services; and (c) reorganization o f the United Republic o f
Tanzania's water utility company, the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority's
(DAWASA) operations to achieve effectiveservice delivery and financial sustainability. As part
o f the reorganization efforts anticipated in (c) o f the Project objective, it was proposed to turn
DAWASA into an asset holding company, transferring the actual operation o f water and
sewerage services to a private operator. To this end, after a competitive procurement process,
City Water Services, Ltd. (a Tanzanian-registered private water operator with UK, German and
Tanzania Shareholders) was appointed as operator, and DAWASA entered into a ten-year Lease
Contract with City Water Services Ltd. on February 19, 2003. The proposed amendments are
made to the Project as requested by the Government o f the UnitedRepublic o f Tanzania to this
effect following the termination o f the Lease Contract with City Water Services by the
Government.

BACKGROUND

2.      The above project was approved by the Executive Directors on May 27, 2003 (Report
No. 25249-TA) and became effective on July 31, 2003. As currently designed, the Dar es
Salaam Water Supply and Sanitation Project i s a five year project which comprises a $164.6
million investment and operational support program co-financed by the International
Development Agency (IDA - $61.5 million); African Development Bank (AfDB - $48.0
million); European InvestmentBank (EIB - $34.0 million); Private Operator ($8.5 million inthe
form o f equity in the operating company) and DAWASNGovernment o f Tanzania ($12.6
million).

3.      The Project has five components namely, (i) supply rehabilitation and extension,
                                                         water
(ii)wastewater system rehabilitation and extension, (iii)community water and sanitation,
(iv) institutional strengthening, and (v) medium-termdevelopment. All components, except for
parts o f the institutional strengthening, were placed directly under the control o f DAWASA.
Under the Project arrangements, DAWASA, as the asset holding company, retained the
responsibility for procuring, supervisingand, inpart, financing the major rehabilitation contracts
and retained the financial responsibility for replacing systems, except for small equipment and

                                                 - 2 -


 small pipe segments.      D A W A S A was also responsible for Community Water Supply and
 Sanitation projects in areas not then covered by City Water Services and for undertaking studies
to identify and design future water sources and sanitation improvements.           The Project was
designed to provide City Water Services with substantial control over the operations of the water
 supply and sewerage systems in the DAWASA designated service area. Four contracts were
signed by D A W A S A and City Water Services on February 19,2003: a Lease Contract, a Supply
and Installation o f Plant and Equipment (SIPE) contract, a Purchase o f Goods (POG) contract
and a Government Subloan Agreement. A Development Contract was also signed between the
United Republic o f Tanzania and D A W A S A setting out the framework for the development o f
capital investments.

4.      Inexchange for a monthly rental fee, the Lease Contract transferred DAWASA's rights
and responsibilities for providing water supply and sewerage services, including billing and
collection, to City Water Services; covering substantially all o f the D A W A S A service area. The
Lease Contract also engaged City Water Services to design, procure, and supervise construction
contracts to rehabilitate and to extend the secondary and tertiary water mains in the D A W A S A
designated service area (the "Delegated Works").           The SIPE contract engaged City Water
Services to undertake priority works to strengthen water treatment, transmission and distribution
assets, pending the procurement o f major rehabilitation contracts funded by the EIB and AfDB.
The SIPE contract included the procurement o f bulk meters, which are needed to set up pressure
zones for better control o f the water distribution system. The POG contract engaged City Water
Services to procure 173,000 customer meters needed to improve water management and
customer billing and collections. Under the Lease Contract, City Water Services was to meter all
government and large commercial customers within the first year.               Under the Subloan
Agreement, D A W A S A agreed to on-lend $5.5 million to City Water Services to finance the
initial procurement o f consumables and operating equipment, such as vehicles and computers,
etc., and to help offset operating cash deficits in early years until billing and collection
improvements made operations financially sustainable. This is financed from the Operating
Costs expenditure category.

5.      Both City Water Services and D A W A S A were separately licensed to provide water and
sewerage services under the Electricity and Water Utilities Regulatory Authorities Act o f 2001
by the responsible Minister o f Water acting as the Interim Regulator. As provided under the
Lease Contract, separate water supply and sewerage Operator and Lessor tariffs were approved
by the regulator for City Water Services and DAWASA. A special First New Domestic Water
Supply Connection fee was to be charged on water consumption, collected by City Water
Services, held in trust, and used to finance new connections for the poor.           The combined
customer water supply tariff included a life-line provision inthat domestic water customers only
paid the Operator tariff for the first 5 cubic meters o f water consumed.

PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

6.      As mentioned above, the Project became effective on July 31, 2003.            The Operator
mobilized inAugust 2003 and began the take over o f operating staff and assets inthe D A W A S A
designated service area. Within the first 12 months City Water Services was inbreach o f many
key provisions o f the Lease Contract. Inparticular, CWS had begun to consistently fail to remit

                                                  - 3 -


the Lessor tariff to DAWASA and to deposit the First Time New Domestic Water Supply
 Connection Fee into the First Time New Domestic Water Supply Connection Fund on a timely
basis. Beginning in July 2004, City Water Services ceased payment o f the monthly rental fee to
DAWASA.        Initially, City Water Services sought a substantial Operator tariff increase to
alleviate its cash flow difficulties, under the "material change" provisions o f the Lease Contract.
In August      2004,    an audit     ordered by the Interim Regulator           and conducted by
PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC) to determine whether changes in key assumptions, such as
water available for sale or costs o f production, warranted a tariff increase under the Lease
Contract. When PWC found that no "material changes" had occurred, City Water Services
sought to renegotiate the Lease Contract.

7.      IDA assisted with the formal renegotiation attempt during April and May 2005 by
funding aregulatory specialist to facilitate the discussions betweenthe parties. The renegotiation
was not successful, however, and D A W A S A terminated the Lease on June 1, 2005. Following
the termination o f the City Water Services Lease Contract, IDA engaged the Government to
ensure continuity in the delivery o f water supply and sewerage services and to maintain the
policy framework for the Project.        The Government agreed to an interim arrangement that
retained the separation o f the responsibilities between the Operator and DAWASA, as the asset
holder, to facilitate the future transition to private sector participation. A new entity, the Dar es
Salaam Water and Sewerage Corporation (DAWASCO) was formed under the Public
Corporations Act, with capital o f TZS 2 billion to be provided by the Government. DAWASCO
took over City Water Services' responsibilities on June 1, 2005, and began implementing a 100
Day Rescue Plan inJuly 1, 2005. A new Lease Contract and Subloan Agreement for $6 million
were signed between D A W A S A and DAWASCO in September 2005 both taking effect
retroactively as o f July 1, 2005. A new Development Contract was also entered into between the
Government and DAWASA.

8.      The Project continues to record steady progress in spite o f the drawn out and failed
renegotiation process with City Water Services surrounding the Lease contract as well as delays
encountered on some components o f the rehabilitation program.               Most o f the contracts
(rehabilitation o f water treatment plant-CP1, rehabilitation o f transmission mains-CP2,
rehabilitation o f sewerage network-CP5) are under execution; rehabilitation o f sewage treatment
ponds-CP4 and rehabilitation o f sewage pumping stations-CP6 are at advanced stages o f
procurement processing. Progress on Part 1 o f the rehabilitation o f the distribution network
under the delegated works contract is encouraging. Disbursements are on track (a little over 30%
o f IDA financing after about 24 months o f implementation). After falling behind for a number
o f months, D A W A S A is currently in compliance with maintenance o f minimum balance in the
operating account.

9.      While the termination o f the Lease (after 22 months o f implementation) has not had a
significant impact, it has been agreed to move the mid-term review by six months (December
2006) to allow time for the new implementation arrangements to set in. However, given the
uncertainty surrounding the capacity o f the new operator (DAWASCO), the supervision team
has recommended the downgrading o f the Project Development Objective rating to Moderately
Satisfactory (MS) and the Implementation Progress rating (E') to Moderately Unsatisfactory

                                                 - 4 -


(MU). These ratings will bereviewed duringthe enhancedmonitoring periodofone year (up to
June 30,2006).

PROPOSEDAMENDMENTS AND IMPLICATIONS ON PROCUREMENT,
SAFEGUARDS AND THE MONITORING AND EVALUATIONFRAMEWORK

10.     The proposed amendments will (i) the change in implementation arrangements
                                               reflect
resulting from the change o f Operator from City Water Services to DAWASCO; (ii)              reflect
changes to the Project description stemming from the change inthe status o f works mapped for
supervision by the Operator under the original lease from delegated to non-delegated inthe new
lease with DAWASCO and the introduction o f new activities under the non-delegated works;
(iii)makethenecessaryreallocationofcreditproceedstoreflectthechangedsituationincluding
allowance for a new subloan to DAWASCO and additional resources for TrainingKapacity
Buildingandnew emergency items identified duringexecution o fthe Project; and(iv) extendthe
Project closing date by 12 months on account o f the loss o f execution momentum arising from
the protracted failed Lease contract re-negotiation process and delays encountered in
procurement processing and mobilization o f contractors on key contract packages and the
completion dates o f certain activities such as the development o f the strategic sanitation plan on
waste water management and drainage and the feasibility study and design work for waste water
management facilities by six months from December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007,
respectively; and (v) reflect any necessary changes to the Project's performance monitoring
indicators.

    (a) Changes in Implementation Arrangements: The termination o f the Lease Contract
    ended City Water Services' role as the Operator. This role has been assigned to DAWASCO
    since June 1,2005. City Water Services' role inthe design and supervision o f the secondary
    and tertiary water mains (Le., the Delegated Works) also ceased on termination. The City
    Water Services' SIPE and POG contracts were similarly suspended. To complete the works
   begun under the SIPE contract, D A W A S A intends to engage the principal SIPE
    subcontractor(s) as the prime contractor(s).    The POG contract will be terminated, as the
    100,000 meters already purchased are judged to be adequate to cover requirements through
   the end o f the Project. D A W A S A expects to enter into a contract with the existing Non-
   Delegated Works Construction Supervision Consultant or a new engineering services firm to
   continue its supervision of Delegated Works contracts started before the termination o f the
   Lease Contract as well as design and supervision o f the remaining secondary and tertiary
   rehabilitation packages. DAWASCO will not be responsible for any new Delegated Works
   contracts, except for the installation o f customer connections and water kiosks or elements of
   the delegated works that will be assigned from time to time.

   (b) ProjectDescription:The Project components remain substantially unchanged as per the
   existing Project description. One significant change i s the reduced order o f meters from
    173,000 to the current stock o f 100,000. Three new works components are being requested:
        1) Groundwater development: This involves drilling three deep, large-capacity
           boreholes to test the water quality and capacity o f the large, deep aquifer located
           under Dar es Salaam (identified by the Future Water Sources Study).

                                            - 5 -


      2) Repair of a breach on Ruvu River at Kidgozero:           Unless corrected this will
         substantially lessen the water available to the DAWASA water supply system,
         especially during periods o f drought.
      3) Construction of a waste managementfacility: This would handle solid waste for the
         city o f Dar es Salaam and allow for disposal o f sludge from the wastewater ponds,
         which i s currently beingaccumulated onsite.

(c) Re-Allocation of Credit Proceeds: IDA commitment to the Project will remain at the
original SDR 45,000,000.00.      Allocations to Categories 1, 4, and 5 will increase whereas
Categories 2, 3, and 7 will decrease. The proposed changes to schedule 1are as follows, and
are reflected inthe table below.

   0   Provide additional funds o f SDR 2,450,000 for Category 1(Works);
   0   Reduce by SDR 2,750,000 the amount for Category 2 (Goods);
   0   Reduce by SDR 1,300,000 the amount for Category 3 (Consulting Services);
   0   Provide additional funds o f SDR 350,000 for Category 4 (Training);
       Provide additional funds o f SDR 3,600,000 for Category 5 (Support to Operator); and
   0   Reduce by SDR 2,350,000 the amount for Category 7 (Unallocated).

                   Category                 I  Original    I  Change     I   Revised    I
                                                              Amount
    1.Works                                    14,250,000      2,450,000     16,700,000
    2. Goods                                    6,300,000     -2,750,000      3,550,000
    3. Consulting Services                     16,900,000     -1,300,000     15,600,000
    4. Training                                   350,000        350,000        700,000
    5. Operating Costs o f the Operator         4,000,000      3,600,000      7,600,000
    6. Refundingo f the Project Preparation       850,000              0        850,000
    Advance
    7. Unallocated                              2,350,000     -2,350,000              0
    Total                                      45,000,000              0    45,000,000

The increase inworks is to accommodate scope and price changes on existingcontracts and
to include three new activities: (i) water development; (ii)
                                    ground                          Kidogozero breach repair;
and (iii)waste management facility.        The increase was partially offset by the shift o f
Delegated Works amounts to the AfDB. The decrease in goods reflects the reduction inthe
number of customer meters to be procured under the POG contact and the shift of pipe
procurement into supply and installation contracts classified as works.      The decrease in
consulting services i s due principally to the reallocation o f the contingency to other
categories. Training was increased by $500,000 to build capacity at DAWASA and the
MinistryofWater andLivestock Development. The Operating Costs category was increased
by$6 million to provide operational support to DAWASCOthrough the Subloan mechanism.
City Water Services didnot utilize the entire $5.5 million Subloan available to it.

(d) RetroactiveFinancing:Giventhe emergency circumstances surrounding the termination
o f the Lease, the IDA management team, in discussion with the Government proposed the
advancing o f resources by DAWASAto DAWASCO for the purchase o f essential chemicals,

                                                 - 6 -


     other consumables to ensure uninterruptedwater supply and sewerage services. Additional
     resources for the hiring o f short-term technical assistance and logistical support in the
     execution o f the 100 days Rescue Plan were also recommended during the June 2005 joint
     supervision mission by all three co-financiers o f the Project.      Consequently, retroactive
     financing o f an estimated $3,157,000 (SDR 2,230,000) i s hereby proposed to be financed out
     o f the Operating Costs category for this purpose.       This will cover eligible emergency
     expenditures incurred by DAWASCO since June 1,2005.

     (e) Procurement: The Project Implementation Plan has been updated. The termination o f
     the Lease Contract has not had any material impact on the procurement plan since most o f
     the activities are Non-Delegated and, o f those which were Delegated, all contracts were
     signed with DAWASA. The Waste Management Facility will be procured under a Design,
     BuildandTransfer arrangement.

     (f) Safeguards: An Environment Management Plan and a Resettlement Policy Framework
     were prepared under the Project and new activities such as the construction o f the waste
     management facility will be undertaken in accordance with the said documents. In addition,
     the construction o f the Waste Management Facility will further enhance the mitigation
     measures for the management o f sludge from both on-site facilities and waste stabilization
     ponds.

     (g) Effect on Monitoring and Evaluation and Results Framework: The main departure
     from forecasted monitoring indicators (Schedule 5 o f the Development Credit Agreement) is:
     (i) reductionofcustomermetersfrom173,000tothecurrentstockof100,000and(ii)
        the                                                                                      the
     extension o f the completion dates o f the following studies by six months (a) development a
     strategic sanitation plan for waste management and storm water drainage and (b) carrying out
     feasibility studies for the construction o f waste water management facilities and associated
    design work.       All other performance targets are deemed to be feasible based on the
     adjustment made inrevised Project Implementation Plan.

    (h) Effect On Closing Date: Given the delays encountered during the first 24 months o f
    execution o f the Project, due in part to the protracted failed negotiation between the
    executing agency and the private operator as well as teething management and procurement
    problems, the government has propose an extension o f the closing date o f the Project by 12
    months - i.e., from December 31,2008 to December 31,2009.

BENEFITS AND RISKS AFTER AMENDMENTS

11.     Benefits - There are not anticipated changes inthe benefits associated with the Project.
Reliability, affordability, and sustainability of the services will improve for the approximately
3.0 millionpeople inthe D A W A S A designated service area. With the proposed extension o f 12
months and adjustment made in the implementation program, the Project outcome o f ensuring
80% o f the population with access to piped water supply and 70% with 24-hour supply will be
attained. This will contribute to the attainment o f the M D G s for water and sanitation services in
D A W A S A designated service area specifically and Tanzania ingeneral.

                                                - 7 -


12.     Risks - The Project risk remains substantial as appraised. Most of anticipated risks
associated with the operator (poor performance, inadequate equity injection, withdrawal o f the
international operator, focus on construction rather than services to customers, etc.) emerged
during implementation.      The updated Project Implementation Plan takes cognizance o f the
Government position that the termination o f the Lease with City Water Services was one o f
contract failure, not policy failure, and therefore made the necessary adjustments to ensure that
some o f the underlying mitigation measures are addressed under the interim arrangements with
DAWASCO. The mitigation measures include (i) calibration o f the network through the
                                                       the
installation of bulk meters and (ii)the mobilization o f the customer database through the
introduction o f a new billing system i s being fast tracked. The two activities are aimed at
ensuringa more credible database (technical, financial, and commercial) for maintaining current
operations and providing better data for the mediumterm institutional correction planwhich will
includethe option o f exploring the introductiono f a potential successor private operator. A new
financial model (with a new working capital arrangements and tariff adjustments) aimed at
tracking the sustainability o fthe operation has also beenput inplace and will be monitoredunder
the enhancedsupervision period of 12months from June 1,2005.

RECOMMENDATION

13.    IamsatisfiedthattheproposedmodificationsofCr.3771-TAcomplywiththeArticles
o f Agreement o f the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
amending the legal agreements for the credit in accordance with the terms o f this memorandum.
The amendments to the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement will then be
forwarded to the Government o f the UnitedRepublic o f Tanzania for signing.



                                                                            PaulWolfowitz
                                                                            President

