Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3771 TA 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Dar es Salaam Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 23 , 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3771 TA  
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2003, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)  
the Association has received a letter from the Borrower dated March 28, 
2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies to improve the 
performance of its water supply and sanitation sector (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
(C) 
the Project will be carried out by the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage 
Authority (DAWASA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to DAWASA as set forth in this Agreement;  
(D) 
the Borrower also intends to contract additional loans from: (i) the 
African Development Bank (AfDB)  (the AfDB loan) to assist in the financing of the 
Project under terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement to be entered between 
the Borrower and AfDB (the AfDB Loan Agreement); and (ii) the European Investment 
Bank (EIB) (the EIB loan) to assist in the financing of the Project under terms and 
conditions to be set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
EIB (the EIB Loan Agreement); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
DAWASA (the Project Agreement);  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Review” means the review referred to in Article 41.5 of the 
Lease Contract (as hereinafter defined); 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a local community group(s), represented by a WUA 
(as hereinafter defined) within the DAWASA Designated Area (as hereinafter defined), 
to which or for whose benefit a Subproject Grant (as hereinafter defined) is to be given 
for the implementation of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part C.1 of the 
Project, and Beneficiaries shall mean all such Beneficiaries collectively; 
(c) 
"CBO” means a Community-Based Organization operating under the 
laws of the Borrower and meeting the criteria provided in the POM (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(d) 
“Community Liaison Office” means the office referred to in paragraph 3 
(a) (i) of  Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(e) 
“Connection Fund” means a fund to be established by the Operator, on 
behalf of DAWASA, from  customer tariffs and used to finance the construction of first- 
time domestic water supply connections within the DAWASA Designated Area (as 
hereinafter defined), and referred to in paragraph 1 (d) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“Customer Contract” means a contract to be entered into between the 
Operator (as hereinafter defined) and a customer for the provision of water and/or 
sewerage services, and referred to in paragraph 1 (d) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“DAWASA” means the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority, 
established pursuant to the DAWASA Act No. 20 of 2001; 
(h) 
“DAWASA Designated Area” means the designated area of Project 
implementation for purposes of Parts A, B, C, D, E.1, E.2 and E.3 of the Project, 
covering Dar es Salaam and part of the Coast region, as further defined in the Lease 
Contract (as hereinafter defined); 
(i) 
“DAWASA Subloan Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between  DAWASA and the Operator (as hereinafter defined), setting forth the terms and 
conditions under which a  subloan shall be provided by DAWASA to the Operator (as 
hereinafter defined) for the procurement of goods, works and services under Part D.1 of 
the Project; 
(j) 
 “Delegated Works Program” means the activities referred to in Part A.3 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be carried out by the Operator (as hereinafter 
defined) on behalf of DAWASA, as further described in the Lease Contract (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(k) 
“Development Contract” means a contract to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DAWASA in a form and substance that is satisfactory to the Association, 
outlining inter
alia
the terms and conditions under which the water supply and sewerage 
services are to be developed by DAWASA, details of the capital investment programs 
and their financing, and the tariff structure; 
(l) 
“EMP” means the environmental management plan dated January  2003, 
satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the mitigation of the 
environmental impact of the Project, as the same may be updated from time to time with 
the approval of the Association; 
(m) 
“EWURA” means the Energy and Water Utilities Regulatory Authority 
established pursuant to section 4 of the EWURA Act  No. 11 of 2001; 
(n) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(o) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means DAWASA’s fiscal year which commences 
on July 1 of each calendar year and ends on June 30 of the following calendar year; 
(p) 
“Interim Review” means the review referred to in Article 41.4 of the 
Lease Contract (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  5
-
4
-
(q) 
“Lease Contract” means the ten-year contract, dated February 19, 2003, 
entered into between DAWASA and the Operator (as hereinafter defined) specifying the 
terms and conditions under which DAWASA has contracted out its commercial and 
technical operations to the Operator (as hereinafter defined); 
(r) 
“Major Review” means the review referred to in Article 41.3 of the 
Lease Contract; 
(s) 
“MWLD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water and Livestock 
Development; 
(t) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and 
operating under the Societies Ordinance, Chapter 337 of the laws of the Borrower; 
(u) 
“Non-delegated Works Program” means the activities referred to in Parts 
A.2 and B.1 of the Project, to be carried out by DAWASA, as further described in the 
Lease Contract;  
(v) 
“Operator” means City Water Services Limited, a company established 
and operating under the Companies Ordinance, Chapter 212 of the laws of the Borrower,  
or its successor, to carry out on behalf of DAWASA its commercial and technical 
operations, as further defined in the Lease Contract; 
(w) 
“POM” means the Project operations manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, which collectively consists of: Part A: Project Implementation Plan; Part B: 
Financial Management Manual; Part C: Procurement Manual; Part D: Project 
Administration Manual; Part E: Safeguards Manual; and Part F: Community Water 
Supply & Sanitation Program Manual, as the same may be amended from time-to-time 
with the concurrence of the Association; 
(x) 
“Priority Works Program” means the emergency rehabilitation activities 
referred to in Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to be carried out by the Operator 
on behalf of DAWASA, as further described in the Lease Contract; 
(y) 
 “Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(z) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
DAWASA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time-to-time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(aa) 
“Project Preparation Advances” means the two project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the respective terms of 
the letter agreements signed on behalf of the  Association on November 4, 1998 and  
June 21, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on November 12, 1998 and July 2, 1999; 
(bb) 
“Project Quarter” means the three-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending three months thereafter (the First Project Quarter) and any 
subsequent three-month period thereafter;  
(cc) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework dated January 
2003, agreed with the Association for the compensation of persons affected by the 
construction activities to be implemented under the Project; 
(dd) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(ee) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 3 
(a) (ii) of  Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(ff) 
“Subproject” means a specific water and/or sanitation Subproject 
financed or to be financed by a Subproject Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided from 
the proceeds of the Credit under Part C.1 of the Project; 
(gg) 
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
DAWASA and the Beneficiary’s WUA (as hereinafter defined), and referred to in 
paragraph 3 (c) (v) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(hh) 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
DAWASA to, or for the benefit of a Beneficiary, finance a Subproject; 
(ii) 
 “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and DAWASA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement 
with respect to both the loan and grant portions of the proceeds of the Credit, as the same 
may be amended from time-to-time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement; 
(jj) 
“Tanzanian Shillings” or “Tshs” means the currency of the Borrower; 
and  
Page  7
-
6
-
(kk) 
“WUA” means a Water User Association established by a Beneficiary 
under the Societies Ordinance,  Chapter 337 of the laws of the Borrower, to plan and 
manage water and sanitation facilities on its behalf. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-five million Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 45,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) under Part C of the Project to meet the reasonable costs of 
goods, works and services required for a Subproject in respect of which withdrawal from 
the Credit Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amounts of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
Page  8
-
7
-
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2013 and ending  May 15, 2043. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  To this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:  
(i) 
duly and punctually perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Development Contract all its obligations therein set forth 
and shall exercise its rights thereunder in such manner as to 
Page  10
-
9
-
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and 
(ii) 
cause DAWASA to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement and the Development Contract all the 
obligations of DAWASA therein set forth, take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
DAWASA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry or cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the implementation 
program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with DAWASA, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, and shall 
include the following: 
(i) 
part of the proceeds of the Credit in the amount of forty million 
United States Dollars equivalent (US$40,000,000), shall be 
provided by the Borrower on a grant or equity basis to finance 
the expenditures under Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project;  
(ii) 
part of the proceeds of the Credit in the amount of twenty-one 
million five hundred thousand United States Dollars equivalent 
(US$21,500,000) shall be re-lent to DAWASA to finance the 
expenditures under Categories 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, under terms 
and conditions that shall have been approved by the Association 
which shall include the following: 
(A) 
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be 
repaid by DAWASA in Tanzanian Shillings to the 
Borrower over fifteen (15) years, including a grace 
period of five (5) years, with the interest incurred during 
such grace period capitalized and repaid under the same 
terms and conditions as the principal amount; 
Page  11
-
10
-
(B) 
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by 
DAWASA shall be the equivalent in Tanzanian Shillings 
of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn 
from the Special Account, determined as of the date, or 
respective dates of withdrawal from such account; 
(C) 
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of 
the subsidiary loan at a rate of eleven and one-half per 
cent  (11
1/2%
)
per annum; and 
(D) 
the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the 
Borrower; and 
(iii) 
for purposes of Section 3.01 (c) (i), grants received for DAWASA’s 
capital expenditures shall be recorded as equity. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement 
or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, in conjunction with DAWASA: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after  the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project designed to ensure its sustainability; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower and DAWASA on the said plan. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
DAWASA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall for purposes of making the counterpart 
contribution  to the financing of the Project: 
Page  12
-
11
-
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of  the Project, a 
Project Account in Tanzanian Shillings in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of five hundred 
million Tanzanian Shillings (Tshs 500,000,000) by the Effective Date, as provided in 
Section 6.01 (f) of this Agreement, and an additional deposit  of two hundred fifty million 
Tanzanian Shillings (Tshs 250,000,000) within the First Project Quarter; 
(c) 
thereafter cause DAWASA to replenish the said account up to the initial 
amount of seven hundred fifty million Tanzanian Shillings (Tshs 750,000,000) at the end 
of each Project Quarter until the completion of the Project, or whenever its balance shall 
be less than two hundred fifty million Tanzanian Shillings  (Tshs 250,000,000); and 
(d) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services for the Project in addition to those financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
(iii) 
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall or cause DAWASA to: 
Page  13
-
12
-
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall have failed to perform an obligation under the 
Development Contract which in the opinion of the Association would have a material and 
adverse effect on the implementation of the Project, or shall have amended or caused to 
be amended any of the provisions of the Development Contract without the prior 
approval of the Association. 
(c) 
DAWASA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement and the Development Contract, or shall have amended or caused to be 
amended any of the provisions of the Development Contract without the prior approval of 
the Association. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this  
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that DAWASA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(e) 
DAWASA or the Operator  shall have failed to perform their respective 
obligations under the Lease Contract or the DAWASA Subloan Agreement, or shall have 
amended or caused to be amended any of the provisions of the said contract or agreement 
without the approval of the Association. 
(f) 
DAWASA or the Operator shall, have in the opinion of the Association, 
changed its legal character, ownership or control from that prevailing as of the Effective 
Date of this Agreement, so as to materially and adversely affect the ability of DAWASA 
or the Operator to perform any of their respective obligations arising under or entered 
into pursuant to this Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project. 
(g) 
The DAWASA Act or the EWURA Act shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Association, 
affect materially and adversely the ability of DAWASA and EWURA to perform their 
respective  obligations with respect to the Project. 
(h) 
EWURA shall have revoked the licenses of DAWASA and/or the 
Operator. 
 (i) 
The AfDB Loan or  the EIB Loan shall have failed to become effective 
within twelve (12) months of the Effective Date of this Agreement. 
 
(j) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
(A)  
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EIB Loan or the AfDB Loan made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the respective terms of the EIB Loan Agreement and the 
AfDB Loan Agreement; or 
(B)  
the EIB Loan or the AfDB Loan shall have become due 
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:  
Page  15
-
14
-
(A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; 
and  
(B) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (e) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;  
(b) 
any of the events specified in paragraphs (f), (g)  (h) and (i) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and 
(c) 
the event specified in paragraph (j) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (j) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and DAWASA;  
(b) 
the Development Contract has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and DAWASA; 
(c) 
the DAWASA Subloan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
DAWASA and the Operator; 
Page  16
-
15
-
(d) 
an initial contribution to the capital stock of the Operator in the amount 
of two million five hundred thousand United States Dollars equivalent (US$2,500,000) 
has been paid by the Operator; 
 (e) 
DAWASA has appointed an engineering and a financial advisor, a 
financial and technical auditor, and construction supervision consultants to assist in 
Project implementation, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, and with qualifications and experience that are satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 (f) 
DAWASA has opened a Project Account and the initial contribution of 
Tshs 500,000,000 has been deposited therein. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by DAWASA, and 
is legally binding upon DAWASA in accordance with its terms; 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and DAWASA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and DAWASA in 
accordance with its terms;  
(c) 
that the execution and delivery of the Development Contract have been 
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DAWASA by all necessary action and 
are legally binding upon the Borrower and DAWASA in accordance with their respective 
terms;  
(d) 
that the execution and delivery of the DAWASA Subloan Agreement 
have been duly authorized or ratified by DAWASA and the Operator by all necessary 
action and are legally binding upon DAWASA and the Operator in accordance with their 
respective terms; and 
(e) 
that the execution and delivery of the Lease Contract has been duly 
authorized or ratified by DAWASA and the Operator by all necessary action and are 
legally binding upon DAWASA and the Operator in accordance with their respective 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P. O. Box 9111 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 
Tanzania 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
TREASURY 
 
 
41329 
 
(255) 222 11 77 90 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By /s/ Gray S. Mgonja 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s
/
Judy M. O’Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Credit Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in SDRs)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works for Parts A, C 
14,250,000 
100% of foreign 
 
and D.5 of the Project 
 
expenditures and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Goods for Parts A, C, D.4 
6,300,000 
100% of foreign 
 
and D.5 of the Project 
 
expenditures 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services 
16,900,000 
93%  
 
 
(including  audits) 
 
for Parts A, B.2, C, 
   
 
D.2,  D.5 and Part E  
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
(4) 
Training for Parts C.3                            350,000 
100% 
 
 
 
and D.3 of the Project                            
 
(5) 
Operating Costs of the       
4,000,000 
   85% 
 
Operator under Part D.1 
 
 
of the Project 
 
(6) 
Refunding of 
850,000 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
 Advance 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
2,350,000 
 
_________
45,000,000 
 TOTAL 
======== 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods, works, or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods, works or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods, works or services shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures; and 
(c) 
“Operating Costs” means the following costs incurred by the Operator in 
carrying out commercial and technical operations on behalf of DAWASA, as further 
defined in the Lease Contract: water and sanitation equipment, spare parts, chemicals, 
construction of offices and depots, vehicles, office equipment, software, mapping, 
utilities, and short term consultancies. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for contracts for: (a) consulting firms not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (b) individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each; (c) works not exceeding $500,000 equivalent each; (d) goods not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; and (e) training, under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to provide reliable, affordable and sustainable 
water supply and sanitation services in the DAWASA Designated Area through: (a) 
rehabilitation of facilities for production, transmission, storage and distribution of 
drinking water, and waste water collection and treatment; (b) extension of piped water 
supplies; and (
c) reorganization of DAWASA’s operations to achieve effective service 
delivery and financial sustainability. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation and Extension of Water Supply Facilities
1. 
Priority Works Program
:
(a) emergency rehabilitation of the Upper Ruvu, Lower 
Ruvu and Mtoni water supply production units and transmission mains; and (b) 
acquisition of approximately one hundred seventy-three thousand (173,000) customer 
meters. 
 2. 
Non-delegated Works Program
:
(a) rehabilitation of: (i) water supply production 
units and transmission mains on the Upper Ruvu, Lower Ruvu and the Mtoni water 
production units, including inter
alia
washouts, valves, flow meters, pressure reducers, 
chambers, thrust blocks and river crossings; and (ii) water storage reservoirs at the 
University of Dar es Salaam and Kimara; and (b) construction of a 5,000 m
3
water storage 
reservoir in Mbezi. 
3. 
Delegated Works Program
:
(a) rehabilitation  of secondary distribution pipes, 
approximately 135,000 connections, and water kiosks; and (b) extension of secondary 
distribution pipes including the construction of approximately 900 kilometers of small 
diameter pipes, 35,000 new connections, and 250 water kiosks. 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the supervision of the 
implementation of this component. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Part B
:
Rehabilitation and Extension of Sewerage and Waste Water Treatment Facilities
1.  
(a) Desludging and rehabilitation of nine stabilization ponds; (b) rehabilitation of 
approximately 170 kilometers of sewers, 3,100 manholes, a one kilometer marine outfall, 
15 pumping stations and the Buguruni casting facility. 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the supervision of the 
implementation of  this component. 
Part C
:
Community Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities
1. 
Provision of Subproject Grants to Beneficiaries to finance the cost of civil works, 
equipment and technical advisory services for the implementation of Subprojects, 
including inter
alia
bulk supply points, stand alone boreholes, pump houses, water storage 
facilities and distribution networks.  
2. 
Carrying out of a hygiene awareness campaign through the development of 
media programs and community consultations. 
3. 
Carrying out of training to CBOs and NGOs selected to provide assistance to 
Beneficiaries on inter
alia
the identification, design and implementation of Subprojects, 
management of water and sanitation facilities, monitoring and evaluation, and financial 
management. 
Part D
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Assistance to the Operator, including the construction of offices and depots, and  
the provision of  goods and  services. 
2. 
(a) Provision of financial, engineering, legal, environmental and communication 
technical advisory services to assist DAWASA in its operations; (b) technical and 
financial audits; and (c) an assessment of the institutional arrangements for the provision 
of water and sewerage services. 
3. 
Provision of training to staff from DAWASA and MWLD on regulation and 
pricing of water and sanitation services, procurement and project management. 
4. 
Strengthening the operational capacity of DAWASA through: (a)  the acquisition 
of office and operational equipment, spare parts and vehicles; and (b) maintenance of 
water supply and sanitation infrastructure. 
Page  23
-
22
-
5. 
Strengthening the operational capacity of the  Wami/Ruvu river Basin Office 
through: (a) the construction of gauging stations; and (b) provision of technical advisory 
services, vehicles, computers and flow measurement equipment. 
Part E
:
Preparation of a Medium-Term Water Supply and Sanitation Development 
Program
1. 
(a) Carrying out of a feasibility study on surface and ground water options for 
water production for the DAWASA Designated Area,  including an assessment of the 
capacity of aquifers and the identification of future raw water sources; and (b) the 
preparation of an environmental assessment and mitigation plan. 
2. 
Carrying out of a water demand assessment, feasibility studies and the design 
work for the construction of additional water production, transmission and distribution 
facilities. 
3. 
 (a) development of a strategic sanitation plan on waste management and storm 
water drainage; and (b) carrying out of a feasibility study and design work for the 
construction of waste management facilities; and 
4. 
Development of a national urban water supply and sanitation strategy. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Implementation Program 
1. Project 
Management
:
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the POM, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive, any provisions 
of the POM if such amendment or waiver, may in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project; and 
 (b) 
cause MWLD to collaborate with DAWASA in the implementation of 
Parts D.3 and D.5 of the Project, such areas of collaboration including but not limited to 
the clearance of terms of reference, supervision of output reports and authorization of 
payments for completed consultancies. 
2. Safeguard 
Policies
:
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) (i) ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the provisions of 
the Resettlement Policy Framework and the EMP, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the aforementioned, if such 
amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association materially or adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project; and (ii) ensure that resettlement action plans are 
prepared, as needed, in accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework, and 
submitted to the Association for its approval, prior to implementation of such plans. 
 
(b) 
ensure that an environmental adviser with qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference that are satisfactory to the Association is retained, as necessary, until 
the completion of the Project as provided under Part D.2 of the Project, to provide advice 
on environmental issues that arise during Project implementation and ensure that the 
Project is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the EMP and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework. 
Page  25
-
24
-
3. Reporting
:
(a)  
General
The Borrower shall cause DAWASA to provide to the Association copies of all 
reports submitted under Article 41 of the Lease Contract relating to the review of the 
Operator tariff including the Annual Review, the Interim Review and the Major Review, 
and subsequent communications between EWURA and DAWASA addressing issues 
identified in such reviews. 
(b) Midterm 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(ii) 
participate in the midterm review  referred to in paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement to take place by 
 
June 30, 2006, and in the preparation of a  report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(iii) 
review, jointly with the Association and DAWASA, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Monitoring Indicators 
1. Outcome/Impact 
Indicators
(a) Reliability 
of 
Service
(i) 
70% of  the customers obtain 24 hour water supply service under 
adequate pressure. 
(ii) 
100% of the water samples taken meet the water quality 
standards specified in the Lease Contract. 
(iii) 
80% of the sewage collected is treated and 95% of effluent 
samples meet standards specified in the Lease Contract. 
(b) 
Affordability of Service
(iv) 
A life-line tariff for domestic customers is fully implemented. 
(c) 
Sustainability of Service
(v) 
Revenues from water and sewerage services cover all operations 
and maintenance costs, and allow for a 10% contribution to the 
construction costs of the Project. 
2. Output 
Indicators
(a) 
Reliability of Service
(i) 
Production capacity guaranteed at 9,000 m3/d (Mtoni); 82,000 
m3/d (Upper Ruvu); and 180,000 m3/d (Lower Ruvu) by the 
year 2008. 
(ii) 
1,040 kilometers of distribution pipes installed by the year 2008. 
(iii) 
26,000 m3/day of collected sewage is treated to meet standards 
specified in the Lease Contract before discharge. 
Page  30
-
29
-
(b) 
Affordability of Service
(i) 
construction of 250 new water kiosks by 2008. 
(ii) 
 at least 80% of the new domestic water supply connections 
installed under the Project are financed from the Connection 
Fund by the year 2008. 
(iii) 
50 community water and sanitation Subprojects are constructed 
and operating by the year 2008. 
(c) 
Sustainability of Service
(i) 
173,000 meters installed by the year 2008. 
(ii) 
Unaccounted for water reduced to 35% by the year 2008. 
(iii) 
Combined collection ratio of private and public water supply and 
sewerage bills increased to 90% by the year 2008. 
(iv) 
Water resource management and corresponding environmental 
assessment carried out by the year 2007. 
(v) 
Water supply feasibility study and preliminary designs 
completed by the year 2007. 
(vi) 
Strategic sanitation plan completed by the year 2006. 
(vii) 
Sanitation feasibility study and preliminary designs completed 
by year 2007.  
(viii) 
National urban water supply and sewerage strategy prepared by 
year 2005. 
 
