Report No. 333a-PH   FILE  COPY              CIRCUIATING COPY
Report No. 333a-PH                                         IIQ BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Philippines
Appraisal of a                                                REPORTN T
Population Project                                                   WITHIN
7ON E W E?EP
May 22,1974
Population and Nutrition Projects Departrment
Not for Public use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Intemational Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not acLept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
U.S. $1.00       -  P 6.78
P1.00            =  US$ 0.147493
P1 million        =  US$ 147,493
A. ABBREVIATIONS
ASI          -      Asian Social Institute
BHS          =      Barrio Health Stations
CHEC         '      Community Hospital and Health Center
DOH          =      Department of Health
DSW                 Department of Social Welfare
FPEO         -      Family Planning Evaluation Office
FPOP         =      Family Planning Organization of the Philippines
IEC          =      Information, Education, Communications
IMCH         -      Institute of Maternal and Child Health
IPPF                International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD          =      Intra-Uterine Device
KAP          -      Knowledge, Attitude, Practice
MCC          =      Medical Care Commission
MCH/FP       =      Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MIES         =      Management-Information and Evaluation System
NEDA         -      National Economic Development Authority
NMPC         =      National Media Production Center
OHEPT        =      Office of Health Education and Personnel Training
PCU          =      Project Construction Unit
POPCOM       =      Comnission on Population
RHU          =      Rural Health Unit
RPC          =      Responsible Parenthood Council of the Philippines
RTC          =      Regional Training Centers
UNFPA        =      United Nations Fund For Population Activities
UP           =      University of the Philippines
UP-IMC       =      University of the Philippines - Institute of Mass
Communications
UPPI         =      University of the Philippines Population Institute
B. DEFINITIONS
Birth Rate          =  Annual births per 1,000 population
Death Rate          =  Annual deaths per 1,000 population
Age-Specific
Fertility Rates    =  Set of 6 or 7 rates obtained dividing the
number of annual births to mothers in each
age interval from 15 to 44 or 49 years, by
the corresponding female population in the
same age interval.



B. DEFINITIONS (Contd)
General Fertility
Rate                 -   Annual births per 1,000 women 15-44 years.  (It
is a more refined index than the Birth Rate, al-
though less refined than the Age Specific Fertility
Rates since it conceals variation according to age.)
Total Fertility Rate  -   It is the sum of age-specific birth rates, each
mult;iplied by 5 (usual age interval in years). It
is interpreted as births per woman or per 1,000
women. It is a more effective measure than the
general fertility rate, since it takes into account
age distribution of mothers.
Infant Mortality Rate -   Annual deaths of children aged less than one year,
per 1,000 live births.
Midwife                -   Auxiliary health worker with 18 months of training
in a Midwifery School, after secondary studies.
Midwife/Community
Health Worker        =   Midwife with an additional 4-month course in
community health work (this category will be
started with this project).
Rural Health Unit
(RHU)               3   Health center usually staffed with one or two
doctors and nursing staff for provision of out-
patient health and family planning services in
municipalities under 50,000 population.
Barrio Health
Station             =   Center, staffed with a midwife, which is satellite
to an RHU.
Family Planning
Clinic               =   Health Center or any private or public health
outpatient outlet which may be used exclusively
or partially to render family planning services.






PHILIPPINES: BASIC DATA
1972
2
Area (in thousanp d km ) .............................. , ********....................    300
Density (per km 2,.                                                       3
Density per arable land (km2) .....................................    761
Population (in millions) ..    .    ............. ...... .    39.0
Birth Rate (per 1,000) ... ......................                         40*
Death Rate (per 1,000)      ,000)..            .......      ......        10*
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)       ..                                80*
Rate of Natural Increase (per 1,000).            .    .                  3.0*
Total Fertility Rate              ............. . . ... .                6.4*
Age Structure (Z)
Under 15 yearsears.........                                             43*
15-64 yearsears........... . .............                              53*
65 years and overr....                        . .   . ......            O4*
Women 15-44 years (in millions).                                         8.8*
Proportion Married (1960) ..........................,.,.,.........    62%*
Percentage of Rural Population .67*
Literacy Rate (%)         ..                                              83*
Unemployment Rateate.. ....... 0.   8%
Population Per Physician .....     .      ........    .     .........  2,819
Population Per Hospital Bed.                                             657
Family Planning Acceptors (in thousands) .......          ..................    441
Dependency Ratio (1970).                                                0.87
GNP (in US$ millions at 1970 market prices)  ....        .8,468
GNP Per Capita (1971) US$        .. ..240
*Population data from 1970 Census; rates apply to intercensal
period 1960-70.






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMHARY AND CONCLUSIONS    ..............., ............. i-iv
INTRODUCTION  .......* *    o********  *.............. *........ . ....  1
I I.         DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS  ......       ........................       1
III.        THE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM  ............ .               4
A.  Organization and Administration  ...........                  4
B.  Program Performance   . ......... .o.. . .  ........... . . . . .  6
C.  Research and Evaluation  ......................               8
D.  Program Financing  ..    .........................            8
IV.         HEALTH SERVICES IN RELATION TO FAMILY PLANNING   ...               9
A.  Rural Health Units  ....          .     ... ......  ..        9
B.  Puericulture Centers    *.....                               10
C.  Family Planning in Hospitals                ...              10
D.  The Philippine Medical Care Commission            .....      10
E.  Health Manpower  ..............       .............         11
V.          THE PROJECT          .......................... .o......          14
A.  POPCOM's Project Component  .............        ......      14
B. Rural Health and Family Planning Service Component -
Departments of Health and of Social Welfare..             16
C.  Regional Training Center .................        . .        19
D.  Direct Project Assistance to the Department
of Health ..........................       .... o ...     21
VI.         PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT, AND
IMPLEMENTATION .23
A.  Cost ......             .......... ..                       23
B.  Proposed Financing  ................     o ..........        25
C.  Procurement   ................................               25
D.  Implementation  .......          ........................    26
E.  Sites   .......... o    ..........................           26
F.  Disbursements ........          .........................    27
VII.        PROJECT JUSTIFICATION   ........ o. - ...... o  .......           28
VIII.       RECOMMi&IDATIONS  ................   o      ........_......       29



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.  Demographic Analysis
2. Training In Family Planning
3. Agreement Between The Government~ Of The Philippines
And The UNFPA On IEC Component
4. Rural Health Units
S. Midwifery Education
6. Total Project Cost By Donor Agency
7. Illustrative Terms Of Reference For Facilities Evaluation Study
8. Civil Works
9.  Non-Construction Project Component Costs
10. Disbursement Schedule
MAP
IBRD 10813 - Philippines Population Project
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Philippines in March-April 1973 and a special civil works mission which
completed appraisal of construction components in July-August 1973. The
first mission consisted of Mrs. M.N. Maraviglia (Population Specialist,
Mission Chief), Dr. L.S. Sodhy (Public Health Specialist, Deputy Mission
Chief), Mr. J. Burfield (Architect), Mr. J. de Vries (Economist), and
Mr. R. Cuca (Demographer) from the Bank; and Miss M. Zapenas (WHO), Mr. A.V.
Shianmugan (UNESCO) and Ur. J.E. Lundeberg (Institutet for sjukhusplanering,
Stockholm, Sweden) as consultants for nursing, communications and architecture,
respectively. The second mission was formed by Mr. D. Shoesmith and Mr. L.
Nield (Architect/Planners, Consultants) and Dr. T.I. Kim from the Bank.
Mr. Zaidan led both missions during the first week.  This report was prepared
by Mrs. M.N. Maraviglia incorporating the contributions of several mission
members in particular sections.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        This report describes a population project in the Philippines for
which a Bank loan of US$25 million is proposed. The project's main objec-
tive is to assist the Government of the Philippines in strengthening its
population program and expanding it into the rural and semi-rural.areas
where almost 70% of the population lives. Extended coverage of the family
planning program is essential in order to enhance the possibility of a
moderately fast decline in fertility, which would result in a population of
nearly 79 million in the year 2000, compared to 102 million if fertility
remains at the present level. The project would be implemented by the
Commission on Population (POPCOM), the Department of Health (DOH) and the
Department of Social Welfare. It would strengthen the coordinating and
monitoring capacity of POPCOM to direct the program and would increase the
outreach and effectiveness of the Departments of Health and Social Welfare
to render family planning services to rural and poor people. To this end,
the project includes the reorganization of POPCOM and assistance to the
Department of Health to establish a rew system of health delivery in rural
and semi-rural areas; buildings will be financed for 205 Rural Health Units
and 11 Regional Training Centers. Additional reoriented midwifery personnel
will be assigned to implement the new service system.
ii.       The Republic of the Philippines is experiencing a high population
growth rate of about 3% per year. If the high birth rate (40 per 1,000) and
the low death rate (10 per 1,000) continue at current levels, the present
population of more than 40 million would double in about 20 years. At
present, about half of the national investments must be devoted to absorbing
the population increase. The prospect of further mortality reductions makes
the need for fertility decline even more urgent.
iii.      The concept of family planning has been spread by private voluntary
groups since the mid-fifties. Their activities increased considerably in the
1960s with financial help from foreign agencies. In February 1969, President
Marcos by an Executive Order established the Commission on Population to
formulate policy and program recommendations in the population field. In
1970, family planning became official policy and POPCOM started to act as
the official coordinating body of some 25 agencies engaged in population and
family planning activities. Under Martial Law, POPCOM's functions have been
stressed by the Government through recent Presidential decrees.
iv.       Data on program performance indicate an impressive increase in the
number of new acceptors, from 43,000 in 1968 to about 440,000 in 1972-73 (about
8% of all married women). As of June 1973, there were over 2,100 clinics
belonging to some 25 organizations. Of this number, 1,500 clinics were under
three institutions, one of which was the DOH with 1,273 clinics. All methods



- ii -
of fertility control, except abortion, are available through the family planning
program; however, there is a preference for oral contraceptives. Although the
program performance so far has been encouraging, much more needs to be done to
achieve sustained long-term fertility decline, which would bring the total
fertility rate down to 60% of its present value by the year 2000, and would
result in an average annual growth rate of population close to 2%, instead
of the present 3%.
v.        The administration of this considerably expanded program will call
for changes, reorientation and reinforcement in several fields of activity
including organization and management, logistics, training, service procedures,
manpower utilization and program evaluation.  The project will be implemented
by the POPCOM, the Department of Health and the Department of Social Welfare,
with the participation of other private and Government institutions as
required. Its inputs have been selected to enable the extension of family
planning services and motivation programs; they will:
(a) Strengthen the coordinating capacity of the POPCOM, including
new Regional Offices, to conduct the population program;
(b) Extend and reinforce the rural health and family planning
delivery system of the Department of Health (both facilities
and manpower);
{c) Provide health and family planning training to Government
Personnel, emphasizing new procedures of health and family
planning service delivery using paramedical staff, through 11
new Regional Training Centers of the Department of Health;
and
(d) Provide direct assistance to the Department of Health through
salary support and advisory services for organization of
training, the statistical system, new RHU procedures and
logistics and supplies distribution.
vi.       The Government has made a number of organizational changes within
the POPCOM, some of which will be executed as components of this project.
The latter include a new Information, Education and Communications (IEC)
Division, a new Training Division and eleven POPCOM Regional Offices. Re-
current expenditures for the IEC Division will be financed by the UNFPA for
four years.  Initial financing for the Regional Offices and four-year
financing for the Training Division will be provided by the USAID.
vii.      The Department of Health's role in this project will consist of
establishing a new approach to health and family planning service delivery
and public outreach using auxiliary personnel (midwives) to serve effectively
the rural and small urban areas where about 70% of the population live. The



- iii -
project will provide new buildings for 205 Rural Health Units (RHU), staff
housing for remote areas, 11 new Regional Training Centers, vehicles, and
equipmer.. Although buildings represent a large proportion of total project
cost (aEiout 65%), the outstanding characteristic of the DOH component is the
new health and family planning service approach. Technical assistance and
salary support given through the project to some innovative parts of this
program will be significant in terms of the volume of activity which they
will generate and their influence on the national family planning program.
This includes financing on a declining basis for the salaries of 2,400 ad-
ditional midwives for family planning and community health work.
viii.     The proposed new system will be built upon the principle that the
locus of health and family planning services and administration in each
municipality of 10-50,000 population should be a RHU known as Type A. This
RHU (158 of which will be built through this project) will be located in the
"poblacion" (generally the largest barrio) to care for the immediate popu-
lation of about 15,000. Barrio Health Stations (BHS) (existing or to be
provided by Government outside of this project) would form satellites to the
RHU and each would take care of about 5,000 people. BHSs would be manned
by a new cadre of midwives retrained through the project in the Regional
Training Centers. Also, 47 Type B Rural Health Units for municipalities with
5,000 to 10,000 population will be built through the project. In all new and
existing DOH facilities advice and services on all family planning methods
approved for the national family planning program will be offered to the public.
ix.       The evaluation of the national family planning program will continue
to be carried out mainly by the POPCOM through a Management Information System
(MIS) Unit and an Evaluation Unit which operate as part of POPCOM's Planning
Division, with UNFPA financing. The DOH Project components will be evaluated
by the statistical services of the DOH and by a Facilities Evaluation Study
to be initiated in July 1976. Both DOH activities will be financed through this
project.
x.        Availability of physicians and paramedical personnel in the
Philippines is seriously affected by emigration to developed countries
(particularly to the USA) and by uneven distribution within the country.
There is an urgent need for effective measures to prevent the massive out-
flow of health manpower. Measures to this effect were discussed with the
Government during negotiations.
xi.       The POPCOM will coordinate the work of the national agencies
participating in the execution of the project. A Project Construction Unit
(PCU) will be established in the Department of Health, headed by a Director,
who will be assisted by a Project Architect. Supporting staff and additional
professional services drawn from the public and private sectors will also be
provided as necessary.



- iv -
xii.      The Loan includes retroactive financing in the amount of $350,000
from May 1, 1974, for preliminary engineering and architectural work
and to set up the Project Construction Unit.
xiii.     Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and spare
parts required for the project which are over US$70,000 will be awarded on
the basis of the Bank's Guidelines for International Competitive Bidding.
Contractors for civil works will be prequalified and notices of invitation
will be inserted in national newspapers and circulated to the embassies of
member countries represented in the Philippines. For contracts under
US$70,000 equivalent the GOP may follow its normal procurement procedures,
provided that the aggregate cost of the goods to be procured in accordance
with this procedure shall not exceed US$200,000.  Domestic manufacturers of
furniture, equipment and vehicles will be accorded a margin preference equal
to 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports.
xiv.      The loan will finance 50% of total project costs.  Parall_1 financ-
ing from UNFPA will be provided for 1% and from the USAID for 1% of the
total project cost. The GOP would finance the remaining 48%.
xv.       Disbursements would be made for 100% of total techn,ical assistance
and the CIF cost of imported vehicles and equipment or the ex-factory cost
of domestically produced vehicles. For civil works and recurrent costs,
a fixed percentage of expenditures (39%) would be disbursed so that the loan
wotuld cover 50RO/ of total proiect costs.  On an annual basis the loan
will finance 90, 70, 50, 30 and 30% of certain salaries and other re-
current costs incurred in years I through 5 respectively (equivalent
to 39% of such costs during the period). The Commission on Audit of
the GOP will audit the accounts and financial statements of the DOH
related to the project, at least annually, and will furnish to the Bank
certified copies of such statements, no later than four months following
close of fiscal year.



I. PITRODUCTION
1.01      A Bank population sector mission visited the Philippines from
February 21 to March 23, 1973 to undertake an in-depth assessment of the
population program, at the Government's request. The findings of the mis-
sion were presented in a Population Sector Review report (No. 91-PH). The
proposed project is based on the results of the sector review and on a
Government re-examination of the national family planning program undertaken
in late 1972. Bank missions appraised the project in March-April 1973 and
helped further prepare the project in July-August 1973. Through the stages
of project development there was close coordination, both at headquarters and
in the field, with other agencies involved in supporting the program, in
particular USAID and UNFPA. Also, the missions worked in close contact with
WHO, to ensure that Bank and WHO activities in the Philippines are comple-
mentary and reinforcing.
1.02      The project was developed to respond to the country's need to
achieve sustained fertility reduction in the next two-and-a-half decades.
Although the performance of the femily planning program so far has been
encouraging, the success of the Philippines' population program will depend,
in the long run, on its ability to reach the rural population with family
planning advice and services. The proposed project would complement the
assistance received by the Government from USAID, UNFPA and other donors
for the operation of a program geared to cause a moderately fast decline
in fertility. If fertility is to decrease to 60% of the present levels
by the year 2000, over 25 million births would have to be averted during
that period. This level of fertili-fy decline would result in a population
close to 79 million by 2000, which is almost double the number currently
inhabiting the country, but some 23 million lower than the total which
would result if fertility remains at the present levels. The project would
contribute to this decline through two main components. First, it would
strengthen the coordinating capabilities of the Commission on Population.
The second component would be mainly implemented by the Department of Health
and would assist in bringing family planning services to the rural population,
without whose participation the stated fertility decline would not be
achievable.
II. DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
2.01      The demographic problem of the Philippines is mainly one of very
rapid growth resulting from sustained high fertility and declining mortality.
Its population has grown from 7.6 million in the first census taken this
century (1903), to about 40 million at present. Population growth accelerated
considerably after the Wlorld War II period. While it had taken 33 years for
the population to double between 1903 and 1936, the doubling period prior to



- 2-
the 1970 census was only 24 years. The average annual rate of growth of
about 3% in the decade 1960-70 places the country's population among the
fastest growing in the world. The following table gives evidence of these
trends:
Average Annual
Year                Population               Growth Rate
(millions)                   (%)
1903                    7.6
1918                   10.3                      2.0
1939                   16.0                      2.2
1948                   19.2                      2.1
1960                   27.1                      2.9
1970                   36.8                      3.0
2.02      According to national studies, 1/ the birth rate has been almost
constantly high (over 45 per 1,000) in the last 70 years, while mortality
(with the exception of the war years) has ber<n constantly decreasing. Esti-
mates based on the censuses of 1960 and 1970 indicate a birth rate of 40 per
1000 and a death rate of 10 per 1,000 population and a total fertility rate
of 6.4 per woman in ages 15-49 years. However, infant mortality is still
high (probably around 80 per 1,000 live births) and the emphasis on maternal
and child health programs in coming years will undoubtedly contribute to
increased life expectancy. The prospect of further mortality reductions
makes the need for fertility decline even more urgent. The main reasons
for this are inadequate food supplies, scarce employment opportunities and
the desirability of providing satisfactory education and health services to
the total population as soon as possible. Because of the high rate of popula-
tion growth, about half of national investm-nts must be devoted to absorbing
the population increase.
2.03      Although there are some indications of fertility decline in urban
areas, these are offset by the persistent trend of increasing fertility in
the rural areas. The national crude birth rate was estimated to be 43.4 to
45.6 in 1960 and preliminary census results for 1970 give indications that
currently it may be only slightly lower, around 40 per 1,000.
2.04      Persistently high fertility patterns outside the industrialized
areas of Manila and Southern Luzon appear to indicate that voluntary birth
limitation is not significantly practiced among couples living in smaller
towns and cities classified as "urban". In 1970, around 70% of the popula-
tion of the Philippines was living in rural areas and this points to the
magnitude of the task ahead.
1/   Demographic indicators used in this report have been obtained mainly
from reports and publications prepared by the University of the
Philippines Population Institute.



- 3 -
2.05      The population of the Philippines is young, with about 45% under
15 year, of age, a reflection of the high fertility level.  The dependency
ratio 1/ was 0.87 in 1970, a high value which implies the need for heavy
expenditures in services, particularly in education and health care.
2.06      Two illustrative population projections have been prepared for
this report to show alternative trends in the next three decades under the
following assumptions of fertility decline:
Projection A:  almost constant fertility;
Projection B:  modetately rapid decline in age-specific
fertility rates to 80% of the 1970 level
by 1975, and 60% by 2000.
2.07      In both projections, life expectancy at birth is assumed to increase
from 56 for males and 60 years for females in 1970, to 65 and 69 years,
respectively, in the year 2000. Projection A estimates the population trend
in the absence of a national family planning program, and measures the efforts
that would be required in terms of family planning users and births averted
to achieve a fertility decline similar to that illustrated by Projection B.
The alternative population projections are as follows:
Population Projections
(millions)
A. Constant  B. Moderately        Birth Rate   Death Rate   Growth Rate
Year  Fertility    Fast Decline         A        B    A        B    A         B
1970     36.8            36.8          40.0   40.0  10.2   10.2  3.0         3.0
1980     50.7            47.9          41.5   32.9   8.1    7.7  3.3         2.5
1990     71.6            61.8          42.2   32.6   7.0    6.9  3.5         2.5
2000    101.9            78.9          40.9   28.9   6.1    6.5  3.5         2.2
2.08      These estimates provide only a range of possibilities, yet they
serve to underline the serious implications of delays in reducing fertility.
The assumption of constant fertility up to the year 2000 gives an upper limit
of almost 102 million persons in that year. The lower population trend (79
million in 2000) would be accomplished if couples practiced family limitation
to the extent of averting over 25 million births during the next 26 years.
This would only be possible if the family planning program is successful and
if there are fairly basic attitude changes toward procreation. The project
is addressed to the need to increase the effectiveness of the family planning
program both as an instrument of communication and motivation and for the
provision of contraceptive services.
1/   Population under 15, plus the group 65 years and over, divided by
population aged 15-64. A lower ratio means a smaller burden for
"producers." In developed countries this ratio hovers around 0.5.



III.  TIE NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM
A. Organization and Administration
The Commission on Population (POPCOM)
3.01      The family planning program in the Philippines is conducted by some
25 different organizations with varying degrees of participation. This is
the result of progressive involvement of private organizations, local author-
ities, external agencies and, recently, the Central Government.  Government
and private agencies have contributed significantly to the total national
effort, but an urgent need was felt for coordination and direction of acti-
vities. The establishment of the Commission on Population (POPCOM) in the
Office of the President through an act passed by Congress in August 1971
(Republic Act 6365) was in response to this need. The act was amended by
Preside-atial Decrees No. 79 and 166 dated December 8, 1972 and March 31, 1973,
respectively. The composition of the Board of Commissioners is now as follows:
Secretary of Education and Culture, Secretary of Health, Secretary of Social
Welfare, Dean of the University of the Philippines Population Institute, the
Director-General of the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and
two members from the private sector with the necessary expertise in the field
of population planning and who are not recipients of Population Commission
program funds, appointed by the President of the Philippines for the term of
three years.
3.02      Significant changes introduced by the recent amendments are:  (a)
a larger representation from the Government in the Board; (b) representation
of NFDA through its Director, thus enabling the Commission to work directly
with the highest level of national planning; (c) a more active role in pro-
posing studies and policy related to specific population goals.
3.03      The Office of the Executive Director has a staff of some 70
persons. The Executive Director is assisted by a Deputy Director and, under
the recent reorganization, Associate Directors, each responsible for one of
following divisions: Administration, Finance Logistics, Operations, Planning,
IEC and Training. A Management Information System has been recently establish-
ed within the Planning Division; this Division is also responsible for evalu-
:ion and research.
3.04      At the time of the Bank missions, POPCOM did not have field staff;
its only visibility at the regional and provincial levels were occasional
visits from the Central staff, but this was evidently not enough to allow
for effective program coordination on a country-wide basis. The 11 regional
POPCOM offices recently established will fill this gap.



-5-
The Department of Health (DOH)
3.05      Since the private organizations and many of the provincial govern-
ments are providing family planning services through out-patient clinics in
the larger urban areas, the Department of Health is giving emphasis to the
development of family planning services in the small urban centers, barrios
and rural wreas and to the establishment of postpartum motivational programs
in its hospitals. More recently (mid-1973) the concentration of the Govern-
ment on rural health services has sharpened with particular emphasis on the
barrio level. This will facilitate considerably the expansion of the family
planning program of the Department of Health.
3.06      Within the Department of Health, the National Family Planning
Office is in charge of overall planning, administration, coordination and
evaluation of the DOH family planning program. There are currently about
1,300 Rural Health Units providing clinical and educational family planning
services, although the administrative and physical conditions of these units
will need upgrading to assume the additional tasks of the family planning
program.
3.07      The Department of Health is also involved in training medical,
paramedical and promotional personnel for the family planning program through
the Office of Hlealth, Education and Personnel Training (OHEPT) with head-
quarters in Manila and seven Regional Training Centers.
3.08      Another branch of the DOH currently involved in the family planning
program is the Bureau of Health and Medical Services. This office is re-
sponsible for the implementation of a maternity-centered family planning
project for 25 designated training hospitals. The program is operating in
15 of these hospitals and in the remaining 10 it started on July 1, 1973.
This activity is funded by UNFPA and UNICEF, with technical assistance from
WHO. As part of the larger commitment recently signed with the UNFPA, addi-
tional financial assistance would be available, depending on the results of
an evaluation now under way, to extend the project to introduce maternal and
child health and family planning services into 100 additional government
hospitals with 25 to 100 beds each.
Other Participating Government and Private Agencies
3.09      When the Government became involved in the population issue around
1969-70, various private and semi-private groups and several local and
provincial governments were already working on programs designed to encourage
fertility decline. Notable among those private agencies which carried out
pioneering work in this field are the Institute of Maternal and Child Health
(IICH), the Family Planning Organization of the Philippines (FPOP) and the
Responsible Parenthood Council (RPC). Some 20 other agencies are active in
this field. Hlowever, they operate mostly in urban areas and the task of
reaching the rural and remote regions with family planning advice and service
will remain mostly the responsibility of Government clinics.



-6-
3.10      In the field of Communications, several institutions have con-
tributed to the family planning program, carrying out projects financed
mainly by U'SAID and UNEPA. These include the Population Information and
ducation Office within the National Media Production Center; the Institute
of Mass Communications of the University of the Philippines; and the Depart-
ment of Education which is carrying out a family life education program in
public schools. The Responsible Parenthood Council and the Asian Social
Institute are currently considering new communications projects. The Depart-
ment of Social Welfare is strengthening its program of family education and
counselling for responsible parenthood through social work methods.
B. Program Performance
3.11      There were over 2,100 family planning service outlets (or clinics)
in the Philippines as of June 1973, operating under some 25 different organi-
zations. Of this number, however, over 70% belonged to three agencies (DOH,
IMCH and FPOP). The services offered by these clinics varied widely, from
full-time to one-afternnon-a-week sessions. All methods of contraception
listed in the table below are made available in these clin.cs to couples
desirous of spacing, limiting or preventing pregnancy.
3.12      Recent auditings and reviews of the family planning program's ser-
vice statistics have revealed serious deficiencies in the system, caused by
over-reporting of acceptors by clinics and reporting of women transferring
from one clinic to another, as new acceptors. The breakdown of new acceptors
by method is presented below as an indication of the general trends in program
performance:
New Acceptors
Fiscal Year                                                      Adjusted for
(April to               IUD                                    Over-reporting and/a
March)     Pills  Insertions    Rhythm        Other  Total  Clinic Transfers -
(thousands)
1969-70      52,100   17,400        10,000      10,700  100,200        89,200
1970-71     122,400   50,600        34,100      16,500  223,600       204,000
'071-72      ^51,200   72,800       52,100      36,000  412,100       343,800
1972-73     311,400   82,400        58,000    107,300  559,100       440,800
I'ercent
1972-73        55.7     14.7         10.4        19.2  100.0
/a Source: Commission on Population, Year-End Report (January-December 1972)
3.13      According to the estimates in the last column of the above tables,
in the past four years there has been a four-fold increase in the number of
new acceptors, from almost 90,000 in 1969-70 to 441,000 in 1972-73.  -Pi 
acceptors represented mr re than half of the acceptors in 1972-73; this
proportion has been increasing since the early years of the program.



- 7 -
3.14      In a national acceptor survey 1/ carried out by the Population Institute
(University of the Ohilippines), it was found that about one-third of the acceptors
in the sample lived in "barrios" or rural communities; since more than two-thirds
of the eligible women lived in these areas in 1970, this result indicates under-
representation of rural women in the program. Over 40% of the acceptors lived
in chartered cities, although the corresponding proportion of eeligible women in
those cities was only 20%. The proportions of acceptors by method and place of
residence were:
Percent
Locality               Total      Pills      IUDs     Rhythm      Other
City                    42.4       37.4      55.2        34.0      47.1
Town (poblacion) /a    23.4        25.1      16.1        32.3      24.3
Town (barrio) /a        34.2       37.5      28.7        33.7      28.6
Total                  100.0      100.0    100.0        100.0     100.0
Sample:              1,838      1,007       529         232        70
/a "Poblacion" is the seat of the municipal government and
"barrios" are rural settlements belonging to a given municipal-
ity (town).
3.15      In general, the scope of the program is growing and rightly so, since
increased efforts will be needed to achieve the long-term fertility decline
goals. The recent achievements, in program volume, however encouraging, should
not give rise to premature optimism. It is evident from the survey results
thiat there are several operational aspects of the program that need attention
and proper handling by the management. The following aspects, pointed out
in the Bank's sector report, are particularly relevant. These include:
a.   the existence of a large number of family planning service agencies
with very low performance;
b.   a more favorable clinic distribution to reach large sectors of the
rural population, with low economic status and little education
achievement who are less likely to practice family planning inde-
pendently of the program;
c.   the extension of clinic services to a daily basis in the Department
of Health RHUs and hospitals; and
d.   education/information/communication efforts parallel to the
extension of clinic services suggested in (b) and (c) including
field workers for face-to-face motivation (mainly reoriented
midwives and social welfare workers as well as other Government
field personnel which may be trained in family planning). .
1/   Laing, John E., Selected Response Distributions from the 1972 National
Acceptor Survey; Manila, February 1973.



C. Res4arch and Evaluation
3.16      Population research in the Philippines has been a function of the
tniversities. The University of the Philippines Population Institute (UPPI)
created in 1964 is the principal center of demographic training and research
in the country. Other various universities have also been active in popula-
tion research. In February 1970 the Family Planning Evaluation Office (FPEO)
was created as part of the UPPI through a contract with the University of
Chicago, under USAID financing.
3.17      The purpose of the FPEO was to set up an evaluation system for the
family planning program. This office developed a sound basis for the national
record-keeping system working together with the National Computer Center and
also carried out several special studies and surveys, within the limitations
of scarce national professional expertise in this field. In August 1973 super-
vision of the record-keeping system and routine reporting was shifted from the
FPEO to the POPCOM, with financial assistance from the UNFPA. Currently FPEO
is retaining responsibility for special surveys, tabulation and analysis of
the National Demographic Surveys and development of special statistical
methods. Processing of all service and survey data is undertaken by the
National Computer Center.
3.18      The Planning Division in POPCOM is operating the record-keeping,
reporting and evaluation system of the family planning program and will assume
coordinating duties for research. A Management Information System (as pro-
posed by the Bank Sector mission) is now being established within the Planning
Division.
D. Program Financing
3.19      The population program of the Philippines relies substantially on
external funds. The POPCOM, together with the National Economic Development
Authority, is responsible for allocating all bilateral and multilateral funds
from official sources for family planning.
3.20      USAID, which has assisted the program since its early stages, has
made the largest financial contributions. It provided US$25 million in the
period FY 1967-73, and appropriated US$7 million for FY 1974. For FY 1974, US$2.2,
million represent inputs for commodities (including contraceptives).
3.21      In January 1972, the UNFPA signed a US$3.3 million agreement with
the GOP, covering both on-going and planned projects of which about half
(US$1.4 million) is for the family life education in public schools. A
new agreement was signed in December 1973 through which the UNFPA has committed
to the COP an additional US$6 million for programs in the next five years.



-9-
3.22      There are other donors involved in financing smaller programs.
Among them, the Ford Foundation has assisted in research for several years
and initially supported the University of the Philippines Population In-
stitute. Ford's present annual level of assistance is in the order of US$0.2
million. The Pathfinder Fund has assisted with commodities to clinics and
health centers and with various smaller projects totaling US$0.6 million in
disbursements in 1972. The IPPF has been the source of funds for the FPOP
with contributions of about US$0.3 million annually. The Rockefeller Founda-
tion has supported biomedical research and has committed US$1.5 million over
a period of ten years to finance the program costs of the Population Center
Foundation Inc., built with funds contributed jointly by the GOP, the USAID,
and the Rockefeller Foundation.
3.23      Budget allocations from the GOP started in FY 1971 but were minimal
until FY 1973, when P5.9 million was appropriated; the budget for 1974 amounted
to about P40 million of which over 70% are new budgetary inputs.
IV. HEALTH SERVICES IN RELATION TO FAMILY PLANNING
A. Rural liealth Units
4.01      When the Government started the national family planning program
four years ago, it set as an objective the delivery of family planning services
through all Rural Health Units (RHUs) and Government hospitals. At present
there are about 1,500 RHUs and by June 1973 family planning services were
offered in about 1,300 of them (for details, see Annex 4, para 8). However,
in order to increase the scope of the RHUs to include these new services,
considerable improvements are required in the physical facilities (buildings,
equipment, transportation) and in the administrative arrangements and logistics
of the RHUs.
4.02      The DOH recognizes that the organization of day-to-day operations
of the RIUs and the respective functions of .he team members need a reassess-
ment, which may result in new procedures and reassignment of functions. An
operational research team assisted by WHO experts has been recently conducting
a series of studies on the existing rural health services in the Province of
Rizal near Manila in order to define the actual demand for health services
and the ways through which existing resources in the public sector have been
deployed in satisfying the health requirements of the population in rural
areas. In particular, the objective of these studies is to develop alternatives
to rationalize the distribution of duties among the health staff to improve
performance. The team has already submitted suggestions to redistribute duties
among health workers (Annex 4, Appendix 1) and in November 1973 presented a
final report, manuals of procedures and training schemes. The Health Planning
Unit of the DOH is already developing the rural health plan along lines
suggested by these studies.



- 10 -
4.03      Only 510 RHUs out of 1,454 with data available were occupying
especially designed and Government-owned buildings; the remaining RHUs were
housed in municipal buildings, multipurpose halls, puericulture centers and
rented private premises (Annex 4, Table 2). The large majority of these
facilities are in too poor condition to provide sound clinical service to
clients. (The project will finance new buildings for 205 RHUs - (paras 5.15
to 5.18). The number of Barrio Health Stations (BHS) 1/ in the country is
estimated at about 4,500, although the condii:ion of the physical facilities
and the staffing position is not known by the DOH.  The DOH agreed during
negotiations that it will carry out a survey of Barrio Health Stations in
order to undertake a program of rehabilitation of and additions to these
facilities to be financed by the GOP, which will complement the Bank project.
Such program will be submitted to the Bank for comments within the next two
years.
B. Puericulture Centers
4.04      The puericulture centers are health units with the same functions
as the RHUs. They were established much earlier, in 1921, by the National
League of Puericulture Centers, a semi-private organization. They were
created with the main objective of reducing maternal and child mortality.
They were also used by the IMCH to provide family planning services since the
early stages of the program. The staff should include a part-time physician,
a nurse and a midwife, although personnel shortages are common. In fact,
most centers are staffed only by one midwife. A revision of this ailing
system is long overdue.
C. Family Planning in Hospitals
4.05      Another branch of the DOH active in the family planning program
is the Bureau of Health and Medical Services. This office is implementing a
maternity-centered family planning project in 25 designated training hospitals,
wfith funds from UNFPA and UNICEF and technical assistance from WHO.  Addition-
al tinancial assistance would be provided by the UNFPA to extend the project to
100 additional Govermnent hospitals with 25 to 100 beds each, starting in
F' 1974-75, for a period of five years, pending evaluation of the present
c.t ivities.
1). The Philippine Medical Care Commission
4.06      The Medical Care Commission (M4CC) was created by the Republic Act
Ao. 6111 also known as the Philippine Medical Care Act of 1969 to gradually
provide medical service for all the Filipino people. The Commission consists
1/   BHSs are health posts located in rural "barrios," usually housed in
ad hoc quarters, which function only when manned temporarily by health
staff from the main RHU; some have a resident midwife as permanent staff,
generally paid from local funds.



- 11 -
of a Chairman and seven other members, one of whom is the Secretary of Health.
UInder the Community Hospital and Health Center Scheme (CHHC) the Commission
conpleted ten and expects to construct another 71 5-to-10-bed hospitals in
renote areas. It plans to staff them with two physicians each, one to be
drawn, whenever required, from a neighboring RHU and the other from the
private sector. The Commission has shown a tendency to develop a parallel
health service. There are still several aspects that the two agencies--MCC
and DOHl-need to clarify. These include their respective functions, staffing
of CHHCs and RHUs, and administration and technical supervision of the CHHCs.
The Bank mission, working in consultation with the DOH, identified the loca-
tion of the CHHCs and excluded those municipalities from the list of project-
financed RHUs. During negotiations, the GOP confirmed that it intends to
ensure that the new CHHCs will provide space for the RHU services and will
also offer family planning.
E. Eealth Manpower
Physicians
4.07      The availability of physicians and paramedical personnel in the
Philippines is seriously affected by the emigration of doctors to developed
countries (particularly the United States) and by their uneven distribution
within the country, highly unfavorable to the rural areas. A recent survey
shows that as of July 1970 there were nearly 13,000 physicians in the country
and approximately 8,300 abroad (3,500 of them on a temporary basis). The
ratio of physicians to population is 3.4 per 10,000 for the whole country
and in the rural areas it is as low as 2 per 10,000. About 40% of doctors
are concentrated in Greater Manila and over 65% in cities and provincial
capitals (including Manila). This leaves a scarce 35% for the rest of the
country.
4.08      The annual number of graduates from medical schools has declined
from 1,300 in 1965-66 to 1,100 in 1969-70 due to a decision of the Philippines'
medical colleges to limit enrollments. The number of physicians leaving the
country yearly for the United States and Canada reached over 800 in 1970.
"fore recently a small but increasing number is leaving for Australia and
Western Europe. Thus, the net addition of physicians, making allowance for
retirements and deaths, may not be higher than 100 per year, a net annual
increase of less than 1%. This is considerably below the increase of 400
doctors per year which would be necessary only to keep up with population
growth.
4.09      In order to slow down the outflow of medical (and nursing) manpower
a Presidential Decree, effective January 1, 1974, makes it compulsory for all
newly graduated physicians and nurses to serve for 6 months in rural areas.
They are being appointed to vacant positions. The DOH will spend P16 million
in the FY 1974-75 for this program, which is expected to slow down the outflow



- 12 -
and motivate some young professionals to serve in the rural areas for longer
periods. Also, a special allowance equivalent to 25% of the salary is already
in effect as an incentive for the DOH health!staff who are assigned to hardship
areas. (Through the Bank project, housing will be provided at 85 locations
tor doctors and nurses or midwives as an addi.tional incentive.)
Nursing Personnel
4.10      In the Philippines, nurses either hold a Bachelor of Science in
Nursing degree obtained in a five-year basic collegiate program or a graduate
nurse diploma granted after a basic four-year hospital training course.  Their
functions are the same for both categories and include nursing care and super-
vision of patients, implementation of physician's orders concerning treatment
and medication and community health work. 1Midwives are auxiliaries, with *18
months of training. The midwife takes care of normal childbearing women from
the beginning of pregnancy to the end of the puerperium and of normal infants
during the neonatal period.
4.11      According to a special study made by the Philippine Nurses
Association 1/ there were 18,700 nurses in 1970 and those who passed the
Board examination in that year numbered 3,000.  Another 15,000 were abroad
and 7,200 were inactive or not practicing nursing. Only 3,000 nurses worked
in rural areas pointing to a seriously uneven distribution. Emigration is
also considerable among nurses, who leave the country for the United States
and Canada at a rate of 1,400 annually. It has been observed that quite a
number are leaving annually for Western Europe. Since no complete information
is available on emigration, it is not possible to estimate the net annual gain,
although the problem of supply of nurses would appear less serious than that
mentioned for doctors. Ilowever, the tendency of nurses to concentrate in urban
areas is even more pronounced than for physicians.
4.12      There are no reliable estimates of the total number of midwives
in the country. There were, however, nearly 19,000 names on the register as
of December 1972, with no information on how many of these have emigrated,
gone abroad on a temporary basis, died, retired or moved to jobs other than
midwifery. Also, this number includes nurses that register as nurse-midwives
after providing proof of having attended 20 deliveries or after passing the
Board examination for midwives (probably 2 to 3% of all those registered).
A rough estimate, taking into account all these possibilities, is that there
were 3,000 midwives in the country in 1972.  The Government employed about
3,500 midwives in that same year and probably 1,000 were employed by the
private health sector. This estimate would leave about 3,500 midwives un-
accounted for. Currently there are 32 schools of midwifery, 29 of which are
private and under the jurisdiction of the Department of Education. Three
Government Schools functioning under the Department of Health are located in
Manila, Cebu and Butuan.  There were about 400 graduates from all private
schools yearly and a similar number from the three Government schools--about
1/   Philippine Nurses Association, Facts and Figures on Nursing, Manila,
1972.



- 13 -
800 in all. These rough estimates would seem to point to an adequate supply
of this category of personnel. Since the project implies an increased reliance
on the services of midwives, the project will stress reorientation of midwifery
training to make it more relevant to family planning work in rural areas. While
there may be some regional supply problems, the general situation suggests that
they can be overcome by proper salary differentials or other incentives.
4.13      The difficulties in recruitment of midwives in several regions are
a consequence of the uneven distribution of schools (Annex 5, Section F).
About half of the 32 schools are concentrated in or around Manila (Region IV).
There are no midwifery schools in Regions II and VIII and almost 70% of the
total student enrollment during the period 1970-72 corresponded to schools
located in Region IV.
4.14      Measures to correct this situation were discussed with the GOP during
negotiations. Assurances were obtained from the GOP to the effect that it
will establish, by December 1974, a special committee of representatives of
POPCOM, Board of Midwifery; Department of Health and Department of Education
to review the policy regarding training of midwives bo-h in the Government
and private sectors, with special emphasis on the following points:
a.   regional distribution of schools;
b.   government subsidies for operation of midwifery
schools in selected areas;
c.   role of midwives in the private sector; and
d.   modification of the curriculum of midwifery schools
(including family planning subject matter) to make it
more relevant to the work of the midwife in both private
and public sector.
4.15      Also during negotiations the GOP confirmed its intention to examine,
within the first two years of the project execution period, possible ways for
adopting an expanded scholarship scheme for midwifery students, including a
provision that they would serve in rural areas for a specified period after
graduation.
4.16      There is consensus among those working in the family planning pro-
gram that midwives would do a better job in motivating couples to adopt family
planning methods than the present lay motivators employed by the DOH for RHUs.
It is, therefore, envisaged that midwives will be increasingly used for this
task instead of the lay motivators and will thus become the key health workers
for the family planning program, both for rendering services and undertaking
face-to-face motivation of couples. Through this project, the DOR will initiate
a program for reorientation of midwives, in its Regional Training Centers, to
mnake them community health workers and will sanction and recruit midwives to
increase its number by 2,400 during the next five years. These midwives, initially
financed through this project, vill be posted as resident staff in Barrio Health
Stations and in RKUs. (The DOH plans to recruit another 2,600 midwives during
the same period to accomplish an addition of 5,000 positions.)



- 14 -
V. THE PROJECT
5.01       The success of the Philippines family planning program will largely
depend on its ability to reach and motivate the rural population and impover-
ished groups with information, advice and services. The project will comple-
ment various national and external inputs and will enable the Government to
extend the family planning program to small urban places and rural areas,
where about 70% of the population lives. It will be implemented by the
POPCOM, and the Departments of Health and of Social Welfare.  The project
will:
a.   strengthen the coordinating capability of the POPCOM and
support the development of field staff to direct the
family planning program;
b.   extend and reinforce the rural health and family planning
infrastructure of the Department of Health by establishing
a new system of health service delivery in rural areas (in
this revised system, retrained midwives will play the key
family planning role in the health team);
c.   support inservice training on health and family planning in
the Regional Training Centers of the Department of Health, by
providing new buildings for training, living accommodations
for trainees and technical assistance for reorientation of
midwifery and other inservice training; and
d.   Employ additional staff and provide equipment and technical
advisory services to the Department of Health for implementing
new RHU procedures and establishing of a new statistical system
for evaluation.
5.02       The following sections describe the four project components relating
respectively to the POPCOM, the DOH's Rural Health and family planning services,
the Regional Training Centers and the direct project assistance to the Depart-
ment of Health for technical services and evaluation.
A. POPCOM's Project Component
5.03       The Comnission will introduce staffing and administrative changes to
strengthen its effectiveness as a coordinating and monitoring body. Specifi-
cally the project will:
a.   establish in the Commission an Information, Education and
Communications (IEC) Division and a Training Division; and
b.   staff its 11 regional offices with additional manpower .
to undertake the coordination of the family planning pro-
gram at the Regional level.



- 15 -
5.04       The UNFPA will finance the recurrent expenditures of the IEC Division
for the first four years (Agreement included in Annex 3).  The USAID wlll pro-
vide funding for the Training Division (four years) and for the first year of
operations of the Regional Offices. (Agreements included in Annex 2, Appendices
I and II.) The GOP will assume funding of these activities thereafter.
IEC Division
5.05       In par with the other divisions of POPCOM a Communications Division
will be established in POPCOM with initial UNFPA financing, with the main
function of planning and coordinating all communications inputs into the popu-
lation program. The implementation of communications activities would continue
to be carried out by various agencies outside POPCOM. Details on the Communi-
cations Division component to be finxtnced by UNFPA are included in Annex 3.
Training Division
5.06       Training in family planning will continue to be conducted by five
major organizations:  DOH, the IMCH, the FPOP, the DSW, and the University
of the Philippines. It is necessary, however, that training curricula be
made uniform, and that all participating organizations adhere to the policy
decisions laid down by the POPCOM. This agency will be responsible for set-
ting standards, determining curricula, deciding on numbers and types of per-
sonnel to be trained, and evaluating the training activities. These func-
tions will be performed by a training division to be established as part of
POPCOM's reorganization which will consist of an Associate Director Training,
who will be assisted by training project officers for major activity areas
(e.g., medical and service-related, information, education, etc.). Training
assistants will be employed as the workload requires. Contractual and short-
term consultants will be utilized as needed for special assignments (details.
are included in the USAID agreement reproduced in Annex 2, Appendix I).
Regional Offices
5.07       The activities of the POPCOM have been centralized in Manila with
little visibility in the field. Under the reorganization already underway,
POPCOM will have 11 Regional Offices, each headed by a Regional POPCOM Re-
presentative with rank and status of Associate Director. Some of these
officers have already been appointed. They are multipurpose staff with a
suitable combination of university studies and administrative experience.
They have or will receive training in family planning and program management.
The functions of the regional POPCOM representatives are to help in the
development and implementation of the regional program, help solve field
problems, elicit participation from official and private sources for the
family planning effort and maintain program impetus (detailed duties and
responsibilities of the Regional Representatives are included the USAID agree-
ment reproduced in Annex 2, Appendix II).



- 16 -
Evaluatioa
5.08       The Government has created a Management Information System (MIS)
within the POPCOM's Planning Division, with UNFPA financing. During negotia-
etions the GOP gave assurances that it will continue to carry out the evaluation
of its family planning program through the new MIS and/or through any other
means and resources that may be found appropriate to cover the following
functions:
a.   Evaluation of program efforts or inputs (personnel-years,
visits, clinics, costs, etc.);
b.   Evaluation of intermediate results (number of acceptors,
continuing users, active clients, etc.);
c.   Evaluation of program efficiency (relation of intermediate
results to various physical or financial inputs; and
d.   Evaluation of effect on fertility decline.
5.09       Aside from the system of continuous data collection which is needed
for this program, periodic sample surveys will be required. Essential sur-
veys which will need to be undertaken include:
a.   Follow-up sample of program acceptors; and
b.   Attitude studies of family planning (through samples
among the general population).
5.10       The ultimate objective of the family planning program and the
project -  fertility decline -  can only be evaluated through accurate vital
statistics. The Dual Registration System already operating under the National
Census and Statistics Office is a good mechanism for obtaining vital statistics
on a continuous basis - especially age-specific fertility rates -- and should
receive support from the GOP, as required, to evolve into a permanent system.
B. Rural Health and Family Planning Service Component - Departments of
Health and of Social Welfare
5.11       The project will provide financing for strengthening and expanding
the system of Rural Health Units in order to implement new procedures for the
delivery of health and family planning services in small urban centers and
outlying rural areas.  This will include:
a.   Construction equipping and furnishing of 158 Type "A" and
47 Type "B" Rural Health Units (defined in paras 5.15 and
5.18), including two houses for the staff of each of 38
Type A units and one house each in all Type "B" units;



- 17 -
b.   Procurement of 205 jeeps, spare parts for existing and new
vehicles and vehicle maintenaace;
c.   Employment of about 2,400 additional midwives to serve as
midwife/community health workers in RHUs and Barrio Health
Stations (480 midwives per year are expected to be employed
during the 5-year project period) and;
d.   salaries for core staff in the DOR to organize implementation
of RHU procedures.
RiU Physical Facilities
5.12       only 510 of 1,454 RHUs for which information was available were
occupying a Government owned building suitable for their specific functions.
The remaining RHUs were housed in various locations such as municipal build-
ings, multipurpose halls, puericulture centers and rented private premises
(Annex 4, Table 2). Many of these facilities are in too poor condition to
provide sound clinical services to clients. The DOH has identified 313 RHUs
which need new buildings and 598 which would need rehabilitation and general
repairs (Annex 4, Table 3). After reviewing the available information regard-
ing population coverage, staffing patterns and expected RHU activities, the
Bank mission, working in consultation with the GOP, derived the following
criteria for project preparation:
a.   new RHU facilities would be provided through this project for
municipalities with 5,000 to 50,000 population by 1983 (this
group would constitute 85% of all municipalities by 1983);
b.   municipalities which already have a Government hospital or will
have a CHHC in the future (see para. 4.06 for plans of Medical
Care Commission) would not be eligible for a REU building under
the project; and
c.   the RHUs to be built through this project would be standardized
providing a type "A"' RHU in municipalities with 10,000 to 50,000
population, and a type "B" building for municipalities with 5,000
to 10,000 population (variation of the demand under type "A"
would be satisfied by varying the number of Barrio Health Stations,
rather than the size of the RHU).
5.13       During negotiations the GOP confirmed its intention to establish
RHU functions in the facilities mentioned under (b) above, in order to avoid
duplications between RHUs and other Government medical institutions. Also,
during negotiations the GOP agreed to undertake a survey of Barrio Health
Stations to obtain information about the physical facilities and availability
of resident staff and will prepare a plan for the rehabilitation and construc-
tion of Barrio Health Stations. This plan will be submitted to the Bank for
examination and comments within the first two years of the project execution
period.



- 18 -
5.14       The project will finance construction, furniture and equipment
for 158 buildings for type "A" RHUs which will be the center for outpatient
care for municipalities with 10,000-50,000 population. The proposed schedule
of accommodation for type "A" RHUs incluces consulting/examination rooms for
the doctor and the midwife, a treatment room, a recovery room with 2 beds,
a dental room, a multipurpose room for lectures and demonstrations for public
health and social welfare work, family planning, nutrition, etc. Supporting
services will include a laboratory for routine tests, a botica (a small
pharmacy) records, etc. Offices will be provided for public health work
and one office and storage area for social workers. In 38 locations where
it is difficult to attract and retain professional staff, 2 staff houses will
be built for type "A", RHUs.  The type "A" RHU will provide health
and family planning services and, in selected locations, will also be the
focus for social welfare work organized by the Department of Social Welfare;
it will be located in the "poblacion" (generally the largest barrio), and
will serve the immediate population of about 10,000-15,000; in addition, it
will support Barrio Health Stations which will be manned by a resident midwife/
community healthtfamily planning worker serving about 5,000 population (reorien-
tation of midwives is also a part of this project, para. 5.24).
5.15       No construction of Barrio Health Stations will be included in the
project; they will be built by the DOH or the municipality. The Government
plans to provide BHS in barrios which are within municipalities where new RHUs
will be built through the Bank project, so that the new service system can
operate effectively. (The combination of RHUs type "A" and satellite BHSs is
the essential basis for the new system to be started through this project.)
As part of the revised service procedures, the project will provide simple
radio/telephone equipment which will be the link between the base RHU and
the Barrio Health Stations.
5.16       An important aspect of the new rural health system will be the
employment of 5,000 additional midwives/community health/family planning work-
ers (salaries for 2,400 of them will be initially financed by Bank funds, on
a declining basis.  Para. 6.14 (c)).   During negotiations the Government agreed
to sanction annually about 480 midwife positions adequately distributed among
the regions, during the next five years. This scheme should be closely related
to any future system of Government-sponsored fellowships for midwives (para.
4.15).
-,.!i      The type "B" RHU has been planned to serve the needs of smaller
municipalities with 5-10,000 population. The project would finance 47
type "B" RHUs. The proposed schedule of accommodation for the type "B"
RHU reflects the lower demand for services in the smaller communities.
Accommodation includes a consultation examination room, a treatment room
and a multipurpose lecture/demonstration room. By definition this type
of RHU will be located in remote and sparsely populated areas; a staff
house will therefore be built.



- 19 -
5.18       The project provides funds for maintenance of the new vehicles
during a five-year period. Additionally, since the fleet of vehicles of the
DOH is in poor repair and transportation is essential for the rural health
program, including family planning activities, the project will finance spare
parts for 300 existing vehicles. This assistance will strengthen the present
vehicle maintenance system of the DOH, which is also receiving financial and
technical support from UNICEF. Repairs will be organized by the Regional
Health Offices in the DOH workshops or in private garages under contractual
arrangements. The number of vehicles needing repair was estimated through a
survey undertaken by the DOH in mid-1972, at the request of the Bank mission.
Ri-U Management and Clinic Procedures
5.19       An operational research team assisted by WHO experts is conducting
a series of studies on the rural health service system in the Province of
Rizal, to define the actual demand for health services and to ascertain how
public resources nave been used to serve the people in rural areas. These
studies were undertaken to develop alternatives for redistributing duties
among the health staff. The team produceda final report with recommendations,
along with a manual of procedures and training schemes for the workers at
various levels. The Health Planning Unit of the DOH is already developing
the rural health plan following those suggestions.
5.20       The project will provide the means to increase RHU efficiency
through buildings, equipment, additional staff and technical assistance.
To this end, the findings and recomiendations of the GOP/WHO Rizal operational
research team may be used as a basis for introducing improvements in the rural
health services (see Appendix 1, Annex 4 for redistribution of functions among
the health team members). During negotiations, the GOP confirmed its intention
to request each Regional Health Office to develop a rural health service scheme
within guidelines established by the DOH. Three to four index areas will be
selected for initial implementation. Testing and implementation of such
service schemes should be combined with the training program of the Regional
Training Centers, which will also be a part of the project. Financing for a
core staff at the Central level will be provided to promote and coordinate
these efforts, with the assistance of six man-months of advisory services on
health delivery services (these advisory services are included in Part D of
the project, para. 5.28, item b.i. and para. 5.32).
C. Regional Training Centers (RTCs)
5.21       The project will provide financing for facilities, equipment,
furniture and advisory services for the training program of the Department
of liealth, including:



- 20 -
a.   Construction of aniLu equipment and furniture for 11 Regional
Training Centers, for in-service health and family planning
training of Government staff. Each center will have, besides
teaching and administrative facilities (including audiovisual
and IEC equipment) a library and living accommodation for
trainees and staff, 3 minibuses and 3 jeeps (including spare
parts and vehicle maintenance);
b.   provision of additional materials and services for about 9
workshops for staff of the Regional Training Centers includ-
ing trips and travel per-diem (3 per year for about 22 trainers
each during 3 years);
c.   Technical advisory services for OHEPT on organization and
training methods (12 man-months) and for development
of the midwife/community health training programs for RTCs
(12 man-months); and,
d.   Fellowships for midwifery tutors and Public Health Nursing
supervisors in RHUs (33 one-year national fellowships).
5.22       The Department of Health conducts all of its health and family
planning in-service training activities through its regional training centers.
The Office of Health Education and Personnel Training (OHEPT) in the Depart-
ment of Health is responsible for special courses; the Regional centers
are directly under the supervision of the Regional Directors. Five regional
centers are functioning in Manila, Dagupan, Iloilo, Cebu and Davao. Recently,
two new centers opened at Naga and Zamboanga.
5.23       The project will provide new buildings for the 11 Regional Training
Centers, since none of the present facilities are suitable for the proper
fulfillment of the Centers' functions. Present teaching space consists of
provisional arrangements for the use of office space within the Regional
Health Offices. The DOH family planning training program has encountered
problems of inadequate space, lack of transportation for students to attend
field classes, and a scarcity of visual aids, contraceptive kits, books and
other teaching materials. None of the Centers has any provision for living
accommodations for trainees. Present living arrangements are highly inade-
quate and impose a burden and inconvenience on trainees.
5.24       A significant additional activity in the project-financed Training
Centers will be a three-month preservice course for midwives, which will re-
orient them to become community health workers in RHUs and resident staff in
Barrio Health Stations. Training loads will be considerable in the next five
years, with the preservice training of 5,000 additional midwives (2,400 through
the project). Also, midwives currently employed in the RHUs will have to under-
go this reorientation. The project will finance 12 man-months of technical
advisory services to assist the OHEPT and the RTCs in curriculum development
and planning of the preservice courses for midwives in community health/family
planning.



- 21 -
5.25       The project includes 33 one-year fellowships (three for each
Region) to be used during the first three years of the project to train
graduate nurses in Public Health and administration. This training will take
place in the University of the Philippines Institute of Public Health and other
national training institutions, starting in September 1974 and wiln be completed
within the first three years of the project. The nurses would either be al-
ready on the staff of the DOH or would be subsequently employed as trainers in
RTCs and as supervisors in the Rural Health Program.
5.26       Another priority activity in these centers will be training in
family planning for Government personnel (both health and other staff). The
present training program of the Department of Health has been substantially
assisted by the USAID and will continue to receive support from this source and
from the GOP. The project will provide 12 man-months of advisory services
to assist OHEPT and the RTCs in administration, teaching methods, curriculum
development and planning of courses.
5.27       The buildings for the RTCs will be designed on the basis of a
review of the proposed curriculum and number of course participants; space
utilization charts were prepared by the mission in consultation with the
DOli. Seven teaching spaces will be provided producing a use factor of 64%
of available time and an occupancy factor of 60-70%. Living accommodation
for staff and visiting lecturers will also be provided. About 20% of the
participants will have accommodations in the town. For teaching there will
be two lecture rooms with projection, four seminar rooms (one of which will
double as a demonstration room for family planning), one demonstration labora-
tory for public health work, a library, administrative offices and a conference
room.
D. Direct Project Assistance to the Department of Health
5.28       There are several project components designed to strengthen func-
tions of the Department of Health's capacity to undertake project coordination
and evaluation. They include:
a.   Salaries for core staff (to be disbursed by the Bank on a
declining basis - para. 6.14 (c) and equipment to undertake
additional services in Health Statistics in the Department
of Health;
b.   Technical advisory services for (i) new RHU procedures (6
man-months); (ii) logistics and supplies distribution (12 man-
months); and (iii) health statistics (6 man-months);
C.   Study tours for 3 senior DOH nurses; and
d.   Facilities evaluation study and provision for future
project preparation.



- 22 -
Record-Keeping, Statistics a1d Evaluation
5.29       The system of record-keeping and .3tatistics in RHUs is not pro-
viding regular and complete data for evaluating the activities of those units;
no reliable information is currently available on operations and vital
statistics. In 1971, a WHO consultant advised the Government on health
service records and reports, as part of a General Health Service Develop-
ment Project underway since 1969 in the Province of Rizal. The study revealed
that many of those forms were redundant or useless and recomuended their re-
placement by several newly designed form. An instruction manual for reporting
and for a new filing and record-keeping system for RHUs, and recommendations
for the reorganization of the data transmittal system were also prepared.
.30        This system is not yet operating nationally; this would require
organization of a new central health statistics unit and enough manpower for
processing, analyzing and instructing the RHU and Provincial personnel on the
new procedures for record-keeping, filing and data transmittal. Furthermore,
the present system of consolidating the information from individual records
at several administrative levels (i.e. REHU, Municipal, Provincial and Regional
levels) before the information reaches the national office, has considerable
disadvantages.
5.31       Through the present project, a reorganized office of health
statistics and evaluation system will be set up in the DOH; salaries for core
staff at the central level and in the regions will be financed on a declining
basis to assist in the development of an improved statistical system that
would be the basis for RHU performance evaluation, central data analysis,
production of periodic health statistics reports and a feedback system to
the RHUs, with comparative performance figures. The project will also provide
six man-months of technical assistance to the DOH's reorganized health statistics
office.
Other Technical Advisory Services
5.32       The project also includes an adviser for one year to develop uniform
inventories for supplies and medications for RHUs. The adviser would recommend
arrangements for procurement, location of storage points and method and fre-
quency of distribution. Six months of advisory services on health delivery for
RIU new procedures are also included for Bank financing through the project
1(6ee also para. 5.20).
5.33       As part of the efforts to strengthen the central administration of
the family planning program and the DOlt training programs three fellowships
for two, three and five months respectively will be financed for overseas
courses for the following nurse/midwives positions at the central level:
(a) DOH Nursing Program Supervisor for MCH; (b) Nurse Coordinator of the Na-
tional Family Planning Office and (c) the Nurse Training Coordinator.



- 23 -
Facilities Evaluation Study
5.34       This project will finance an evaluation study of project facilities
and programss to be initiated by July 1976, which would also serve as a basis
for the design of facilities needed for further expansion of the system. The
main objective of this evaluation will be to relate capital and operating
costs to (a) staffing patterns and worktime, (b) facilities used for various
functions, and (c) the amount of services delivered. The terms of reference
for this study are given in Annex 7.
VI.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost
6.01       Of the total project costs of P339 million (US$50 million),
$US21.5 million is for the construction and equipping of physical faci-
lities, US$1.4 million is for vehicles, US$0.6 million for technical
assistance and studies, US$0.7 million for special equipment, and US$7.4
million for incremental recurrent costs, US$2.0 million for physical con-
gencies and US$16.4 million for price escalation.
6.02       Detailed project costs, which are exclusive of taxes, are shown
in Annexes 8 and 9 and summarized in the following tables.
6.03       The estimates of construction cost have been based on a cost
analysis prepared (as of mid-1973) by the private sector and reviewed by the
Department of Public Works. A 15% allowance has been made for provincial
variations in construction cost and also for the higher cost of construction
in especially remote areas (see Annex 8). A construction contingency of 10%
have been allowed to cover unexpected hazards during the construction period.
The cost has been updated to June, 1974 mainly on the basis of a recent NEDA
issue of Economic Indicators, and future escalation has been estimated accord-
ingly to 16% for construction during the second half of 1974, 19% during 1975
and 12% per annum thereafter.   Annual price escalation for non-construction
items was estimated as follows: for vehicles and special equipment, 15% the
first year, 12% the second year and 9% thereafter; for other non-construction
costs, 9% per year for the first 3 years and 5% thereafter per year during
the 5-year period.



-24-
PHILIPPINES
Foreign
A.  PROJECT COST BY TYPE                     PhiliDpine P                      USS             Exchange
OF EXPENDITURE                      Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    ComDonent
I. Civil Works
A. Siteworks & Construction
l, RHU Type 'A'    (158)        46.33    29.61  75.94        6.83     4.37  11.20
2. Housing          ( 38)        2.07      1.32   3.39       0.30     0.20   0.50
3. RHU Type 'B'    ( 47)         6.53      4.18  10.71       0.97     0.61   1.58
4. Regional Training Centers   18.36    11.74  30.10         2.71     1.73   4.44
Subtotal                   73.29    46.85 120.14       10.81     6.91  17.72        39
B. Fees & Supervision               12.88     -     12.88       1.90      -      1.90         -
C. Furniture & Equipment             7.80     5.02  12.82       1.15      0.74   1.89        39
II. Other Proiect Costs
D. Special Equipment                 -        4.75   4.75       -        0.70   0.70        100
E. Vehicles & Spare Parts           7.80      1.36   9.16       1.15     0.20   1.35         15
F. Technical Assistance
1. Advisors                      -         1.29  .1.29       -        0.19   0.19
2. Fellowships                   0.27      0.34   0.61       0.04     0.05   0.09
3. Special Studies               0.81      1.56   2.37       0.12     0.23   0.35
Subtotal                    1.08      3.19   4.27       0.16     0.47   0.63        75
G. Incremental Recurrent Costs
1. Salary Support               43.39      -     43.39       6.40     -       6.40
2. Workshops & Trips             0.20      0.27   0.47       0.03     0.04   0.07
3. Operating Cost                6.37      -      6.37       0.94     -       0.94
Subtotal                   49.96     0.27  50.23       7.37      0.04   7.41         0.5
H. Project Construction Unit        0.34      -      0.34       0.05      -      0.05         -
III. Contingencies
A. Physical                          8.13     5.16  13.29       1.20      0.76   1.96
B. Price
1. Civil Works                  59.12    35.12  94.24        8.72     5.18  13.90
2. Non-Construction             14.24       2.64  16.88      2.10     0.39   2.49
Subtotal                     81.49    42.92 124.41       12.02     6.33  18.35.       35
TOT,%L PROJECT COSTS               234.64   104.36 339.00      34,61    15.39  50.00        31
B. PROJECT COST BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY                                                         % of Total
Program Administration                 2.37     0.95   3.32       0.35      0.14   0.49        1
Services                             181.37    72.35 253.72      26.75    10.67  37.42        75
Training                              44.61    27.05  71.66       6.58      3.99  10.57       21
Health Statistics                      2.24     0.95   3.19       0.33      0.14   0.47         -
Evaluatior. & Research                 1.22     2.24   3.46       0.18      0.33   0.51        1
IEC                                    2.44     0.82   3.26       0.36      0.12   0.48        1
Project Construction Unit              0.39     -      0.39       0.06      -      0.06        -
TOTAL                             234.64   104.36 339.00       34.61    15.39  50.00       100



- 25 -
6.04       The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$15.4 million,
which represents 31% of total project costs. It has been calculated as
39% of civil works, 58% of the cost of furniture and equipment, 26% of the
cost of vehicles, and 75% of the cost of technical assistance and studies.
B.    Proposed Financing
6.05       The project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$25.0 million
equivalent (50%) a Government contribution of US$24.4 equivalent (48.0%);
the UNFPA will provide US$0.43 million (1.0%) and the USAID, US$0.51 million
(1%).     The Bank loan will cover 50% of the total project costs, including
the foreign exchange component of US$15.3 million and local costs amounting to
US$9.7 million equivalent. This Bank loan will provide some local currency
financing to assist the Government in extending family planning services to
the large rural sector of the population. The loan would have a term of 25
years, including a five-year period of grace. Retroactive financing for
US$350,000 from May 1, 1974 will be provided to cover the salaries of the
project construction unit and consultants' fees.
C. Procurement
6.06       All contracts over US$70,000 equivalent for civil works, furniture,
equipment, vehicles and spare parts required for the project will be awarded
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the "Guidelines of Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" (October
1972). To the extent practicable, orders for civil works, and for furniture
and equipment shall be grouped in lots of not less than US$70,000 equivalent.
Contractors for civil works will be prequalified and notices of invitation
will be inserted in national newspapers and circulated to the embassies of
member countries represented in the Philippines. To make allowance for
standardization and spare parts required for existing equipment, contracts
not exceeding US$70,000 and in aggregate not exceeding about US$200,000
may be procured on a competitive basis in accordance with the normal pro-
curement procedures of the Borrower. Domestic manufacturers of furniture,
equipment and vehicles will be accorded a margin of preference equal to 15%
of the c.i.f. costs of competing imports.
6.07       The Borrower will prepare and submit to the Bank for comment,
promptly upon their preparation, the preliminary architectural drawings and
the outline of the specifications for the buildings and facilities included
in the project.



- 26 -
D. Implementation
6.08       The GOP will designate its Commission on Population to coordinate
the work, in respect of the project, of the Government agencies participating
in its execution. A Project Construction Unit (PCU) will be established with-
in the Department of Health, headed by a Director. If he were already a
senior official in the Department of Health, he could serve on a part-time
basis. The unit would also include a full-time Project Architect, (duties
and responsibilities included in Annex 8) and supporting staff such as a
project accountant and an equipment specialist, who would be seconded from
other Government offices. Additional staff (such as personnel from the
Department of Public Works, Transport and Communications to help in site
selection) could be borrowed from other Government Departments as required.
The GOP will appoint after consultation with the Bank qualified and experienced
persons to serve as Director and as Project Architect of the Project Construc-
tion Unit. These appointments will be conditions of loan effectiveness.
6.09       In addition, the GOP will employ a firm of executive architects
and/or a firm of construction management consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and condition of employment will be satisfactory to the
Bank. (Duties and responsibilities included in Annex 8.) The major problems
anticipated in the implementation phase lie in management cost control and
maintaining progress of construction in the rural areas and it will not be
necessary to retain consultants specializing in the design of health facili-
ties. Construction management consultants are available in the Philippines
and have been employed in this capacity for major projects. The executive
architects will be required to retain the services of construction management
consultants if both architectural and management services cannot be supplied
by a single firm. Resident Clerks of Works will be appointed to provide
day-to-day supervision of construction while the executive architect will
provide the customary periodic inspection of work in progress.
E. Sites
6.10       Site selection criteria were prepared by the, August, 1973 mission to
identify and acquire actual sites. A list of locations is included in Annex 8.
Government land is available in most rural areas and no special difficulties
in transfer are foreseen. The DOH began selecting and acquiring sites after
the August 1973 mission, and has furnished the Bank, at the time of negotiations,
a list of the sites already acquired, as well as a timetable for the acquisition
of the remaining sites.



- 27 -
6.11       The RHUs which make up the Bank project were drawn from a national
list: of facilities requiring replacement on the grounds that they were either
dilapidated or housed in buildings such as municipal halls (owned by other
agencies). The criteria for selection were agreed during appraisal. Speci-
fically included are the great majority of rural municipalities which fall
firstly in the 10-50,000 population bracket and secondly, in the 5-10,000
bracket.
6.12       Excluded are municipalities with population less than 5,000 and
those where the population will exceed 50,000 by 1983, becoming thereby
"urban" rather than "rural." For those municipalities DOH is developing
health delivery programs outside the Bank project. Also excluded, on
grounds of duplication of service, are municipalities where there are exist-
ing or proposed Government Hospitals, Emergency Hospitals or Comunity
Uospitals and Health Centers (detailed criteria are described in Annex 4,
para. 14).
6.13       Sites for the Regional Training Centers will generally be within
the compound of Regional or Provincial Hospitals; this relationship will
permit easy access to clinical demonstration material and supporting services
such as food supply and laundry. Similarly, clinicians will be well placed
to contribute to the teaching program.
F. Disbursements
6.14       The loan would be disbursed to meet 50% of total project cost.
However by disbursement categories disbursable amounts would be:
(a)  100% of total expenditures for technical assistance (both
local and foreign) and of the c.i.f. cost of imported
vehicles, furniture and equipment or the ex factory cost
of domestically produced vehicles and furniture and equip-
ment;
(b)  39% of total expenditures for civil works and recurrent expendi-
tures, estimated to make the total loan equivalent to 50% of
total project costs; and
(c)  On an annual basis, 90, 70, 50, 30 and 30% will be applied
to annual incremental recurrent costs incurred in project
years 1 through 5 respectively, so that the loan would
finance 39% of such total costs.
6.15       Retroactive financing for US$350,000 is provided from May 1, 1974,
for preliminary engineering and architectural work and to set up the Project
Construction Unit. The Commission on audit of the GOP will audit the accounts
and financial statements of the DOH related to the project, at least annually
and will furnish to the Bank certified copies of such statements no later than
six months following close of fiscal year. Undisbursed funds would be avail-
able for cancellation. A disbursement schedule is included as Annex 10.



- 28 -
VII.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
7.01     The national population program is designed to reduce the total
fertility rate by about 25% of the present level -- from 6.4 in 1970 to
4.8 in the year 2000. Over 15 million births would be averted during that
period as a result of the program. Family planning practice is also ex-
pected to increase outside the program, as a result of improvements in
socio-economic conditions and independently of program efforts. If this
effect is also included, a total of 25 million births are estimated to be
averted from 1970 to the year 2000. Total fertility would then decline from
6.4 to 3.8 and total population would be close to 79 million by the year 2000,
almost double the current population, but some 23 million lower than the 102
million persons which would result if fertility remained constant;  and the
population growth rate would be 2% per annum in the year 2000 instead of the
current 3%.
7.02     The project is estimated to contribute directly to at least one
sixth of the projected fertility decline of the national program -- by
averting 2.5 million births between 1979 and the year 2000. This is the
direct effect of the project resulting from bringing family planning ser-
vices to the rural population, whose participation is essential to achieve
such a fertility decline. The new RHUs, the network of Barrio Health
Stations and the additional midwives will provide services to at least 7.8
million more people by 1979 than at present (or 1.6 million more women in
the reproductive ages).
7.03     Other important, but non-quantifiable benefits can also be expected
from the project. These result from information-education and communication
activities which are expected to increase the demand for family planning
services, training of family planning personnel at the regional level, tech-
nical assistance for training and communication activities, continuing
evaluation of the program, transportation, etc.   In summary, all these ele-
ments of institutional development for the POPCOM and the DOH may well be as
important in improving program effectiveness and reducing population growth
as is the direct effect of the project's physical facilities.
7.04     The demographic effect of the project would have important social
and economic implications. A smaller number of children in the individual
household means that more resources would be available for consumption and/or
private savings. Living standards of the population would improve meaning
more food and better nutrition for each family member, better maternal health
and child care, improved opportunities for education, etc. The poorer families
of the rural population are expected to be the main beneficiaries of this
project.
7.05     Over the long run, a slower rate of population growth would reduce
the rate of increase of the labor force. The rate of urban unemployment in
the Philippines is over 12% and underemployment is known to be prevalent among
the labor force. A smaller number of births would thus reduce the pressure
on the labor market and, ceteris paribus, unemployment.



- 29 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached between the Government
of the Philippines and the Bank on the following points:
(a) The GOP will sanction new positions for midwives/community
health workers to be resident staff in Barrio Health Stations
and RHUs, at the rate of 480 positions per year to complete
a total of 2,400 new posts in five years, beginning in
FY 1974/75 (para. 4.16 and 5.16);
(b) The GOP will cause the Regional Health Officesto select
33 graduate nurses who will undergo one-year training in
Public Health, administration and other related fields,
starting in September 1974, with fellowships financed
through this project; this training will be completed
by 1976. The GOP will sanction positions as required,
to employ these trainees as tutors in the Regional
Training Centers and as Supervisors in the rural health
program (para. 5.25);
(c) The GOP will continue to carry out an evaluation of
its family planning program under terms of reference
which shall include those set forth in paras. 5.08 - 5.10.
(d) The Bank will approve the qualifications, duties and
responsibilities of the Director of the Construction
Unit and the Project Architect and their appointments
will be made in consultation with the Bank. The appoint-
ments of all advisors to be used in the project over
continued periods exceeding five months will also be
made in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.08);
(e) The GOP will cause, no later than December 31, 1974, the
POPCOM, the Board of Midwifery, the Department of Health
and the Department of Education to form a special commit-
tee to review policy regarding training of midwives
(both by Government and private schools) with special
attention to matters referred to in para. 4.14 with a
view to producing recommendations within the first two
years of the project, which will be submitted to the
Bank for comments, together with an implementation plan;
(f) The Department of Health will urLdertake a survey of
Barrio Health Stations to obtain information about physical
facilities and availability of resident staff and will pre-
pare a plan which will include rehabilitation of Barrio
Health Stations;such plan will be submitted to the Bank
for examination and comments within the first two years
of the project period (para. 4.03 and 5.15);



- 30 -
(g) Starting in July 1976, the GOP shall cause a study to be
undertaken on cost, effectiveness and utilization of
project facilities under terms of reference submitted
to the Bank for consultation and comments; consultants
for this study will be appointed in consultation with
the Bank; the study will be used as a basis for formula-
tion of subsequent project activities (para. 5.34); and
(h) All sites for facilities to be built through this project
should be acquired by the GOP promptly, as required to
keep up with the schedule for civil works.
8.02      Also as recorded in minutes of negotiations, the Government confirmed
that it intends to undertake the actions described in: (a) para. 4.15 Govern-
ment Scholarship Plan for midwives, (b) para. 5.20 on testing and implement-
ation of new service procedures in RHUs by Regional Offices; (c) para. 4.06
and 5.13 on RHUs and family planning in Medical Care Commission Hospitals;
and (d) para. 5.14 on participation of social workers in the family planning
actitivities of RHUs.
8.03      The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) the establishment of the Project Construction Unit
(para. 6.08); and
(b) the appointments of the head of the Project Construction
Unit and the Project Architect after consultation with
the Bank (para. 6.08).



ANNEX 1
DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
Contents                         Page Nlo.
A.   Basic Demographic Data ..............             1
Censuses        ............................     1
Vital Registration ..................            1
Surveys ..................... .      0.....      1
Demographic Research Facilities .....            2
B.   Country's Demographic Background *...             2
Introduction ........*.** **.** *...   * *.      2
Population Projections ..............            5
Education .. ..... ,......0.*...                 6
Employment ..........................            7
C.   Implications of Population Trends for
Program Targets ........ . . . . . . . . .  .......  8






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1S
DEMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
A. Basic Demographic Data
1.        Birth and death registration in the Philippines is still deficient
in spite of Government efforts to improve the vital registration system.
For instance, recent publications of the Department of Health indicate a birth
rate of 27 per 1000 for 1968, which differs very markedly from fertility indi-
cators derived from reliable analyses of the population's age structure obtained
from the censuses and national surveys. Estimates based on the 1970 census,
for instance, point to a birth rate of 40 per 1000 for the period 1960-70.
Analysis of the present fertility situation as well as past trends are very
limited due to the absence of reliable registered data. Current knowledge of
the fertility levels in the Philippines is mainly contained in studies produced
by the University of the Philippines Population Institute sometimes in corpera-
tion with other Universities.l/
Censuses
2.        The last two censuses in the Philippines were taken on February 15,
1960 and on May 6, 1970, in compliance with the United Nations expressed ob-
jective of carrying out decenial censuses. The 1970 census is the sixth pop-
ulation count undertaken during this century since 1903. Analysis of census
data has become an important tool to ascertain mortality and fertility levels
in countries with poor vital statistics. It is therefore highly desirable
that especial attention be given in the Philippines to census analysis, at
least with reference to the 1970 census; unfortunately, individual record
files for earlier censuses have been destroyed, thus ruling out any thorough
analysis of past fertility and mortality.
Vital Registration
3.        As mentioned above, the vital registration system in the Philippines
is seriously deficient, with only between 60 to 70 percent of births and deaths
being registered. Recently, a Dual Registration System has been initiated
under which the existing registration system is continued and at the same time
a Periodic Household Enumeration is undertaken on a sampling basis. This new
system encountered some initial difficulties that have now reportedly been
resolved; next year it should be possible to obtain fairly accurate vital rates
from this source.
Surveys
4.        National Demographic Surveys (NDS) are sample surveys of households
carried out every five years. One such survey carried out in 1973. Earlier
NDS were undertaken in 1958, 1963, and 1968. These surveys have supplied the
only direct information on marital age-specific fertility rates.



A\NNEX 1
Page 2 of 18
Demographic Research Facilities
5.        There are several institutions in the Philippines carrying out re-
search in Demography. The University of the Philippines Population Institute
in Manila, the University of San Carlos in Cebu City and the Xavier University
in Cagayan de Oro are among the institutions working in this field. The
Bureau of the Census is planning to form a research team mainly to analyze
the information contained in the 1970 census tapes.
6.        The POPCOM4 has reorganized its executive office and is developing
(with UNFPA financing) Management Information System within its new Planning
Division following recommendations to plan research needs, specify research
projects and support research relevant to program efforts.
7.        Several foreign researchers are working in demography in the Philip-
pines. Although Filippino nationals have been trained in demography both in
the country and abroad in the last ten years, only a few reamin in the national
universities, and those few are reportedly very much in demand form other
agencies for part time work or have very heavy teaching schedules. All this
prevents them from devoting adequate time to research. Low salaries have been
most often mentioned as the inhibiting factor in attracting capable nationals
into demographic research. The situation as stated above does not call for
the creation of new demographic research insitutions, but rather for improving
staff employment conditions in the existing universities. The expanded
division of POPCOM mentioned above will play an important role in ascertain-
ing research requirements and financially supporting those institutions to
allow them to build up adequate research capacity.
B. Country's Demographic Background
Introduction
8.        The population of the Philippines has grown from 7.6 million in the
first census taken in this century (1903), to almost 37 million in 1970.
Population growth accelerated considerably after the World War II period.
'Wh1ile it had taken 33 years for the population to double between 1963 and
1930, the doubling period prior to the 1970 census was only 24 years. Faster
growth has been a result of a decline in mortality, brought about by improve-
ments in public health, medicine and nutrition, combined with persistent high
fertility. International migration has not been numerically significant to
influence population growth. The average annual rate of growth of the popula-
tion in the decade 1960-70 was three percent, placing the country's popula-
tion among the fastest growing in the world. Estimates for the same period
indicate a birth rate of 42 per 100.0, a death rate of 12 per 1000 and a total
fertility rate of 6.4 per woman 15-49 years of age.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 18
9.        A recent fertility analysis 1/ based on data from the National Demo-
graphic Surveys of 1958, 1963 and 1968 throws some light into the fertility
changes experienced by the population during that period. However, since only
information on ever married women was provided by those surveys, the analysis
is limited to that group. The rates presented there were below the actual
overall fertility rates due to the exclusion of all premarital births and
births to never-married women. Discrepancies are greatest for the younger
age groups, where most extra marital births tend to occur. The following
age-specific marital live birth rates are presented in Flieger's paper:
Age at                          Period
Childbirth        1953-58         1958-63                 1963-68
Actual Age-Specific Rates
15-19              86             60                       26
20-24             263             240                     186
25-29             312            301                      303
30-34             278             290                     262
35-39             215            208                      229
40-44              92             1C04                    112
45-49              23              2.5                     20
TFR             6.35            6.14                    5.69
Rates Standardized on Proportion of Women Married
15-19              46             60                       90
20-24             229            240                      290
25-29             290            301                      339
30-34             274            290                      276
35-39             215             208                     231
40-44              91            104                      110
45-49              23              25                      20
TFR             5.84            6.14                    6.77
10.       Although the direct comparison of total fertility rates of ever-
married women would seem to indicate a decline in fertility, once these rates
are adjusted for changes in age distribution of married women, with 1958-63
as standard population, the standardized rates show an opposite trend with a
10% increase in total fertility. As the author indicates "there were fewer
married women in the younger childbearing ages in the mid-sixties than five
years earlier, but these young women who were married had more children in
early years of marriage than their predecesors."
11.       The same paper analyzes cohort fertility for those women in the
sample surveys and the conclusion is drawn that "today, as three or more
decades ago, childbearing in the Philippines starts early and extends over



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 18
the entire reproductive life span ow women. In short, traditional patterns
prevail." It is further concluded that whatever fertility decline was taking
place (before 1970) would appear to represent nothing more than elimination
of some of the excess fertility which was a consequence of the post-war high
fertility level.
12.       Be regions, the total fertility rate varies from more than seven in
North Mindaao and Bicol, to 4.5 in Manila, the Ilocos Region and South Western
Mindanao and Sulu. According to Flieget, present regional differentials
(excluding the Ilocos and Southern Mindanao) are largely due to variations in
age at first marriage and post-war developments such as migration and indus-
trialization. The following total marital fertility rates by period and
Region were calculated on the basis of data from the National Demographic
Surveys:
Percent
Period                      Changes
Region            1953-58   1958-63    1963-68              1953-68
Actual Rates
All Regions                6.35       6.14       5.69               -10.4
Greater Manila             5.20       4.92       4.52              -13.1
Ilocos and Mt. Provinces  4.71        4.23       4.59              - 2.5
Cagavan Valley             8.07       6.78       6.10              -24.4
Central Luzon              6.93       6.65       6.09              -12.1
Southern Luzon             6.27       5.80       5.28              -15.8
Bicol                      7.14       7.38       7.13              - 0.1
Western Visayas            6.13       6.22       6.08               - 0.2
Eastern Visayas            6.25       6.23       5.97              - 4.5
- Northeastern Mindanao      6.97       7.31       7.48              + 7.3
Southwestern Mindanao      6.32       5.73       4.56              -27.8
Standardized Rates *
All Regions                6.35       6.70       7.30              +15.0
Greater Manila             5.20       5.70       6.52              +25.4
Ilocos and Mt. Provinces  4.71        5.11       6.82              +44.8
Cagayan Valley             8.07       8.03       8.08                0.0
Central Luzon              6.93       7.34       8.39              +21.1
Southern Luzon             6.27       6.32       6.61              + 5.4
Bicol                      7.14       7.95       8.95              +25.4
Western Visayas            6.13       6.79       8.29              +35.2
Eastern Visayas            6.25       6.79       7.52              +20.3
Northeastern Mindanao      6.97       7.80       9.13              +31.0
Southwestern Mindanao      6.32       6.07       6.04              - 4.4
*    Standardized by Age and Marital Composition.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 18
13.       It was found in this study that the regions which preserved their
agricultural economic base also preserve high fertility (Central Luzon and
Bicol) regardless of development. Only metropolitan Manila and Southern Luzon
showed slight indications of fertility decline, which may be indicative of an
inverse relation between industrialization and fertility.
14.       These data would seem to indicate that voluntary birth limitation
is not significantly practiced among couples and this would seem to be espe-
cially the case in areas outside the industrialized cities, where about 70
percent of the population lives.
15.       In spite of the decline in the crtde birth rate, high infant
mortality (increasingly being considered as a probable factor acting against
the desire for family limitation) is still a serious problem. The infant
mortality rate estimated from the 1970 census was almost 80 per 1000 live
births, or at least four times as high as in developed countries and at least
double that of other developing countries of that region.
Population Projections
16.       Two population projections were prepared for this report to illus-
trate the effect of alternative trends of fertility and mortality in the next
three decades. They are presented in Table 1, together with the corresponding
birth, death, natural increase and infant mortality rates. The following as-
sumptions of fertility were built into the projections:
Projection A: Almost constant high fertility during the period; and
Projection B: Moderately rapid decline in age-specific fertility
rates, to 80% of the 1970 values by 1975 and to
60% by the year 2000.
17.       In both projections, life expectancy at birth is assumed to increase
from 56 and 60 for males and females in 1970, to 65 and 69, respectively in the
year 2000. Projection A is used here as a "maximum"' level of reference
against which the efforts that would be required in terms of family size
limitation will be measured. Projection B reflects up to 1975, the goals stated
by the Government, which consist of decreasing the average rate of population
growth to 2.5% by that year. A moderately rapid fertility decline is assumed
thereafter, which would result in a total fertility rate of 3.8 children per
woman in the year 2000, compared to 6.4 in 1970.
18.       These estimates provide only a range or possibilities, yet they
serve to underline the serious implications of delays in reducing fertility.
The assumption of constant fertility up to the year 2000 indicates an upper
limit of almost 102 million persons in that year. The alternative popula-
tion trend would be accomplished if couples practiced family limitation, both
using the program's services and independent of it, to the extent of omitting



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 18
over 25 million births in the next 26 years. Of this number, about 900,000
births would be omitted from 1987 on as a result of declining fertility trends
i.n previous years and a consequent decline in the number of women entering into
reproductive ages from 1987 on. This magnitude of birth omission would only
be possible if efforts through the family planning program are successful and
at the same time, fairly basic attitude changes toward procreation take place
fairly rapidly. Under those circumstances, the total population in the year
2000 would reach nearly 79 million, which is almost double the number currently
inhabiting the country, but some 23 million lower than the upper limit mentioned
earlier.
19.       The alternative projections have substantial implications for sectors
such as education and health and for other socio-economic aspects.
Education
20.       The country has achieved a literacy rate which is among the highest
in South Asia. About 83% of the population 10 years and over is considered
literate. Elementary education is offered free to all children and is mainly
financed by the Government. For the secondary level (4 years' duration)
enrollment reached 71 percent of the group 13-17 years in 1970. Higher educa-
tion institutions have enrollment ratios second only to those in Canada and
United States, although in the Philippines higher education is shorter in dura-
tion and therefore ratios are not strictly comparable. However, according to
a Bank education appraisal mission which was in the field in 1971, these quan-
titative achievements have not been matched by qualitative accomplishments.
The report adds that the system has become too large for the country to support
and faces increasing pressures resulting from population growth.
21.       The elementary school age population (6-12 years) which in 1971 was
3.7 million would almost double by the year 2000, even if projection B, which
implies moderately fast fertility decline, is achieved. That group could reach
as high as 9.8 million children in 2000 under a constant fertility trend. The
implications of the alternative population projections for secondary school
and college resources are shown below, together with the trends for the elemen-
tary school age population:
Population in Thousands
Elementary               Secondary             College
6-12 years             13-16 years           17-20 years
A           B            A          B          A          B
Year     No.      Z*   No.    %Z NO.    %* No.    %*  No-. *  No.           %*
1971    3,730        3,730        1,683       1,683      1,505      1,505
1980    4,823    30  4,664   25  2,463  46  2,463  46  2,047  36 2,047  36
1985    5,293    42  4,522   21  2,724  62  2,686  60  2,548  69 2,446  63
1990    6,376    71  4,996   34  3,063  82  2,530  31  2,693  79 2,611  73
1995    8,121   118  5,696   53  3,717 121  2,804  67  3,169 111 2,540  69
2000    9,789   162  6,480   74  4,524 169  3,191  90  3,487 156 2,864  90
*    Percent increase



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 18
22.       In order to keep providing free elementary education to almost all
children between 6 and 12 years, by 1980, the capacity of the educational
system (teachers, administrative staff and buildings and equipment) would
need expansion to accommodate 25 to 30% more students. From that point in
time on, the expansion needed for the educational system would differ consid-
erably depending on whether the population's fertility is declining or not.
For instance, by 1990 the group 6-12 years would increase by 34% or 71% de-
pending on whether fertility remains constant or declines according to pro-
jection B. The secondary school group (13-16 years) would be 31% or 82% larger
than in 1971, also depending on the fertility trends. For the college-age
group (17-20) which is also the group seeking entrance to the labor force,
the effect of a decline in fertility would be noticeable only after 1990 and
the differences resulting from alternative fertility trends (constant or de-
clining) would be dramatic by 1995 when an increase of 69% with respect to
1971 could be expected if fertility declines, compared to a doubling of this
group if fertility remains constant.
Employment
23.       During the 1960's the labor force in the Philippines grew at an
average annual rate of 2.7%. Over the same period the population of working
age grew by 3.4%, indicating a rather pronounced decline in the participation
rate. The main reason for this is the increased rate of school enrollment.
During the 1970's the increase in the population of working age will slow
down somewhat, to about 3.1%. Due to the fact that the school enrollment
rate will continue to increase, although at a slower pace than in the 1960's,
the increase in the labor force over the 1970's is supposed to remain about
the same, i.e., 2.7% per annum. A serious problem will arise in the 1980's,
when the school enrollment ratio will not increase any further, and the growth
in the labor force will start to reflect the full impact of the growth in
the population of working age. A sharp increase in the rate of growth of the
labor force during this and the following decades can only be prevented by
increasing the effort in the area of family planning as quickly as possible.
24.       The growth in employment during the previous decade at 2.5 percent
per annum has not been able to keep pace with the rate of increase in the
labor force, even though this last one was moderated by the increase in the
school enrollment ratio. It may be assumed that the increase in the school
enrollment ratio was partially a consequence of this discrepancy, as the
supply pressures in the labor market induced people to extend the length of
their education. A sectoral breakdown of the growth in employment, plus the
prospects for its growth during the present decade, are given below:



ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 18
Labor Force and Employment-
Percentage of
Annual Growth         Labor Force
1960-70     1970-80  1960  1970  1980
Labor Force                          2.7          2.7      100   100   100
Employment                           2.5          2.5       94    92    92
Agriculture                        1.2          1.0       58    50    42
Mining and Manufacturing           2.3          3.0       12    12    11
Services                           5.1          4.8       24    31    39
Unemployment                         5.0          2.7        6     8      8
/1   Calculation from rounded figures.
25.       Especially alarming is the slow growth in employment in the sector
of mining and manufacturing. The employment in the mining sector grew by over
6% during the 1960's, but this sector is still rather small, employing
less than 4% of the labor force working in both sectors combined. The
employment in the manufacturing sector, which in a developing country should
ideally grow considerably above average in order to cope with the slow growth
in agricultural employment, is expected to grow only slightly faster in the
1970's, as much of the expected growth in real output can be achieved by using
the present excess capacity in the manufacturing sector. Agriculture probably
will not be able to absorb labor at an average rate of more than around 70,000
workers per annum, indicating a 1% growth in agricultural employment.
Employment growth in the service sector, finally, is expected to drop below
5%, thus leading to a forecast of the growth in total employment during
the 1970's of 2.5%. This means that unemployment will continue to
increase.
26.       For the 1980's, prospects are still more dim due to two factors.
In the first place, as explained, the labor force will start to grow at a
higher rate. In the second place, a further drop in the rate of growth of
agricultural employment is expected.
C. Implications of Population Trends for Program Targets
27.       As pointed out in para 18, if the population of the Philippines
were to follow a trend closer to projection B, about 25 million births would
have to be omitted in the next 27 years. This estimate of birth omission was
calculated as a difference between "maximum" fertility and an assumed reason-
able declining fertility trend. These calculations are presented in Tables 2
through 6. As indicated in Table 2, in order to accomplish the fertility re-
duction illustrated by projection B, the number of continuous contraceptors



ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 18
per year 1/ would have to increase from 19% of all married women in 1974 to
36% in 1985. Of this number, about 50-60% would be using the services of the
program. Tables 3 and 4 present the detailed calculations of continuous
contraceptors from 1974 to 1985.
23.       The level of clinic activity in family planning has been estimated
assuming that a proportion of contraceptive users varying from 40% in 1974 to
50% in 1991 and subsequent years will be practicing family planning effectively
without using the program services, i.e., will be buying contraceptives through
commercial outlets and consulting private physicians. This is a reasonable
assumption taking into account that in 1971/72 approximately 30% of the con-
traceptive pills used were sold through commercial channels 2/. On the basis
of this assumption, it is shown in Table 5 that in 1974 the national family
planning program would need to recruit 528,000 new acceptors. During the
years between 1975 and 1980 the annual recruitment would have to increase
from 681,000 to 715,600 and by 1985 it should reach to 1 million (12% of all
married women). Estimation of the recruitment level to achieve projection B
indicates that by the end of the century the program would be recruiting
1.4 million acceptors per year. However, these estimates of new acceptors
are based on certain conservative assumptiohs of continuation rates for women
already in the program (see footnote 3, Tab:.e 2), If in the future these
continuation rates could be improved, the implication would be a need for less
new acceptors per year.
29.       In 1975, when according to these estimates 16% of all married
women in the Philippines would need to be practicing effective contraception
throughout the year, program clinics should be prepared to service 1,185,700
clients and to recruit 681,800 new acceptors. Unless there are substantial
changes in the mixture of methods, the level of clinic work would be at 2.3
million by 1985.
30.       In the short run (say about 2 to 3 years) there is a fair chance
that the target numbers for the program, outlined in Tables 5 and 6, may be
achieved with reasonably moderate strengthening in the organization, staffing
and facilities of the family planning delivery system, face-to-face motivation
and education and communications activities. However, the long-term capacity
needs of the program to reach clients and to render clinic services covering
the entire country should be a matter of concern which requires serious plan-
ning. Careful study of geographical distribution of service facilities will
have to be complemented by imaginative and effective approaches to increase
the adoption of contraceptives by increasingly larger numbers, in a relatively
short time.
1/   Continuous contraceptor is defined as a woman effectively protected
against pregnancy during the whole year.
2/   Source:  Westinghouse Population Center, Part I of the Survey of Global
Patterns on Contraceptive Distribution in the Private Sector in Selected
Developing Countries, Columbia, Maryland, 1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 18
31.       For the next two to thiree years the present facilities available to
the family planning program will be sufficient to handle the volume of clients
and acceptors to meet the targets of fertility decline, provided that: (a) these
clinics serve adequate catchment areas and (b) they function effectively with
at least three half day sessions a week and service an average of 12 patients
per session. The number of clinies estimated as needed for 1974 (2,300 clinics)
was already in operation in 1973; however, average performance of these clinics
would have to improve in order to recruit and retain the stated number of fam-
ily planning clients in the future. At present, many clinics are operating
at a low level of performance and there are frequent overlaps in catchment
areas among many of them. By 1975, the number of effectively operating clinics
would need to increase to 1,580.
32.       A first indication is that the present rural health units of the
Ministry of Health would be sufficient for the next three years to carry out
the program with the indicated targets if the performance of their family
planning services is made more effective in terms of new clients and follow
up of old clients. However, careful planning for extension of the RHU network,
commesurate to personnel availability and public response to the program will
have to start immediately, in preparation of future needs.



ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 18
was already in operation in 1973; however, average performance of these clinics
would hive to improve in order to recruit and retain the stated nuzaber of famr
ily planning clients in the future.  At present, many clinics are operating
at a low level of performance and there are frequent overlaps in catchment
areas among many of them.
32.       A first indication is that the present rural health units of the
Ministry of Health would be sufficient for the next three years to carry out
the program with the indicated targets if the performance of their family
planning services is made more effective in terms of new clients and follow
up of old clients. However, careful planning for extension of the RHU network,
commesurate to personnel availability and public response to the program will
have to start immediately, in preparation of future needs.



ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 16
:1: PHILIPPINES POPULATION PROJECTIONS BASED ON ASSUKPTIONS OF (A) CONSTANTLY
HIGH FERTILITY AND (B) MODERATELY FAST FERTILITY DECLINE
1970-2000
-Population ProJections
(in millions)
(July 1)            Birth Rate      Death Rate   Rate of Natural
(Constant  (Moderately    per 1,000         per 1,000     increase (,)
Year   Fertility)  fast decline)  A           B    A         B    A            B
1970*           36.8                   42.5            12.5             3.0
1971*           38.0                   hl.5           12.5              2.9
1972*           39.2                   4o.3           12.3              2.8
1973*           4W0.4                  39.8           11.8              2.8
1974     41.7            41.2   40.7        38.1  10.9      8.7  3.0         2.6
1975     43.0           4j2.3   4o.9        37.1  9.8       8.4  3.1         2.5
1976     44.4            43.3   41.0        35.9  8.7       8.2  3.2         2.5
1977     45.9            441.4  41.1        33.2  8.6       8.1  3.2         2.5
1978     47.4           4l5.6   41.3        33.1  8.4       7.9  3.3         2.5
1979     49.0            46.7   41.4        33.0  8.2       7.8  3.3         2.5
1980     50.7            47.9   41.5        32.9  8.1       7.7  3.3         2.5
1985     60.1            54.4   42.2        32.6  7.5       7.3  3.5         2.5
1990     71.6            61.8   42.4        31.0  7.0       6.9  3.5         2.5
1995     85.5            70.1   41.7        30.0  6.5       6.7  3.5         2.b
2000    101.9            78.9   40.9        28.9  6.1       6.5  3.5         2.2
* Actual Rates



Table 2:  TIilThIS hiaT WOULD BE 0i'TTED IF P-iDiCTIGN P WJ&tE RIdLIZED ISTEAD OF P.OJECTI0O;  ,
Wormen Continuous
Contraceptors                            Continuous              Continuous
Births              During Year  V          Of Which         Contraceptors           Contraceptors                Lew
Ormtted                   A of Married      50%1-6c;  wwh    Contributed Ey          Contribute,- by           Acceptors
Year    Total            flurmber     Women          Program  2       Program in 1969-73    Program fror 19?1, on /In Froram
1974    271,8G0        1,037,200       19.3            652,320             388,300                 388,300               528,000
1975    352,0oo        1,L408,000      21.0            8144,800            213,500                 503,920               681,8oo
1976    382,900        1,531,600       25.2            918,960             118,800                 652,200               533,500
1977    1,15,500       1,662,o00       26.1            997,200              63,900                 667,6&o               659,100
1978    L5C,10G        1,800,1;00      27.6          1,080,2L0              35,300                 757,070               646,300
1979    h86,800        1,907,200       28.8          1,168,320              18,700                 800,220               736,200
1980    525,800        2,103,200       30.0          1,261,920               7,900                 904,130               715,600
1981    567,100        2,268,10o0      31.2          1,361,0o0               4,400                 966,330               789,1400
1982    611,000        2,hhh,000       32.4          1,466,Loo                 -                 1,052,360               828,100
1983    657,800        2,631,200       33.7          1,578,720                 -                11140,350                876,700
1984    707,600        2,830,400       34.9          1,698,240                 -                 1,218,310               959,900
1985 4/ 760,100        3,0141,600      36.1          1,824,960                 -                 1,321,510             1,006,900 go !
1/ Estimated on the basis of fertility rates prevalent without any contraception (250 per 1000
women 15-149 years as ,maximum" fertility) applied to the number of births to be averted.
2/ It is assumed that 40% of the contraception practice required to avert births will be done
outside the program and that by 1987 that proportion will increase to reach 50% by 1991.
3/  Calculated in Tables 3 and 4 on the basis of:  (a) new acceptors per year during 1969-1972;
(b) continuous program clients following the function e Bt where e = 2.718282, natural
logarithm base, B = drop-out rate, t = years; (c) continuous program clients declining with
increasingly improved continuation rates through time, (1974-75, LO%; 1976-78, 45%3 1979-84,
50%; 1985-89, 55%; 1990 on, 60%); (d) new acceptors were assumed to enter linearly to the
program during the year, each contributing 6 months of effective contraception during year.
14/  The level of new acceptors from 1985 on would have to continue at around 1 million women
per year up to 1995, increasing slowly thereafter to reach 1.4 million by the year 2000.                                 v
0



Table 3t CONTINUOUS OONTRACEPTORS 1/ CONTRIBUTED BY PROGRAMS IN 1969-73
Continuous Users fram AoeDtors in
1969/70         1970/71          1271/72          197"2/73
New Acceptors
in Program      89,200        204,000          343,800          440,800
Continuous
users in
1971            49,060
1972            26,760         112,200
1973            15,164          61,200          189,090
1974             8,028         34,680           103,140          242,440           388,288
1975             4,460         18,360            58,446          132,240           213,506
1976             2,676         10,200            30,942           74,936           118,754
1977               892          6,120           17,190            39,672            63,874
1978               892           2,040           10,314           22,040            35,286
1979                             2,040            3,438           13,224            18,702
3,438           4,408              7,846
4,408             4s4O8
v/ Obtained as followst
.60 (Women needed to be        CYP contributed by        CYP contributed by       New Accep-
continuous contra-    -   contraceptors con-    -   contraceptors in          tors 6
ceptors in year)           tinuing from 1969-73      program in 1974 on       months each
x- New acceptors during year
0
cr



Table 4:  ESTIMATED CONTINUOUS USERS FOLLOWING A NEGATIVE EXPONENTIAL
FUNCTION FROM THE YEAR OF ACCEPTANCE
Continuous                           Continuous users remaining from acceptors in year:
users in
year     1974      1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984    1985
1974      -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -
1975   290,1420     -         _         _          _         _         _         _          _         _
1976   158,400   375,000      -         -          -         _         _         _          _         _         _
1977    89,770   20h,530   309,440      -          -         -         -         -          _         _         _         _
1978    47,520   115,900   176,060   382,290       -         -         -         -          -         -         _
1979    26,400    61,360   101,370   217,510   374,880       -         -         -          -         _         -
1980    15,840    34,100    58,690   125,230   213,290   449,080       -         -          -         -         -
1981     5,280    20,450    32,010    72,500   122,800   272,390   436,500 
1982     5,280     6,820    213140    39,550    71,100   161,960   264s760   481,550        -         -         -         _
1983      -        6,820    10,670    26,360    38,780   103,070   157,1430   292,090   505,130       -         -
1984      _         -        5,330    13,180    25,850    58,900   100,180   173,670   306,390   534s810        -
1985      _         _        5,330     6,590    12,930    36,810    57,250   110,520   182,180   324s390   585,510        -
1o



Table 5:   CONTINUOUS CONTRACEPTOiSR AND NEW ACCEPTORS IN THE PROGRAM.
PHILiPPINES 1974-85
Continuous contraceptors               New Acceptors
Women 15-49    Married Women         from previous years                    In Program
;% of married       Nube           of married
Year           Years           15-42              Number    women 15-49 4       Number   women 15-49
1974         9,143,619         5,644,492            388,300          6.9        528,000           9.3
1975         9 465021          5,865,34B            503,920          8.6        681,800         11.6
1976         9,805,979         6,o74,388            652,200         10.7        533,500           8.8
1977        10,167,002         6,292,054           667,640         10.6         659,100         10.5
1978        10,548,721         6,518,990            757,070        11.6         646,300           9,9
1979        10,951,286         6,756,023            800,220        11.8         736,200         10.9
1980        11,3714502         7,003,904            90M,llo         12.9        715J,600        10.2
1981        11,817,792         7,262,733            966,330        13.3         789J4oo         10.9
1982        12,280,660         7,532,714         1,052,360          14.0        828,100         11.0
1983        12,761,752         7J814J,913        1,1140350         14.6         876,700         11.2
1984        13,256,846         89U0,1448         1,218,310          15.0        959,900         11.8
1985        13,754,157         8,419,086         1,321,510          15.7      1,006,900         12.0
1/ See Table 2 col. 3, for percent of total continuous contraceptors (both within and outside
the program3 required to the stated achieve fertility decline.
0'
PhI



Table 6: ACTIVE CLIENTS DURING YEAR CLINIC VISITS, SESSIONS AMID NUMBER OF
FAMIIL PLANNING CLINICS
Active clients         Number of clinic       Number of ses-        Number of family
Year         during  ar_visits  e  year                     sions Yer year        planing outletsA/
1974            916,300               3,665,200                305,400                 2,300
1975          1,185,720               4,742,900                395,300                 2,635
1976          1,185,700               4,742,800                395,300                 2,635
1977          1,326,740               5,307,000                442,250                 2,760
1978          1,L03,370               5,613,500                467,800                 2,760
1979          1,536,420               6,145,700                512,200                 2,780
1980          1,619,730               6,478,900                539,900                 2,840
1981          1,755,730               7,022,900                585,300                 2,690
1982          1,880,460               7,521,800                626,300                 2,95'
1983          2,017,050               3,068,20(                672,400                 2X,00
i184          2,178,210               8,712,800                726,100                 3,025
1985          2,328,410               9, 313,600               776,200                 . ,230
(1)  New acceptors during year + clients continuing from previous years.
(2)  Col. 1 x 4 visits per year.
(3)  Col. 2 r 12 patients per L.5-hour clinic session (average, 12 patients per session).
(4)  Col. 3 a 150-240 sessions per year (average of 3 sessions per week) up to 1980 and in-
creasing up to 3.5 sessions per week by 1985. (1974: 132 sessions per year or 2.7 ses-
sions per week)
1/  Estimatece on the basis of efficient utilization.
o0



ANEX 1
Page 18 of 18
Table 7: Changes In Age-Specific Fertility Rates,
Philippines Projections A & B
1975            1980                 2000
1970           A        B         A        B        A         B
6 - 3',             48.25        47.91    38.73    47.44    35.69    47.81    29.14
20   24            197.67        196.17   158.34   197.76   148.35   197.73   118.88
25 - 29            303.26        303.25   242.60   303.46   227.80   303.26   182.42
:z'- 34            292.25       299.28   233.84   292.28   219.21   292.18   175.32
_ 3c            271.24        271.26   217.01   271.34   203.81   271.58   162.95
i4' - 44           137.16        137.34   110.06   142.36   102.97   137.49    82.49
45 -                24.76         24.87    19.88    25.81    18.48    25.63    15.07
Total Fertility
Rate  1/           6.4           6.4      5.1      6.4       4.8      6.4      3.8
/ Live births per woman in reproductive ages.



ANNEX 2
TRAINING IN FAMILY PLANNING
Contents
Pagi No.
A.   Background of Family Planning Training in the
Philippines  .................................      1
B.  The Function of POPCQM in Family Planning
Training  ....................................      3
C.  Family Planning Training in the Department
of  Health  ...................................     5
D.  The New Regional Training Centers - DOH   .......      7
Appendix I - Agreement Between the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the National
Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and the
Commission on Population (POPCOM)
Project Title: Operation of 11 Regional Offices
Of the Comaission On Population
Appendix II - Agreement Between the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), the National
Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and the
Commission on Population (POPCOM)
Project Title: Establishment of A Training
Division Within The Office Of
The Commission On Population






ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
TRAINING IN FAMILY PLANNING
A. Background of Family Planning Training in the Philippines
1.        Work in the family planning field was started by voluntary agencies
and consequently these agencies were the first to undertake training activities.
When the DOH became involved in the delivery of family planning services in
1969 it initially used the training facilities of the voluntary organizations
(mainly IMCH and FPOP).  After a short time, however, it started to conduct
its own family planning training through its Regional Training Centers (RTC),
and by now all public health personnel that has to be trained in family plan-
ning is being sent to these centers.
2.        The IMCI established its "National Training Center for Maternal
Health Service" in mid-1967, in accordance with an agreement with the National
Economic Council and the USAID. Its objectives are:
(a)  to assist in providing to the facuLty and students of
medical, nursing and midwifery schools knowledge and
education relative to population problems and family
planning;
(b)  to provide comparable education to all health and para-
medical personnel in the Philippines.
Trhe training center conducts courses of three weeks duration, with ideally
30 participants per course. Since its inception the following numbers have
participated in the INCE training program:
FY     Physicians      Ilurses    'Midwives    Others      Total
1968        536           407          389         148      1,489
1969        298           183          260          -         741
1970        420           447          354         508       1,729
1971        451           339          434       1,347      2,571
1972        448           216          417         977      2,058
1973 /a      67           100          172         155        494
Total     2,220         1,692        2,035       3,135      9,082
_a    July 1, 1972 through February 28, 1973.



ANNEX 
Page 2 of 12
Tn addition the center gives one or half-day orientation courses to inter-
ested groups on request.
3.        The training activities of the IMCII have been an important part of
the country's efforts in family planning. They constituted the first large-
scale training program and many of the present trainers in family planning
have been trained by IMCH's National Training Center. Since many organiza-
tions, and especially the DOH, have started their own training programs, the
activity of the IMCH Training Center is decreasing. Its target for FY 1973,
as established under the POPCOM/IEDA/USAID agreement, is to train 480 physicians
and paramedical personnel, and to conduct refresher courses for 200 persons
- a target that is significantly below its nast achievements.
4.        The FPOP started its training program in family planning in 1966.
This program was first oriented towards training FPOP's own staff, although
some staff of other organizations (e.g., the Presidential Arm of Community
Development) also attended the FPOP courses. The training activities of the
FPOP since 1970 were as follows:
PARTICIPANTS IN FPOP TRAINING PROGRAM
Year      Physicians      Nurses      Midwives      Others     Total
1970         .146                 112                 224       482
1971          112           99           61           139       411
1972           50           46           36           283       415
1973 /a        26           23            7            38        94
/a   through March 20, 1973.
The duration of the courses mostly lies between 2 and 4 weeks.  Only a small
part of these training activities is funded under the NEDA/POPCOM/USAID agree-
ment, the greater part being financed through IPPF funds.
5.        The DOH, through its Office of Health Education and Personnel Train-
ing, started training in family planning at the end of FY 1970 with the in-
service training of 225 members of its own personnel. The number of various
categories of personnel trained in family planning over the years is given
below 1/:
I/   Figures provided by POPCOM.  Since DOH training is executed in various
centers and through a variety of.courses, figures differ depending on
the source (e.g., Table 1 of this Annex). Numbers trained correspond
to staff trained in courses of varying duration.



ANNEX 2_
Page 3 of 12
Fiscal
Year     Physicians    Nurses    Midwives   !Motivators    Others    Total
1971        227          497         292           805           __      1,821
1972        445          444         785            -           165       1,839
1973 /a     196          185         585           726           32       1,692
/a   July 1, 1972, through February 28, 1973.
For instance, in FY 1971 40% of the participants only took an orienta-
tion course of 2 days, while another 30% went through a course of one
week. However, in the following years the more intensive orientation courses
started to prevail.
6.        Apart from the organizations mentioned, a variety of other organ-
izations is currently involved in training in family planning. Mostly they
train onlv lay personnel in short courses. The only notable exception is the
University of the Philippines, where, in cooperation with other organizations,
over 250 physicians were trained annually over the past few years. The largest
numbers of non-medical personnel are trained by the Department of Social Wel-
fare (volunteer couple informants) and the Responsible Parenthood Council or
RPC (opinion leaders). The ultimate aim of the RPC training program is to
train couples in the rural areas to practice the rhythm method. Because the
Practicing of this method requires a relatively complicated effort on the part
of the acceptors, the RPC has built up an elaborate training system, ir which
*he Training Division of the National Project Staff is responsible for train-
inr Provincial Training Teams, which in turn train the Barrio Teams. The
Barrio Teams are responsible for the recruiting and training of acceptors.
As the RPC tries to staff its orzanization at the provincial, municipal and
barrio levels with people who are regarded opinion leaders in their respec-
tive communities, it does an important job in increasing the awareness of the
population problem in rural areas.
B. The Function of POPCOM in Family Planning Training
7.        In the earlv years of the family planning training effort each
organization conducted its training fairlv independently. In 1972, however,
POPCOM began to move in the direction 'of bringing more uniformity into the
familv planning courses conducted by the various organizations. This was
possible because POPCOM can exert a direct influence on that part of the
family planning training that is funded through it, notably under the NEDA/
POPCOM/USAID agreement.  This includes all training of medical and Paramedi-
cal personnel, the onlv exception being the IPPF-funded part of the FPOP-
conducted training. POPCOM initiated coordinating efforts towards uniformity



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
in the set-up and contents of family planning courses. The Bank project pro-
vrides for the establishment of a separate training division within POPCOM in
order to further strengthen the scope and the quality of its coordinating
activities.
8.        POPCOM also determines, in consultation with NEDA and USAID, the
numbers of the various categories of personnel to be trained by each organ-
ization. As mentioned in para. 3, the volume of training by the IMCH has
decreased sharply in the recent past as a result of the increased training
activities of the DOH in family planning for its own personnel.  This was a
reasonable move by the DOH, which will be assuming an increasingly important
role in the provision of family planning services to the population. Given
the magnitude of the training effort in family planning, the DOH will need
to act in the near future to incorporate family planning into the orientation
courses given to all new DOH staff, to alleviate the load of the RTCs and
decrease the periods of absence of the health personnel from their jobs.
9.        It should be recognized, however, that the Training Center of the
IMCH has a valuable reservoir of training experience, which should not be
wasted. In particular, the IMCH Training Center should be intensively used
to train the large backlog of untrained medical personnel working outside
the DOH system.
10.       Recently, family planning has been introduced into the curricula
of the medical schools. However, physicians from new graduations will still
need some training to work in family planning, since the courses do not pro-
vide for enough practical experience, (e.g., in IUD-insertion). In the
schools of nursing and of midwifery family planning education is beginning
to be introduced in their curricula. More recently, the Presidential Decree
No. 79 of December 1972, revising the Population Act of 1971, contains a
Letter of Instruction to the Department of Education, directing it "to in-
form all schools of medicine, nursing, midwifery, allied medical professions
and social work to prepare, plan and implement the integration of family
planning as a prerequisite to qualifying for the appropriate licensing ex-
amination." The Training Division in POPCOM as conceived in this project is
expected to stimulate and monitor this integration and to help in establishing
standards for its quality.
11.       Also, Presidential Decree No. 79, revising the Population Act of
1971, states as one of the purposes and objectives of POPCOM "to make family
planning a part of a broad educational program." An effort in this direction
is already underway through a project being implemented by the Department of
Education with funds from the UNFPA. It.consists of the introduction of
population and family planning education in the Filippino school system.
POPCOM's training division will continue to work in close cooperation with
the Department of Education in this program. The above objective for POPCOM
also implies that attention will be given to opportunities to provide family
planning and population education to the out-of-school population. On this



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
account, the Training Division will cooperate with the Department of Social
Welfare in its efforts to educate the local population through the activities
of its Social Welfare Centers.
C. Family Planning Training in the Department of Health
Current Situation
12.       The Office of Health Education and Personnel Training (OHEPT) of
the DOH has a double task. First, it is responsible for health education in
the country. To this end it organizes conferences and seminars, prepares
radio scripts and educational materials (mostly pamphlets), and participates
in meetings and discussions in order to improve the understanding of matters
relating to health among the population. In the regions, the same kind of
work is done by the regional health educators, of whom there were over 60 in
the country in 1972. Its second task is to coordinate and supervise all
training activities that are conducted under the authority of the DOH. These
activities consist of three main components. Firstly, there are eight schools
of nursing and three schools of midwifery functioning under the DOH. Secondly,
the DOH conducts special courses for its own personnel in its five Regional
Hlealth Training Centers. And thirdly, many of the institutions of the DOH
(lhospitals, RHU's) receive private school students for field work (the so-
called affiliation training).
13.       The task of OHEPT in the field of training is limited as it has no
direct authority over the various training institutions.  The para-medical
schools are managed in close coordination with the hospitals to which they
are affiliated. As to affiliation training OHEPT's main task is the allo-
cation of students to the various institutions in order to arrive at an even
distribution of the work load. Therefore, its principal area of responsi-
bility is the training of DOH's own personnel. The training is conducted
by the Regional Training Centers. Although the RTCs fall under the immediate
authority of the Regional Health Offices, OHEPT is directly concerned with
the kind and number of courses given in those centers, as it is here that the
training needs of the DOH system, both in terms of quality and quantity, can
best be determined. In addition, the financing of the family planning train-
ing courses of the RHTC's under the NEDA/POPCOM/USAID agreement is done
through OHEPT.
14.       At the end of FY 1972, RTC's existed in five out of a total of
eitht regions. Hlowever, some training activities were going on in the re-
maining three regions. Each Regional Health Office is responsible for train-
ing the public liealth personnel in its own region. In the three health
regions that did not have an RTC a training staff was formed by officials
with regular duties elsewhere in the RTC's. The training situation by
region (old definition in FY 1972 was as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
Region 1:       (Dagupan City):  An RTC has been functioning here
already for over 10 years. It employs eight in-
structors, and in 1972 gave orientation courses to
77 and in-service training to 367 staff mpmbers.
Of the in-service training 90 percent was devoted to
family planning.
Region 2:       (Tuguegarao):  No RTC exists, but 19 new staff
members were given orientation training in the
Regional Office.
Region 3:       (Quezon City):  The RTC is accommodated in the
San Lazaro compound in Manila, where also the
DOH - offices are located. In 1972 orientation
training was given to 34, in-service fmaily plan-
ning training to 275 staff members.
Region 4:       (Naga City):  No formally organized RHTC exists,
but a training staff of six was formed by mem-
bers of the regular personnel. They managed not
only to orient 20 new staff members, but also to
organize in-service family planning training for
273 staff members.
Region 5:       (Iloilo City):  The existing RTC employs eight
trainers who organized six family planning courses
and three courses for orientation and other in-
service training.
Region 6:       (Cebu City):  It has an established RTC which
organized orientation training for 73 new staff
members and in-service training in family plan-
ning for 300 of the public health personnel in
the region. A one-week training seminar in nutri-
tion was attended by 81, and a two-week course in
tuberculosis control by 83 staff members from the
region.
Region 7:       (Zamboanga City):  The region has no RTC; however,
several courses and seminars were organized, mostly
of about one week duration. In addition, 36 new
staff members received orientation training.
Region 8:       (Davao City):  The existing RTC organized seven
courses in family planning with a total of 295 par-
ticipants. Further it gave orientation training to
an unspecified number of newly appointed personnel.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 12
15.       Although from an organizAtional point of view OHEPT would have
among its responsibilities the development of standards for uniformity in
set-up and quality of the courses o.'fered by the various regions, each region
seems to organize its courses independently. Only in the family planning
courses there is some degree of uniformity.
16.       Data relating to the activity of these centers are presented in
Table 1.
17.       The performance of the RTCs has been hampered by inadequacy of
physical facilities and equipment at their disposal. Ninety percent of the
allocation for the RTCs in the budget for FY 1973 is for salaries and travel
expenses, leaving hardly any funds for basic supplies and materials.
D.  The New Regional Training :.enters - DOH
18.       The project will finance new buildings for 11 Regional Training
Centers of the Department of Health. Equipment, furniture, vehicles and
technical assistance will be also provided for these Centers through the
project. Each Regional Health office will thus continue to be responsible
for inservice training, under the coordination of the OHEPT. The training
programs will give priority to the following areas:
(a) Training of health and other Government personnel in family
planning;
(b) Establishment of a special pre-service course of three-month
duration to reorient midwives who will work in the rural health
and family planning program in RHUs and as resident staff in
Barrio Health Stations; and,
(c) Pre-service and refresher courses for the RHU health team
(with new curricula) to introduce new service procedures and
reassignment of tasks (following Rizal experience and/or other
tested approaches to health and family planning service delivery).
19.       The establishment of one Regional Training Center under each Health
Regional Office is in line with the Government's directives towards region-
alization and it is further justified by the need to:
(a) Minimize language problems since still different dialects are
used in different regions (although Tagalog is used officially
in lectures and classes, the local dialect cannot be avoided
during the field training period);
(b)  Improve communication between supervisors at the Regional level
and staff at the local level, which will be stimulated if super-
visory staff from the Regional Health Office participate in the



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 12
courses as part-time instructors, as necessary (this would offer
excellent opportunities for supervisors and field staff to dis-
cuss field problems, as well as policies and operational pro-
cedures); and,
(c) Fulfill several objectives of the project, especially those
related to the development of new service procedures, including
family planning, reassignment of duties among the health
team in the RHU program and reorientation of midwives to
become community health workers.
20.       All these reasons point to the need for systematic in-service pro-
grams which will have to respond to the requirements of each Region. Overall,
there is no doubt that the training load will increase in all regions with
the proposed increase in the number of midwives in the Government services
(by 2,400) during the next five years. During this period, each Region would
have to reorient from 300 to 600 newly recruited midwives in four-month courses,
in addition to the training load originated by courses in family planning,
reorientation courses for midwives already in service and regular pre-service
and refresher courses for all other health staff. It is estimated that the
training load of these centers will increase from under 2,000 staff in 1972,
to over 12000 in 1985 (Tables 2 to 4 of this Annex). Also, the Regional Health
Offices will be called upon to pilot-test and extend the application of new
procedures for health and family planning services, for which adequate training
facilities at the Regional level will be required.
21.       The accommodation schedule of the RTCs has been determined on the
basis of regular training needs projected for the next ten years with allow-
ances for future expansion. Initial facilities will provide sufficient flex-
ibility for intensified training in family planning. Later on, the emphasis
will necessarily have to change to attend to other training health needs.
Seven teaching spaces for each Regional Trainiing Center will be provided
assuming that they will be used 28 periods per week (64% frequency factor)
and will have an occupancy factor in each period of 60%-70%. Dormitory accommo-
dation will be provided for 72 participants in double rooms, with additional
rooms for staff and visiting lecturers. It is anticipated that 20% of the
participants will have accommodation in the towns. The teaching quarters will
consist of two lecture rooms, four seminar rooms (one of which will double as
a demonstration room for family planning courses), one demonstration labora-
tory for environmental sanitation and a library. Administrative offices and
a conference room wiUl be provided for the following permanent staff: one
Director (M.D.), one Assistant Director, one Regional Training Nurse, one
Nurse Instructor, one Health Educator, one audiovisual technician and one
artist/illustrator.
22.       In order to provide clinical experience in rural areas, about
5 RJILTs per each Regional Training Center will be designated as "training" RHUs.



AN\EX 2
Page 9 of 12
23.       Provisions will be taken through this project to ensure proper
coordination of the health and family planning training programs of the
RTCs, by the OHEPT. For this purpose the project will finance 12-man ronths
of advisory services in training administration to strengthen OHEPT's
coordinating and supervisory capacity, and to assist the OHEPT and the RTCs
with course organization, curriculum adaptation and program implementation.
For the establishment and organization of the reorientation courses for mid-
wives (para. 18,b) the project will krovide 12 man-months of advisory services
in training of community health workers and family planning (for a detailed
description of midwifery training and proposed reorientation courses, see
Annex 5).
24.       In order to restructure the in-service and refresher training of
health personnel to introduce new service procedures (para. 18,c) 6 man-
months of advisory services are being included in this project. This assistance
will be also applied to help the Department of Health in the coordination of
the efforts to be undertaken by each of the Regional Health Offices, to
introduce new service procedures and to reassign tasks among the health team
(for more details on new procedures and task reassignation see Annex 4).
25.       Personnel training at tutorial and supervisory level will be
undertaken through the provision of 33 fellowships, to be financed through
this project. Each Regional Health Office Director will select among its
staff three graduate nurses to undergo a one-year course in Public Health in
the UP Institute of Public Health and training in other related fields (e.g.
administration) in other national institutions as required; they will be
subsequently employed as tutors in the RTC and supervisors in the Rural
Health Program. This training should take place during the first three
years of the project, starting with a group in September, 1974.
26.       The project will also finance the cost of nine 5-day annual evalua-
tion workshops (3 per year for three alternate years during the project period)
for batches of 20-25 instructors from the RTCs for the purpose of faculty
development and assessment of the training programs of the 11 Regional Train-
ing Centers. For the organization of these workshops technical assistance
mentioned in para. 22 may be utilized.



Table 1:  PRESENT WORKLOAD OF THE RTCr,   IN FY 1972  1/
Number of Particivants
Number of           Orientation     Family Planning    Other In-service
Region        Instructors 2/        Training          Training           Training          Observers    Affiliation    Total
(old definition)
1                9                  77                331                 36                 45           349           838
3               17                   _                275                  _                  9           787         1,111
5                9                   -                262                                   -                           262
6               10                  73                300                213                  6           486         1,074
8                8                                                                           -                          295
Total              53                 150              1,463                249                100         1,618         1;.580
Source: Office of Health Education and Personnel Training
I/  Annual reports of the Regional Health Offices. Differs from data on family planning training
presented in para. 5 of this Annex, for the whole country.
2/ As of March 1973.
0
o, -



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 12
Table 2:    ESTIMATES OF PUBLIC HEALTH PERSONNEL
IN 1972 AND 1985, AS A BASIS FOR PROJECTING
INSERVICE TRAINING NEEDS
Total Public                      Estimates For 1985 Z/
Health                      Hospital
Personnel, 1972  /           Staff       Non-HosDital    Total
Physicians                  4,986                   4,400         4,000        8,1400
Nurses                      6,628                   6,900         4,200       11,100
Nursing Aides               3,277                   4,300            300       4,600
Midwives                    3,458                     400        10,400       10,800
Dentists                    1,3004                    200         1,600        1,800
Dieticians &
Pharmacists                 643                     900            200       1,100
Medical Technicians            809                    900            500       1,,400
Social Workers & Health
Educators                   219                     200            200         400
Sanitarians                 1,571                      -           2,600       2,600
Others                     10,459                 12,600           ?,000      14,600
Total                      33,354                  30,800         26,ooo      56,800
1/  Estimates based on figures taken from Annual Reports of the DOH.
2/ Estimates based on assumption that by 1985 staffing would increase
to keep up with population growth; additionally for some categories
it has been assumed that staffing 'targets" (estimated from legal
requirements and from vacancies) would be fulfilled.



ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 12
Table C: COURSE-1EEKS OF INSERVICE TRAINING AT RTCs
PER DAR, FOR PUBLIC HEALTH PERSONNEL
Field Practice For
New                  Non-Ho spital           Non-Hospital Staff
Appointments      New                       New
of Hospital       Appoint-                  Appoint-
Staff             ments      Refresher  /  menits      Refresher 1/
Physicians              2               4           1             4-
N4urses                 2                           1             4            -
'4idwives              3               12           1             4
Dentists               2                2          1              2            -
Dieticians and
Pharmacists          2                2          1              -            -
Medical Technicians   2                 2           1             -            -
Socipl Workers &
Health Educators    8                 8          1             8            -
S anitarians                            5          1             5             -
I/ Refresher courses are estimated at 1 every 3 years.



ANINEX 2
Appendix I
PAge 1 of 16
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVPLOPMENT (USAID)
the
NATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (NEDA)
and the
COMMISSION ON POPULATION (POPCOM)
I.   PROJECT TITLE        OPERATION OF 11 REGIONAL OFFICES
OF THE COMMISSION ON POPULATION
LI.   SUMMARY         :   This project provides for the operation
of 11 regional offices of the Commission on Population. The
establishment of these regional offices is designed to
strengthen the Commission'3 capacity to coordinate the
program at the regional level.
III.   BACKGROUND           In late September 1972 Presidential
Decree No. 1 divided the Philippines into 11 regions and
specified 11 cities/municipalities as regional capitals where
regional government centers will be established. Aware of the
necessity of bringing the POPCOM closer to the operational
level to effect better coordination of the National Family
Planning Program and achieve its ultimate goals, the Board
of Commissioners approved the establishment of POPCOM
regional offices on an experimental or pilot basis in early
1973. POPCOM has now the nuclei of 11 regional offices
following the field service area pattern enumerated in
Presidential Decree No. 1 as amended. These are:
REGION                    REGIONAL CAPITAL
I                   San Fernando, La Union
II                   Tuguegarao, Cagayan
III                    San Fernando, Pampanga
IV                   Greater Manila



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 2 of 16
v                   Legaspi City
VI                   Iloilo City
VII                   Cebu City
VIII                   Tacloban City
TX                   Zamboanga City
X                   Cagayan de Oro City
xi                   Davao City
In addition to the Regional Officer-in-Charge and his
assistant, three support staff (a clerk-stenographer, a
driver, and a Janitor-nessenger) have since then been
hired.
IV.  GOALS AND OBJECTIVES-  To strengthen the Commission's
capacity to coordinate and oversee the National Population
Program at the regional or operational level and to enhance
mutual support and cooperation among agencies involved in
the National Population Program.
1. To monitor existing proj ects of participating agencies
and synthesize observations and experiences for
information and action by the participating agencies.
2.  To serve as an administrative body and clearing house
for requests, information, problems, resources and
needs of participating agencies at the regional level.
3. To observe projects and programs at the regional level,
whether government or private, assess the feasibility of
integrating family planning into the programs and, based
on this assessment, transmit to central office their
recommendations on the matter.
4.   To observe the present methods or systems practiced by
participating agencies in promoting the National Popula-
tion Program with respect to clinic services, training,
I/E/C, or research, and whenever feasible, after consult-
ing the appropriate agency, evaluate and recommend to the
central office improvements of program performance.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 3 of 16
V.   METHODS AND STRATEGY:
1.   The regional offices of POPCOM shall cause the creation
of a formal of informal forum composed of regional heads
and/or representatives of both government and private
agencies involved in the National Population Program,
whereby they can exchange ideas and experiences from which
to synthesize practical guidelines and effective solutions
to their problems.
2.   The regional offices, however, are not limited to the
above approach. They shall have the flexibility to evolve
other approaches which they believe are necessary to
facilitate the establishment of proper working relation-
ships with people and agencies involved in the population
program in the region. These shall be properly documented
for assessment.
3.   The regional offices shall establish relations with all
government and private agencies in the region and get to
know their existing programs and future plans and assess/
discuss the feasibility of integrating family planning
into existing programs.
4.   Using the knowledge of regional heads/representatives
of the different participating agencies and with the
combined efforts of their staff, the regional offices
shall observe present methods or systems practiced by
participating agencies in promoting the National Popu-
lation Program with respect to the institutionalized four-
pronged approach of clinic services, training, I/E/C,
and research. Whenever feasible, after consulting the
appropriate agency, the staff shall evaluate and recommend
to the Central Office suggested changes designed to improve
program performance.
5.   Regional Office operations shall respect agency programs
and priorities and shall adhere to the provisions of
existing sub-agreements between POPCOM and the partici-
pating agencies.



ANNEX 2
This sub-agreement includes four (4) other parts:    Appendix I
Page 4 of 16
Organizational Chart
Funictions of Regional Offices
Statement on the Establishment of
POPCOM Regional Offices
Budget Projection of the
Regional Offices
'jf QQd42,^a -<_1,       2 - 25 - 74
ommission on Popuion i                   Da t e
(POPCOM)
National Economic and Develop-                t e
ment Authority (NEDA)
United States Agency or                     a  e
International Development
(USAID))



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 5 of 16
Functions of Regional Offices
1.   Coordinate the implementation of plans and programs at
the regional level;
2.   Develop a program for coordinating the implementation of
family planning activities at the regional level;
3.   Monitor periodically to the central office reports from the
field which shall serve as basis for management decisions;
4.   Serve as the principal source of data and information on
the status as well as problems of implementation or programs
at the regional level;
5.   Serve as the clearing house for all problems in the region
prior to Central Office action so as to bring continuity
and order in agency operations;
6.   Serve as the recommendatory power in the region for family
planning matters involving policy decisions and for non-
programmed requests;
7.   Act as family planning consultant in the region for the
effective and efficient management of plans and resources;
8.   Coordinate the implementation of logistical plans and pro-
grams at the regional, provincial and municipal level;
9.   Serve as data bank and emergency supply depot for field outlets;
10.   Serve as equipment pool depot and service center for certain
categories of equipment in the region;
11.   Implement and adopt check and control systems for all resources
and commodities emanating from POPCOM;
12.   Prepare and execute upon approval of the head office, a
financial plan that shall assure the viability of the regional
office;
13.   Administer and control the regional office's approved budgeting,
accounting and collection and disbursements system, including
the complete accounting of commodities received in kind or
locally purchased;
14.   Provide needed support in assuring that funds flow smoothly;
and with adequate controls, from the head office of the
participating agencies to the field offices in the region;



AN=  2
AMendiz I_
Page 6 of 16
15.  Assist in all aspau of f4inail management affecting -par-
ticipatinSg agml.. operation in the region. This includes
the identificatioa nE financial eeds ad problem  of such
agencies, the developmnt of appropriate sub-agreemets, etc.
16.  Perform such function  as  y be proided by law.



AENEX 2
Appendix I
Page 7 of 16
STATEMENT ON THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF POPCOM REGIONAL OFFICES
1.   The Regional Office shall represent the Commission on
Population at the regional level.
2.   Its main functions are to strengthen the Commission's
capacity to coordinate and oversee the National Population
Program at the regional or operational level and to enhance
mutual support and cooperation among agencies involved in
the program.
3.   It shall monitor existing regional projects of participating
agencies and synthesize observations and experiences for
information and action by POPCOM and the participating agencies.
4.   It shall serve as an administrative body and clearing house
for requests, information, problems, resources and needs of
participating agencies at the regional level.
5.   It shall observe projects and programs at the regional level
of both government and private agencies, assess the feasibility
of integrating family planning into their programs and, based
on this assessment, transmit to the Central Office their recom-
mendations on the matter.
6.   It shall observe present methods or systems practiced by
participating agencies on promoting the National Population
Program with respect to clinic services, training, I/E/C or
research. And whenever feasible, after consulting the appro-
priate agency, evaluate and recommend to the Central Office
suggested changes designed to improve program performance.
7.   Regional Office operations shall respect agency programs and
priorities and shall adhere to the provisions of existing
sub-agreements between POPCOM and the participating agencies.



ANEX 2
ADDendix I
Page .R of I6
COINISSIOiN ON POPULATION
-  RecionaJ Offices
Summarized BudE:et of 1:-,penditures
FY 1974-1y075
Personal         Maint. & Othler       Equipment
Services         Optr,. Ex.penses      Outlavy        Ttal
Administration       760,,794            ,23P8I,5         7__350,190   t2  50539
Total      *     76O,794         S 1,238J955          S 35O,79O   t2,350,539
Sig.atu                       Date .4  
Commission on Populatio *POPCOM4
Signature  ___________                               Date   4f|  lq
NTational Economic and Development
Authority (=A)
Sig;naturcawf/               ct                      -)Date  _____ _____
United Stiates Agency for Intern2-
tional Development (USAID)



ANNEX 2
Aipendix I
Page 9 of 16
COi:.Z- S IOT Qr POMAO,'^IT
Rezionzl O>ff  cs
Iteiized -1dCctu o-' E:..penditures
FY 971374-19715
A.  Personal 'ervices                                                      S 760,794
11  Re-ior-.l Officcers (1l,20O/ro.                     f 15,)400
1.)  L A_ s * stant Rcrional O f ficers]T Projcct
Csox_i.z2fw~z .*  4./Lio0.                        124., 603
11  Ac,.in-st--a-,ivc Azsistantts II  f520/rso. (ne.w)      O3,6140
11  SJcno-.L;r ers $c 301/1o.                             39, 732
11  Clerl;s II C30i5/i.ao. (nev)                           33,732
11  Driers   ^                                             37,752
11  Jan-it'or  C1.2LO/i.o.                                 31, OCO
11  Acco.untats I Cr,  l)4/iao.                            65,208
7  ACraiaistrative Assistants III O4574:/m o. (.neV)      43,2i6
I.edi^a~crc                                                 1U. 275
11or:=en's Co:,pensation                                    6,coo
Cos't of' Livinr, Alloa-7ace                               4l,734
Provision ffor S21ary Ad3uztment *                         33,278
13.  I.aintenance and Ot'her OperatinG EXPenses                             1,238,955
1. TraveLinG Expenses (estiLated aioiunt)                 687,773
a)  Transportation                       35348,750
b)  Per Di-ems                           312,623
c)  Transportation and Per Die;s o-'
Other Authorized StaD 42300/mo./
regior                                26,400
2.  Coumiunication Services                                32,4o00
a)  T     ol-.e OO/;o .3/rcion            '3,200
) ee~z~ Cn1   8 5/-.:o./re,io.        11,220
3.  Suprl,2s and :aeria1s                                 19)4,400
a)  Illu:nzLur ion j2CC00,/o./re,,ion     26,!S4o
b)  CasolZ :1C, oil and spaxe par-Vs
e)  0,-fficL    pues2/nmo. ./re-ion   35,000
L.  Ot'her Services                                       252,3C2
a)  Repairs and I*tintcrance C$3,7(O/
b)  ,  co2ution   c/:  .re:r.on 
c)  TrveozentaL t  iorn E.xpenzes
3o,6.*



ANEX 2
Pae 2                                                      Qp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Anendix x
Pa.r,e 2                                                                        Page 10 of 16
a)  M.iscellaneous                        133,050
e)  ContinTency                           112,632
5. riclt QGC<O/mo. for 10 regions           -                 2,*000
C, Equipr.:ent Outlay                                                         35o,T9O
TOTAL             .                                2,350,-533
* SubJect to i=Dlementir.6 circuler;



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 11 of 16
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
1. To adopt and prescribe policies, rules and regulations
and procedures for the government of the POPCOM and to
modify, amend or repeal the same;
2. To receive, evaluate, modify and approve project proposals
on population matters from whatever source and to coordinate
and evaluate their implementation in accordance with the
approved plans and programs;
3. To approve the annual and or supplemental budget of POPCOM
as may be submitted to it by the Executive Director from
time to time;
4. To perform such other duties as may be assigned to it by the
President of the Philippines.
OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
1. To act as action officer of the POPCOM;
2. To sit in all meetings of the Board and participate in its
deliberations but will not have the right to vote;
3. To be responsible for the operation of the office staff and
of the national population program and for making decisions
on day-to-day basis subject to the direction and supervision
of the Chairman;
4. To prepare periodic review of program progress;
5. To submit annual and/or such supplemental budget estimates
to the Board of Commissioners;
6. To recommend policies and programs to the Board;
7. To perform such other duties as may be assigned to him
by the Board from time to time.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 12 of 16
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION
1. To formulate, coordinate and execute action on policies,
programs and plans affecting the general administration
of the internal organization of the Office of the Commission
on Population.
2.  To recruit, select, recommend and develop personnel for
the Office of the Commission on Population in accordance
with Civil Service rules and regulations.
3. To design and develop the administrative portion of the
computer based management information system.
4. To provide and maintain an efficient administrative
service.
5.  To provide consultative assistance on administrative
matters for the development of projects.
FINANCE DIVISION
1. To prepare and execute a financial plan that assures
the viability of the total population program.
2. To administer and control the budgeting operations of
the Commission and its participating agencies.
3. To maintain an effective system of disbursement and
control of usage of funds.
4. To prepare financial statements and reports and analyse
and verify accounting data submitted by participating
agencies.
LOGISTICS DIVISION
1.  Manages the procurement and disbursement of commodities,
supplies and equipment necessary to the effective and
efficient functioning of the Commission in coordination
with all concerned divisions.
2. Evaluates the Commodity, Equipment and Supply (CES) use
of participating agencies in consultation with Planning
Division.



A,NNEX2
Append ix I
Page 13 of 16
3. Controls and supervises the warehousing scheme of
this Commission.
4. Determines all possible sources of commodities
equipment and supplies and evaluates these to yield
the most economic source of any given commodity,
equipment or supply for the Commission.
TRAINING DIVISION
1. Facilitate the implementation of training policies
established by the Board of Commissioners of POPCOM.
2. Recommend to the Board of Commissioners through the
Executive Director policies, guidelines and standards
on training of personnel involved in the implementation
of the national population program.
3. Maintain a current inventory of priority training needs
and resources (facilities, staff, etc.) which can be
utilized to meet these needs.
4. Monitor and assess on-going training programs, facilities
and curricula through the central offices and the regional
units.
5. Review implications of research and evaluation and man-
power studies relevant to Philippine population training
needs.
6. Maintain liaison with agency training groups and training
associations to work for the continuous general improvement
and professionalization of population training.
7. Assist the Executive Director in serving as liaison between
Commission on Population and foreign donors or local agencies
on matters related to foreign training and scholarships in
the population area.
8. Coordinate with the Planning Division and other POPCOM
divisions on matters related to training.
INFORMATION/EDUCATION/COMMUNICATION DIVISION
1. Responsible for identifying the needs and problems of the
Population Program in terms of IEC support activities.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page l4 otl lbo
2. Harnessing resources which are supportive of Population
IEC on the national level such as agencies engaged in
IEC research, evaluation, material development and
distribution.
3. Dissemination of relevant IEC resource materials such
as research findings, reports, articles, etc. to indi-
viduals, groups or agencies concerned.
4. Management of an IEC equipment bank.
5.  Monitor the agencies participating with POPCOM in the
implementation of Population IEC activities on the
national level.
6. Ensure minimum over-lapping of such activities, identi-
fying which activities are working toward the specified
objectives and redirecting those which are not.
CLINIC SERVICES DIVISION
1.  Facilitate the implementation of clinic services
policies established by the Board of Commissioners.
2.  Recommend guidelines and policies in relation to the
conduct of clinic services activities.
3. Monitor and assess on-going clinic services programs.
4.  Insure  the efficient and proper coordination of all
projects involved in clinic services.
PLANNING DIVISION
1.  Actively assists the Exeecutive Director in planning all
activities of the Office of the Commission on Population.
2.  Designs and develops the operational and evaluation portion
of the management information system.
3.  Undertakes research and evaluation studies that the Office
of the Commission on Population may deem necessary to
improve the population program in consultation with other
divisions.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 15 of 16
4. Reviews and evaluates monthly and quarterly reports
in coordination with other Divisions.
5. Designs control system.
6.  Interprets statistical and other data on program
operations.
REGIONAL COORDINATING OFFICES
1.  Coordinate the implementation of plans and programs
at the regional level.
2.  Develop a program for coordinating the implementation
of family planning activities at the regional level.
3.  Monitor periodically to the central office reports from
the field which shall serve as basis for management
decisions.
4.  Serve as the principal source of data and information on
the status as well as problems of implementation of programs
at the regional level.
5.  Serve as the clearing house for all problems in the region
prior to Central Office action so as to bring continuity
and order in agency operations.
6.  Serve as the recommendatory power in the region for family
planning matters involving policy decisions and for non-
programmed requests.
7.  Act as family planning consultant in the region for the
effective and efficient management of plans and resources.
8.  Coordinate the implementation of logistical plans and
programs at the regional, provincial and municipal level.
9.  Serve as data bank and supply depot for field outlets.
10. Serve as equipment pool depot and service center for certain
categories of equipment in the region.
11. Implement and adopt check and control systems for all resources
and commodities eminating from POPCOM.
12. Prepare and execute upon approval of the head office, a
financial plan that shall assure the viability of the regional
office.



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 16 of 16
13. Administer and control the regional office's approved
budgeting, accounting and collection and disbursements
system, including the complete accounting of commodities
received in kind or locally purchased.
14. Provide needed support in assuring that funds flow smoothly,
and with adequate controls, from the head office of the
participating agencies to the field offices in the region.
15. Assist in all aspects of financial management affecting
participating agencies' operation in the region. This in-
cludes the identification of financial needs and problems
of such agencies, the development of appropriate sub-agree-
ments, etc.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 1 of 15
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT (USAID)
the
NATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (NEDA)
and the
COMMISSION ON POPULATION (POPCOM)
I. PPOJECT TITLE: ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRAINING
DIVISION WITHIN TIE OFFICE OF
THE COMMISSION ON POPULATION
11.   SUMMARY:        This project provides for the establishment
of a Training Division within the office of the Commission
on Population. The establishment of this division is designed
to enable the Commission tc effectively exercise its respon-
sibilities for coordination and improvement of all population
related pre-service and in-service training.
III.   BACKGROUND:     Presidential Decree No. 79, strengthening
the Commission on Population (POPCOM), has made it imperative
to review, and, where necessary, reinforce POPCOM's resources.
POPCOM has the total responsibility of planning and
coordinating population activities and integrating these with
the national development plans. To reinforce these functions,
the Board of Commissioners of POPCOM has approved the creation
of eleven regional offices and the establishment of an
Information/Education/Communication Division.
The continued expansion and diversification of training
programs in the cooperating agencies including the growing
involvement of these agencies in the training of foreign
nationals necessitate the establishment of a small profes-
sional training coordination staff in the POPCOM Central
office.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 2 of 15
IV.   GOALS MID OBJECTTVES: A Training Division of the Commission on
Population (POPCOM) is created to enable the Commission to
effectively exercise its responsibilities for coordination
and improvement of all population related pre-service and in-
service training. The Training Division will be responsible
for ensuring that existing and planned training programs
meet the priority needs of the national population program
at any given point in time.
a.   Facilitate the. implementation of training policies
established by the Board of Commissioners of POPCOM.
b.   Recommend to the Board of Commissioners through
the Executive Director policies on training of
Dersonnel involved in the implementation of the
national population program.
C.   Provide guidelines and standards on the preparation
and conduct of training programs.
d.  'Maintain a current inventory of priority training
needs and resources (facilities, staff, etc.) which
can be utilized to meet these needs.
e.  T4onLtor and assess on-going training programs,
facll-ities and curricula through the central offices.
f.   Review implications of research and evaluation and
manpower studies relevant to Philippine population
training needs.
s..  Cooperate with the Planning Division and other POPCOM
divisions in the preparation of long range and annual
operational plans, based on current program priorities,
manpower needs, research/evaluation feedback, foreign
and lcal resources, and other appropriate planning
factors.
h.   Maintain Liaison with agency training groups and training
associations to wBork far the continuous general improve-
ment and professionalization of population training.
i.   In coordination with the I/E/C Division, disseminate
articles and other resource naterials such as research
findings and reports to individuals, groups and agencies
concerned.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 3 of 15
j.   Assist the Administrative T)ivision in the planning
and implementation of in-service and career
development programs for the Population Commission
staff.
k.   Assist the Executive Director in serving as liaison
between Population Commission and foreign donors
or local agencies on matters related to foreign
training and scholarships in the population area.
i.   Assist the Executive D)irector in admirnistering foreign
scholarships program in cooperation with the appro-
priate POPCOM division and cooperating agencies.
m.   Coordinate with cooperating agencies and other
appropriate bodies the training of foreign nationals
in the field of population.
n.   Evaluate and give recommendations on the training
component of project proposals in relation to other
activities of the population program.
O.   Render technical assistance to participating agencies
in the development and implementation of training
programs.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING:  The Training Division shall be
headed by an Associate Director for Training who reports
to the office of the Executive Director, POPCOM. The
Associate Director for Training shall be assisted by Training
Project Officers for the major activity areas (e.g., Medical
and service-related; Information, Education and Communication).
Training Assistants will be employed as the work load requires.
Contractuals and short-term consultants will be utilized as
needed for special assignments.
Appendix A shows the organizational structure of the
Commission and staffing relationships if the Training Division
were to consist of the following:
1 Associate Director for Training
I Project Officer (Training - IEC)
1 Project Officer (Training - Medical and service related)
1 Project Officer (Training - Management and special fields)
2 Project Assistants (Training)
1 Secretary
2 Clerk/Typists



ANNEX 2
Annendix IL
Page 4 of 15
'rI.  PROGRAM ACTIVITIES:
a.   Analyze current training policies of the Population
Commission. As appropriate, obtain clarification on
implications of policies and program priorities.
Translate policies, program guidelines, and priorities
to written form for dissemination.
b.   Review implications of and interpret research and
evaluation studies related to manpower and training
needs of the Population Program. Propose other
studies needed to assess current needs and priorities.
Prepare detailed summary of short and longer term
training needs and rank by priority.
c.   Identify existing or potential resources (local and
foreign) for meeting the training needs. (Resources
include funds, physical facilities, training staff,
and curricula.)
d.   Assist the Planning Division in the preparation of a
long range plan outlining the higher priority-training
needs and resources. A detailed action program and
budget should be prepared for the first year of the plan.
The one year action program should identify implementing
agencies and distinguish between programs being directly
implemfented by POPCOM (or i-ts contractors) and those
being implemented by other training agencies. It should
also contain a plan for pre- and post-evaluation of
major training -programs.
e.   Establish a system of obtaining and distributing inform-
ation and materials of interest to training-staff and
principal resource persons.
f.   Determine availability of areas for training abroad.
Disseminate this information to cooperating agencies
and other parties. Establish and disseminate procedures
for seiection, processing, and follow-up of individuals
or groups sent abroad for training.
g.   In cooperation with the Management Information System
(MIS) unit of the Planning Division, establish a
system for objectively monitoring the implementation
of POPCOM-supported training programs and for prepar-
ation of reports on these.
!h.   Propose and assist in the undertaking of cost-benefit
studies of training programs and recommend improvements
to obtain more effective utilization of training resources.



ANNEX 2
Atppendtlix [ I
_ 8_     IlPage 5 of 15
This sub-agreement includes four (4) other parts:
Appendix A _  Organizational Chart
B -  Relationship of the Training
Division to other POPCOM
Organizational Units
C -  Job Descriptions
D _  Qualifications of Personnel
____ ___ ___22 February 1974
Commi%s i on Population (POCOM)               Date
National Economic Development                 Date
Authority  (NEDA)
United States Agency for                      ?ate
laternational Development CTJSAID)



-9-                   ~                ANNEX 2
Appendix II
* BUDGET OF TPRAINING DIVISION      ~             Page 6 of 15
FY 1975-1978
(In Philippine Pesos)
FY'V75    FY`76      FY'77      FY'78
I rsOnal Services
:AssociaLe Director for
Training                  15,750    16,538    17,365    18,233           67,336
3  Project Officers             44,100    46,305    48,621    51,052         190C73
2  4-soject Assistants          11,290    11,855    12,447    13,070          4l'662
1  5! cretaty                    4,662     4,896      5, 1!l0    5,397        20, o3
2  Clerik-TDpists                8,064     8,466      3,SSS      9,332        3', 750
Sub-Totalj                83,866    88,060    92,461    97,084         361,471
CSIS Govermnent Share
Retirement-Insurance           5145      5,-724     6,010      6,311        23,497
Life Insurmnce                 2,,516    2,642      2,774      2,913        10,845
Nedicare    .                      405        405       405        405         1,620
TOTAL (Personal Service) 92,239    96,831   1o1,650   106,713           397,4"3
.  Eq uipment                     80,000    70,000    70,000    30,000         250,000
3.  Supplies & Ml1terimls         10,000    15,000    25,000    35,000          85,000
4. 1r5iscellaneous Expenses
Tlransportation         j       75,000    80,000   100,000   120,000         375,000
Communication Services           7,000     8,000      9,000    10,000         34,000
Other Cost                       5,000     6,000      7,500    10,000         28,500
GRAND TOTAL       .      269,239   275,831   313,150   311,713    1,169,933



APPE;NGIX A
CCft M155iUN ON POPULATION
EXECUTIVE DIRFCT0R                           ORGANJIZATIlNtAL CHART
DEPUTY EXECUTIVE DIRECTCR
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
| Executivj  5toff                                                                              3)
|  FlINANCE        J                 DM>INlSTRATION                       .                               OI lC|
.~~~~~~~~A
CES  |   I/E/C                                         ~~~~~~~~ ~~              ~      ~~PLANNING  T 1RAINING   As;so. bir
.            .                   ~~~~~~~~~~roject  l;ss
REGIONAL (UFFICES (11)
Regiona fl O fficers (11)                                         Secretarj
*qAsst* Rnr. Office  (1I)                                  {Clerk/Typisto (2
Acoutat -.        )
0D PN
Ln



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 8 of 15
APPENDIX B
Relationship of the Training Division to other
POPCOIM Organizational Units
The establishment of the Training Division does not diminish or
affect the responsibilities of the other POPCOM Divisions or Regional
Offices, as already formulated. Specifically:
(i) The Administrative, Finance, and Logistics Divisions act
in support of the Commission's operating divisions: I/E/C,
Training, and Clinical Services. Coordination is achieved
through first, the formal information system, and second,
communication channels such as the regular meetings of
Associate Directors.
(ii) The Associate Director for Training has responsibility for
the substantive content and structure of the training
program.  The POPCOM Regional Officers have line respon-
sibility to the Office of the Executive Director for the
coordination of the population program in their respective
regions.
(iii)  The Planning Division is responsible for (a) the preparation
of long-range and annual plans, (b) the development of
management information systems that will provide management
at all program levels with information appropriate to its
requirements, and (c) research that will guide the Commission
in the formulation of policy and operating procedures. In
all these activities the closest consultation with the other
divisions and the Regional Offices is essential.
Planning and control are essential elements of all program activities,
thus for example, a prerequisite for the effective functioning of a training
agency is a coherent set of plans. However, these must conform with plans
prepared by the Training and Planning Divisions.  Such conformance is assured
through the process of sub-agreement preparation. In this activity the
scope of the planning process in the Planning Division is program wide, in
order to achieve a proper balance of activities in attaining program goals.
\!ithiin the framework of plans so prepared the Training Division establishes
a strategy that will result in the optimal utilization of resources assigned
to the training functions. To carry out this task, the support role of the
Pl'anning Division in terms of the provision of management information and
research results must be utilized.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 9 of 15
Similarly, there are levels of control, such that detailed operational
control of activities is assigned to the agencies, which in turn are monitored
by the Training Division. Here again the support role of the Planning Division
comes into play, through the design of appropriate control systems. Coordin-
ation of all levels is achieved through the formal information flow (such as
agency progress reports).



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 10 of 15
APPENDIX C
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
r.   ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR TRANING
1.   Be directly responsible to the Executive Director for all
training activities of POPCOM.
2.   Provide leadershin and coordination for all training
activities and supervise the POPCOM Training Division staff.
3.   Assume responsibility for monitoring and facilitating the
implementation of the training projects of the Commission.
4.   Cooperate wwith the PLanning Division and other POPCOM
Divisions in the preparation of long term plans and annual
operational plans for training activities to be implemented
or sponsored by POPCOM.
5.   Establish and operate a system for monitoring and reporting
on population training activities. This system shall utilize
the appropriate Project Officers of POPCOM and the implement-
ing agencies.
6.   Recommend training policies and program improvements to
the Executive Director on a regular basis.
7.   Ensure minimum overlapping between regional training activities
and national training activities.
8.   Establish guidelines and priorities, within existing POPCOM
program policies and procedures, covering financial and
other assistance for population training activities. List
of priorities should identify types of activities (medical
services, management, ecc.) which should be given 1st, 2nd,
3rd priority by POPCOM.
9.   Provide monthly and other reports to the Executive Director
on progress and problems of inplementing the objectives of
the Training Division.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 11 of 15
rI.   PROJECT OFFICER FOR CLINIC ANID SERVICE RELATED TRAINING
1.   Assist the Associate Director for Training in carrying out
his responsibilities :'iith particular reference to training
activities which support regular and innovative medical,
paramedical and service-related activities of the Population
Program.
2.   Maintain close liaison with staff of other POPCOM divisions,
participating agencies or other institutions which plan and
implement medical and paramedical training, especially training
which supports family planning service delivery systems (both
clinic-based and mobile service systems).
3.  -Monitor and report on pre-service and in-service training
activities in the medical and paramedical areas. As appro-
priate, these reports shall include recommendations for
improving medical and paramedical training and licensing
or certification procedures.
4.   Identify and propose to the Associate Director for Training
the needed audio-visual support in the training of medical
and other service-related personnel.
III.   PROJECT OFFICER FOR I/E/C
1.   Assist the Associate Director for Training in carrying
out his responsibilities with particular reference to
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) training
activities.
2.   Maintain close liaison with the IEC Division of POPCOM
and the training staff of IEC agencies in the population
field.
3.   Monitor, on a regular basis, IEC training activities
(including training of family planning at-large and
clinic-based motivators). Prepare progress reports on
IEC training for the Associate Director and, as appro-
priate, include recommendations for improvement of IEC
training policies amd programs.
4.   In cooperation with appropriate training agencies and/or
technical consultants, continually assess and upgrade the
training curricula, facilities, and instructional staff
for various IEC training activities.
5.   Identify and propose the needed audio-visual support for
training activities in IEC.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 12 of 15
IV.  PROJECT OFFICER - -MANAGEMENT AND SPECIAL TRAINING
1.   Assist the Associate Director for Training in.carrying out
his responsibilities, with particular reference to Manage-
ment Training and.other specialized training activities.
2.   Make a regular assessment of the need for training to
improve the management knowledge and skills of middle and
top level managers in the Population Program agencies.
Prepare reconmmnndations to the Associate Director for
inter-agency training programs to meet these needs.
3.  lIork wi:tt appropriate agencies to develop course guide-
lines to improve the knowledge and skills of first-line
supervisors,, both intra- and inter-agency courses.
4.   Develop general guidelines and procedures for selecting
and processing personnel for overseas training grants.
administered by the Commission on Population.
5.  ).faintain regular liaison with donors and local.agencies
concerned with.overseas training activities..
6.   Maintain liaison with cooperating agencies and other
bodies (like WMO) concerned with the training of foreign
nationals in the field of:population.
7.   In coordination with the research unit of POPCOM Planning
Division andx other divisions, and the.cooperating agencies
help develop a system for evaluating the effectiveness of
population training activities supported by POPCOM.
V.  PROJECT ASSISTANT TRAINING (2)
1.   Assist Associate Director for Training and Project
Officers to carry out their training responsibilities.
2.   As clirected, compile information on training activities
and prepare draft progress reports.
3.   Establish and -naintain files and information retrieval
system on training activities.
4.   As directed,. make initial reviews of training proposal
and budgets. submitted to the Training Division for action.
5.   As directed, assist in the preparation of training program
and.in the monitoring of program implementation.
6.   Perform any other duties that may be assigned.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 13 of 15
APPENDIX D
QUALIFICATIONS
I.   ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR TRATININC
A.   Education Requirements
Completion of Master's Degree in Education, Education
Administration, Public Health Administration or equivalent.
B.   Experience Requirements
1.   General Requirements
(i)  Occupation of a position of responsibility
involving the supervision of workers.
(ii) Work which required a proven ability to
communicate ideas effectively and efficiently
to other people.
(iii)  Work which has shown proficiency in the verbal
expression of ideas and an analytical capability.
2.   Specific Requirements
(i)  An ability to plan and implement a large-scale
training program.
(ii) Experience in the development and review of
training curricula, course materials, or
training aids.
IT.   PROJECT OFFICER FOR CLINIC AND SERVICE-RELATED TRAINING
A.   Education Requirements
(i) Course work towards a Master's Degree in Education,
Education Administration, Public Health Administration
or equivalent.
(ii) Bachelor's Degree.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 14 of 15
B.   Experience Requirements
1.   General Requirements
(i) Work which required a proven ability to communicate
ideas effectively and efficiently to other people.
(ii) Work which has shown proficiency in the verbal
expression of ideas and an analytical capability.
2.   Specific Requirements
(i) Experience in the development and' review of
training curricula, course materials, or
training aids.
(ii) Experience in a health-related field.
III.   PROJECT OFFICER FOR INFORMIATION, EDUCATION, COMMUNICATION TRAINING
A.   Education Requirements
(i) Course work towards a Master's Degree in Communication,
Education, Education Administration or equivalent.
(ii) Bachelor's degree.
B.   Experience Requirements
1.   General Requirements
(i)  Work which required a proven ability to
communicate ideas effectively and efficiently
to people.
(ii)  Work which has shown proficiency in the verbal
expression of ideas and an analytical capability.
2.   Specific Requirements
(i) Experience in the development and review of
training curricula, course materials, or
training aids.
(ii)  Experience in communications media.



ANNEX 2
Appendix II
Page 15 of 15
IV.   PROJECT OFFICER FOR MANAGE"07T ANLD SPECIAL TRAINING
A.   Education Requirements
(i) Course wvork towards a Master's Degree in Management,
Education, Education Administration, or equivalent.
(ii) Bachelor's degree.
B.   Experience Requirements
1.   General Requirements
(i)  Work which required a proven ability to
communicate ideas effectively and efficiently
to other people.
(ii) Work which has shown proficiency in the verbal
expression of ideas, and an analytical capability.
2.   Specific Requirements
(i)  Experience in the developmnent and review of
training curricula, course materials or
training aids.
(ii) M4anagement experience in either a line or
staff capacity.
V.   PROJECT ASSISTANTS (2)
A.   Education Requirements
Bachelor's Degree in Education, Communication, Public
Administration or equivalent.
S.   Experience Requirements
1.   General Requirements
(i) Ability to communicate ideas effectively and
efficiently to other people.
(ii) Proficiency in the verbal expression of ideas,
and an analytical capability.
2.   Specific Requirements
Experience in the preparation of reports.






ANNEX 3
AGREEMENTE BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND THE UNFPA ON IEC COMPONENT
Contents
Page No.
Project Summary                                         1
1.   Background and Supporting Information                   1
2.   Objectives of the Project                               4
3.   Workplan                                                5
4.   Description of UNFPA Inputs                             6
Appendix I - IEC Division - Functional Organization
Appendix II - Job Description






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 14
PROJECT SUMMARY
In view of the intensified efforts of the government to accelerate
national development, Presidential Decree No. 79 was issued to strengthen
the capability of the Commission on Population (POPCOM) in planning and
coordinating population activities.
Iany of the recent proposed population activities are directly concerned
with or relate to Information,. Education and Communication (IEC). To date,
coordination of these activities in the planning phase has been a function
of the IEC Comittee which includes administrators of various IEC projects
and a representative from POPCOM. In the operations Division of POPCOM,
three project officers have been responsible for monitoring projects of
participating agencies which are engaged in IEC.
It is now essential to establish ar IEC Division of POPCOM for the
following reasons:
1.   Review on-going projects in the light of a total program.
2.   Respond to POPCOM's Planning Division's call for an integrated
IEC component supportive of the total program.
3.   Respond to the need to attune IEC activities to local conditions.
BACKGROUND AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
1.1       Justification for the Project
1.1.1     The intensification and reorganization of national development
efforts recently directed by the President has as one of its consequences
the issuance of Presidential Decree No. 79 strengthening the Commission on
Population (POPCOM). This made it imperative to review, and, where necessary,
to reinforce POPCOM's resources.
1.1.2     POPCOM has the total responsibility of planning and coordinating
population activities and integrating these with the national development
plan. To reinforce these functions, POPCOTM! has recently created eleven (11)
regional offices and appointed a Regional Officer in Charge (ROIC) for each
region.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 14
1.1.3     Many of the recent and proposed program activities are directly
concerned with or relate to Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
on population.  To date,.coordination of these.activities in the planning
phase has been the.function of an IEC Committee which includes administrators
of various IEC projects and a-representative from POPCOM. In the Operations
Division of POPCOM, three project officers have been responsible for moni-
toring projects of participating agencies which are engaged in IEC.
1.1.4     It.is.now.essential..to establish an IEC Division of POPCOM for the
following reasons:
1.   In.general, IEC projects have been developed independently of
each other, and there.is. an urgent need to review on-going
projects in the light of a total. program.
2.   Development by POPCONI's Planning Division of a comprehensive
population strategy and program will call for an integrated
IEC component supportive of the total program.
3.   Planning of IEC projects has been largely city-based, causing
problems-in the -inplementation of activities which are attuned
to local conditions. What is.needed is grass roots research,
evaluatiom.:of.local resources, and management.of these
resources. Establishment of an IEC Division at POPCOM with
regional extensions makes thisrfeasible.
1.2       Institutional Framework
1.2.1     The national cooperating agency for the project is the Commission
on Population.
1.2.2     The project involves the creation of an Information,. Education and
Communication Division of POPCOM.
1.2.3     The.IEC Division will-have a central office within POPCOM and an
extension of this Office in the eleven (11) regional offices of POPCOM.
1.2.4     The functions of -the IEC Division include the identification of
TEC long term and short: term policy, and, long term and short term objectives
Lo fulfill that policy. The central office will be responsible for identi-
fying the needs.and problems of the Population Program in terms of IEC
support activities; harnessing resources which-are supportive of Population
IEC on.the national level suchas* agencies engaged in IEC research, evaluation,
materials development and distribution; dissemination of relevant IEC resource
materials such as research findings, reports, articles, etc. to individuals,
groups, or agencies-concerned., management of an IEC equipment bank (audio-
visuals and supplies); monitor the agencies participating with POPCOM in the
implementation of Population IEC activities on the national level through



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 14
their central offices in Greater Manila; ensure minimum overlapping of such
activities; identify which activities; are working toward the specificed
objectives and which are not; determine how those activities which are not
working toward the objectives can be re-directed to do so; identify what
additional Population IEC activities and resources are needed to completely
fulfill the objectives.
1.2.5     The IEC regional offices which are extensions of the IEC Central
Office in the region will be responsible for harnessing the resources
(possibly on a contract basis) of the region which are supportive of Po-
pulation IEC, i.e., agencies engaged in research, evaluation, materials
development and distribution through their offices in the region; seek the
support of national development programs operating in the reion; monitoring
the activities of agencies which are engaged in the implementation of Popula-
tion IEC in the region; management of an IEC equipment bank for the region;
attunining all IEC activities in the region to the identified needs and
problems; and ensuring minimum overlapping among such activities.
1.2.6     The IEC division will be headed by an Associate Director.  The
Associate Director will be assisted by four Project Officers, one for each
of the major areas in IEC, namely: Public Information, In-and-Out-of-School
Education, Clinic and Health Related Education, and Materials Development and
Distribution. Each individual Project Officer mentioned will have an assist-
ant. All the above personnel will be in the central office of the IEC
Division. There will be one IEC Regional Officer and one IEC Production/
DJistribution Officer in the IEC Regional Offices.
1.2.7     The Associate Director will be directly responsible to the
Executive Director for all IEC projects. The IEC central staff, especially
the Project Officers, will work in the closest possible consultation with the
Planning Division Division which has over-all responsibility for defining
POPCOM's total program and strategy, and with the other Divisions as necessary.
!,ore specifically, the contact point between the Divisions is the Planning
Officer for IEC in the Planning Division.
1.2.8     The IEC regional staff will be directly responsible to the
Regional-Officer-in-Charge. The functions of the IEC regional staff include
monitoring population IFC activities in the region; redesigning and formu-
lating new projects in the context of the changing needs of the program to
be submitted to the Associate Director of the IEC Division copy furnish the
l.xectitive Director, Deputy Executive Director and all other Associate
D)irectors for review prior to implementation.
1.2.9     To assist the development of this new division, funds are
requested for:
- Initial financing of the salaries and support costs of the staff
in both the central and regional units.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 14
- Internal travel and per diem of all staff.
- Production/distribution budget for central office and regional
offices.
- National and International consultancies.
- Equipment. 
- Miscellaneous project component.
1.3       Provision for Government Follow-Up
1.3.1     UNFPA assistance is requested for a period of three years to cover
costs indicated above. There will be a gradual phasing out of UNFPA assist-
ance for recurrent salary costs during the three year period of the project.
The Commission on Population undertakes responsibility for all recurrent
costs from the date of UNFPA s termination of assistance.
1.4       Other Related Activities
1.4.1     POPCOM is in the process of forwarding a proposal to the Japanese
Family Planning Cooperating Survey Mission for audio-visual equipment and
supplies. This equipment will chiefly be given to POPCOM. The equipment is
to be considered an equipment bank for the central and regional offices of
POPCOM. The equipment will be loaned out to various departments or organi-
zations doing IEC work. The required functions in the management of an
equipment bank at the central office level will be the responsibility of
the Program Officer for Materials Development and Distribution. Maintenance
of the equipment, i.e., storage and repair, will be the responsibility of
the Logistics Division. At the regional level, management and maintenance
of the equipment bank will be the responsibility of the Production/Distribution
Officer.
1.5       Future UNFPA Assistance
None envisaged at this time.
2.                      OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
2.1       To develop a Division in POPCOM which can more efficiently and
systematically monitor the existing IEC and related activities.
2.2       To develop a Division within POPCOM that will have the capability
to coordinate existing IEC projects through the central and regional offices
of the agencies involved, to provide flexibility for such projects within
the context of a changing program.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 14
2.3       To develop a Division of POPCOM which has the ability to identify
IEC needs of the population program on a national as well as a regional
level in terms of mass media support, field extension, and IEC training.
2.4       To develop a Division of POPCOM which has the capability to orga-
nize and manage resources in Greater Manila and other regional levels which
are supportive of IEC in the field of population to meet its objectives.
2.5       To develop a Division within POPCOM that can generate and review
new project proposals in consultation with all substantive Divisions based
on identified needs.
2.6       To develop a Division of POPCOM which can assist the Commission
in drawing realistic objectives and systematic plans for achieving them in
the field of Population IEC activities.
2.7       To develop a Division of POPCOM which can assist the Commission
in planning an integrated IEC program that is derived from the grass roots.
This will be made possible through the creation of IEC offices in the
eleven (11) regions as an extension of the IEC central office in POPCOM.
3.                              WORXPLAN
3.1       Description of Project Activities
3.1.1     Recruitment of Staff
The central office staff shall be recruited by the Executive
Director of POPCOM.
3.1.2     The central office staff will approve the recruitment of the
staff for all the regional offices. The regional staff should ideally, but
not necessarily, be from the region for which they will work.
3.2       Training of Staff
3.2.1     An Important element of the project is the continuous in-service
training of all members of staff, within POPCOM and by arrangement with other
national institutions as appropriate.
3.2.2     In addition, international fellowships and study tours for the
overseas training of key staff members will be provided for.
3.3       Survey of Resources
3.3.1     After the recruitment of the central and regional staff, the
central office staff, in the first month, will review existing IEC activities
including interpersonal communication, research, media production and distri-
bution facilities. The central office staff will first collect all available



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 14
information concerning such activities from the Planning Division,-.the University
of the Philippines Institute of Mass Communications, and the National Media
Production Center (NMPC) who have previously conducted surveys of existing
IEC activities and resources. When this is done, this inventory list will
be transmitted to the various IEC regional officers who will be expected to
review on their own all existing regional UEC activities. These. two acti-
vities when synthesized will result in a national overview of IEC resources.
3.3.2     After the completion of the survey in all the regions, all IEC
officers will have a central meeting to determine the possible cross-
utilization of resources.
3.4       Continuing Operation
3.4.1     Each regions' staff shall submit to the Central Office all the data
from the survey as.well as their workplan which, will be utilized in the
formulation of the national plan.
3.4.2     The plans and objectives shall be continually adapted ia the
.-nntnrp,  of rhp rhaneine- needR nf t:he vroarmn in te-r of Ponulation IEC
support activities.
3.4.3     This continual revision of plans and activities must be done in
the closest possible consultation with. all substantive Divisions.
3.5       Consultancies
3.5.1     The projec.t provides for national and international consultancies.
It is expected that these consultancies will be used to provide on-the-job
training where necessary; provide technical assistance in reviewing new
plans and any other substantive needs the division may require.
4.                     DESCRIPTION OF UNFPA INPUTS
4.1       Assignment of National and International Staff
Nine (9) man/months of international consultancy are provided for. In
addition, the budgeted figures for- workshops on population. and development
include the assistance of international authorities on the relevant subjects.
4.1.2     Consultancy services will be requested as needed, and from the
appropriate institutions. International consultants will be recruited either
by the appropriate UN specialized agency where the government has no parti-
cular individual in mind, or by UNFPA headquarters, on a UNDP contract where
a specific individual is requested.



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 14
4.1.3     National staff posts are shown in the budget.  All staff posts
will be funded fully by UNFPA in the first year, then 70% UNFPA, 30%
Government in the second year, and 30% UNFPA, 70% Government in the third
year.
4.1.4     The nature of the national staff posts are described in Appendix II.
4.2       Provision of Sub-contractual Services
4.2.1     The lump sum of $171,000 for production and distribution of
materials may be used for sub-contracts to other national institutions where
appropriate.
4.3       Training Provisions
4.3.1     An important element of the project is the continuous in-service
training of all members of staff, within POPCOM and by arrangement with
other national institutions as appropriate.
4.3.2     In addition, a total of 36 man/months of international fellowships
for overseas training of key staff members if provided for. A total of 12
man/months of study tours is also included.
4.4       Equipment
The lump sum of $25,610 is provided for non-expendable and expendable
equipment.
4.5      Miscellaneous Provisions
The lump sum of $35,100 includes provisions for the Miscellaneous Component
for the maintenance of equipment, per diem and transportation of central and
regional office personnel and communications services.
5.                  DESCRIPTION OF GOVERNNfENT INPUTS
5.1       The IEC Division will be established within the POPCOH-I.  The
national staff of the Commission under government funding will be available
for whatever assistance is necessary for the project.
5.2       The IEC Division will be accommodated in the premises of POPCOM.
5.3       Expendable supplies, equipment and other facilities of the
Commission will be made available to the IEC Division as appropriate.



WORK PLAN - BAR C(ART
i _.CI-'TION                          Fi -y                        FY '75                    FY 176.
, 1 w T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  T. 'A VI  -'    r     _a   _ A Si
liiJ A SJI IG _I t^_J IJ A S 0 iN D J ,'-AS, _ J  t    O__JFMA M
of certt-ral stafl
P.ecru!.rm of -cta,-,i.t-nal staff  tt                                  
up of regional offices           1                                                                       _
Ir.- s .iaining for central        |    _      I.
and regional staff                         - -         -                                        I
Ov c rsePs train-ing for key staff
ReVLC: of '3:iiting IEC activi-
tie.s and resowrccs
a.centcral staff's -review of
existing IEOI activities
atnd resourcesp primarily
thErough research and
survey reports
b. regional staff's review of
Cxistiiog -regional IEC
activities and resources
(entrL,ii'regional offices'
mesiting or cross-utilization
of resources
Ifl
.o.
- - - - - - - -             - - - - - - - w - -        -       .~~~~~~~~~P



l~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
{   L4i.ti : ^. 3'TT 01i   |   EY t'74                    IPY ' 75                 Y t176
tJ| J;WA 8 1.  F .: JAi   J .T A S1   1) N ; D J; F HA  J A   O  N _  F MJA M
' ,.:e;t o^ 'wwupi ain for         ii
I  ..  r.f 1'1   1i ci               - i    ,y ceitral                                                .
t f~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
,                        :   !  1   i   t  I  l   i  I  I        1   1  I       I   I~~I     I   I
1)Yei:y.eLp t of vorli-plan1 for                         I
c' i ol.] office bv regioaIJ         1I.
ie icai  ppie.va  of re.gionali .   I |
wo:.,] aiiS lT rcentral Ri,aff f    |
t  lImplewe rtation o;' workplan                                                               =
isis t Planning Division in develop-
x  Nt& s-.ipport for 
urvE.ional prorw
II  I                                                      gill~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
____  I  I                                                                      *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~



PROf)JEOT BUDGETr SHOWINIG UNFPA CONTRIBUTION
(US$ )
Total 1974-75             1975-76           1976-77
i     ,- .3ic:rF:(;- P l-?.SONNELL C:OMPONENT
i -'i t i (,%.lt   Ccv irltancy Se3rvices
( ,' pe-r annix; a)                        22, 500          7, 500       7, 500            7, 500
;-9) SJ .r ic. e .< Ur i tiotzI p- rs.onnel
(z s eZ'.-pl,neinc)tary sheat for.details)     97, 974         46, 425      35, 670            15, 879
.4)                     Component Total.              120, 474        53, 925       43, 170           23, 379
, SUBCONTRACT COMPONENT
I1-l  Prod,zction of myaterials
Ccntral Ofice                                 30,000         10, 000       10, 000            10, 000
Regional Offices ($3000/region/year)           99, 000         33, 000       33, 000.          33, 000
21%-   Distribution of raterials
C;e ',tral Office                               9, 000          3, 000        3, 000            3, 000
Rcgironal Offiecs ($1000/region/year)          33,000          11,000        11,000            11,000
29                       Component Total              171,000.        57, 000.      57, 000           57, 000
30    'T1R,INING COMPONENT
31     r i1lowships
31-01  Intcrr-xtional Fellowships                          5          1    0 
(12 nd/rn p'er year)                           38,1250        12,75:0        12,750            12,750
D   - '   '          l'rb~~
*  ,   :          ; f~~~~~~~~~~~1



Pi{.OJECT 'JDGtT SHIOWVING UNFPA CONTRIBUTION
(jS  $)
Total        1974 -75       1975-76         1976 - 77
31-02. ;'T,iy lo rs (4r/,nIyo1r)                     16,5r0         5, 500         5, 500            5, 500
,  - . .'.   1:tc r: ati:io.l,    T ra*-e'
(z t;ps  2r,'rvu/y^.r)                        24, 000        8, 000         8, 000            8, 000
V9                Coynponlent Total                  78, 750      26, 250,        26, 250           26, Z50
40     EQUIPMENT COMPONENT
4.i              -Fyjicl.hie Eqipment                  3,000        1,000         .1,000             1,000
40-2  Noie;--E;pm d;labilc Fc1uipment               22 ,610        22, 610 _
49                Coipoanent Total                   25, 610       23, 610         1, 000            1, 000
SO     MISC,ELLADlEOUS.COMPONENT
51     Rcpai s and Maintenance of Equipment            1, 500          500           500.              500
ii-99       SUi3-TOTAL                                1, 00           500            500               500
53    Sn11dry
53-01  CommYnunication Services                       3, 000        1,000          1, 000            1, QOO
53-02  Transportation & Per Diem



PROJEC' B,UDGET SHIOWING UNFPA CONTRIBUTION
(U S $ )
53-02-01    Ccl.trall Office                             4, 500         1, 500          1, 500              1, 500
r,-0(-9 05  Reicnzi Officc; @; $700reg, !yr.           23, 100         7, 700          7, 700             7, 00
5U3- iOTAL                        27,600           9,200           9, 200             9, 20(
3-9 3    Other Cost                                   3,000           1,000           1,000   _,"AX)
53.99       Stbt-'rot::                                 33, 600,       11,200          11,200            *11,230
59          Corn-poriciLt Total                         35, 100        11, 700.        11, 700            17 )
99          GRAND TOTAL                                430, 934.      172, 485.       139, 120           119, 329
OJQ
0
I-h



I'OPCOM ;E. DI!V IS1.32N_ srAFF 3UDG;ET SHOWING LTNFPA & GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
(PIhilippi ne l?csos)
T -R .aL O F FCE               FY'74-'75                FY'75-'76                  FY'76-'77
m/ni   UNFPPA   n/m  Tutal  UN'FPA   GOP   m/m   Total  UNFPA   GOP
1 A^.s 1>tn JDir,ct'r for IF.(  I/aZ    15, 000   1/12  15, 000   10, 500   4, SUC  I/12   15.000  4.500   10, 500
-1 f'roject Officers /_ p14, 000/an.  4/48    56,000   4/48   56, 000   39, 200   16, 800 4/48   56, 00.0 16,800   39, 200
4 Research Assistants @4'5, 376/                                                         .
arnum           4/48    21,504   4/48   Z1,504   15,053        6,451 4/48   21,504  6,451   15053
.SUB-TOTAL                   92, 504          92, 504   64,753   27, 751        92,504 27,751   64,753
RZGIONAL OFFICE
IECC ^&2ot-r.d Of Wccr @ 4, 6 00/
annum          11/132  105,600  11/132 105,600   73,920   31,680 11/132.105,600  31,680  73,920
lEC Regional Production                        .
Di&tribution Officer @ 167,200.   11/13Z    79, 200  11/132  79, 200   55, 440   23, 760 11/132 79, 200 ZA, 760  55. 4!40
SUB-TOTAL                   184, 800         184, 800  129, 360   55, 440      18, 800 55, 440 129. 360
i0



POPCOM IFC DIVISION STAFF BUDGET SH-IOWLNG UNFPA & GOVERNMENT CONTRLBUTION
(f4xi1lppi1tc Pesos)
FY "74-75                  FY "175-76                  FY "76-77
n-Jn UNFPA   rn/rm    Total   UNFPA    GOP  m/m  Total   UINFP A    GOP
;. I.Ier Salary
><-)j; -f-tr^-.:t ;               _            27,731     19,412   8,319        30,504   10,261   20,243
(  s , I i Uf &tald R eti ! ement
.?;. ir't1Ts                  ;6 344          /Z8,979     20, 285   8,694       31,877   10, 7Z2.  21,155
At>-i: .-d,le                 1,3S5             1,395        977     418         1,395       418   .  977
';AT.em'r.'V"i Conpeonsation  6,000             6,000      4, 200   1, 800       6,000    1, 800    4 200
SUB-TOTAL              33, 739           64, 105    44, 874  19, 231      69, 776.  23, 201   46, 575
Tot.- PI rsonnoel  st
(I,oeal Currency)           311,043           341,409    238,987 102,422       347,080  106,392  240,638
PoU:.l Personnlel Cost
(US l)ollars)                46O 425           50,957     35,670  15,287        51,803   15,879   35,924
p1erCen t;age                  100%    -       100%         70%    30%           100 %     30%        70%
: Provision for salary adjustment in accordance with an implementing Circular to.be issued by POPCOM.
.Ni'
'-A-    



APPEN DI X I
.1    PQPCO N
EXCECUTIVE DIRECTOR
DEPUIY
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ADMIINMSTT            |        INNCE  l             |   LOISTiCS
CLINIC
.|TIE!        RAINING   J   I SERVICES                P *N|  NG
s    2   .      1,         ~~~~~.1 CXgINATING   ,
1,NF JoRmvrom scHosnATID  DtV. DIPST.
RA         R rA                       RADC'W/D'IS
IEC DIVISION  - FUNCTIOMAL ORCANIZATION






ANNEX 3
Appendix II
Page 1 of 5
APPENDIX II
Job Description
CENTRAL OFFICE STAFF:
I.   Associate Director for IEC Division
1.   Be directly responsible to the Executive Director for all IEC
projects.
2.   Monitor activities of all IEC projects through the respective
Project Officers in the central offices of participating agencies
in Greater Manila.
3.   Directly coordinate plans and activities of the IEC Division
especially with the Planning Division wherein the authority and
responsibility of program planning and strategy rests, the
Training Division, the Logistics Division, and the other
divisions as necessary.
4.   Ensure that the activities of the regional IEC staff are
effectively supported from the central office.
5.   Ensure coordination and minimum overlapping of IEC activities
which are strictly regional and those which are national in
nature.
6.   Determine the priority of IEC support especially for nationally
implemented projects. This should be determined by type of
activity, i.e., research, evaluation, materials development
or distribution and what specific needs exist within each project.
7.   To review and render an opinion on new IEC projects developed
by Planning or submitted to POPCOM for consideration.
II. Project Officer for Public Information
1.   Assist the Associate Director in monitoring all national public
information projects, i.e., the promotion of family planning
through the use of mass media, through the central offices of
participating agencies in Greater Manila.
2.   Review the past and current National Family Planning Public
Information activities.



ANNEX 3
Appendix II
Page 2 o.f 5
3.   Disseminate relevant Population IEC resources materials such as
research findings, reports, articles, etc., to individuals, groups,
or agencies concerned.
4.   Identify National Family Planning Public Information activities
which through formal or informal evaluation have been effective
and determine how these activities could be improved primarily in
terms of coordination with other existing IEC activities.
5.   Assist the Associate Director in determining the priority of Public
Information activities especially for nationally imp-4emented
activities and what other new types of activities should be tried.
6.   From the above, assist the Associate Director in developing a plan
of action for Population Public Information drive in.collaboration
with the regional IEC staff and in consultation with the other
Divisions.
7.   Assist the Associate Director in tVe Review of new projects in
the area of public information.
III. Project Officer for In-and-Out-of-School Education
1.   Assist the Associate Director in mo4toring all natiopal family
planning in-and-out-of-school educational projects through the
central-offices of participating agencies in Greater Mnila.
2.   Review the past and current national family planning in-and-out-
of-school educational activities.
3.   Identify national family planning in-and-out-of-school education
activities which through formal or informal evaluation have been
effective and determine how these activities could be improved
primarily in terms of coordination with other existing IEC
activities.
4.   Assist the Associate Director in determining the priority of
Family Planning In-and-Out-of-School Education activities
especially for nationally implemented activities and what
other alternatives should be introduced.
5.   From the above, assist the Associate Director in developing a
plan of action for Population In-adn-Out-of-School .ducation
in consultation with all substantive Divisions and the
participating agencies, and prepare an approximate budget.
6.   Assist the Associate Director in the review of new IEC
projects in-school and out-of-school educational context.



ANNEX 3
Appendix II
Page 3 of 5
IV. Project Officer for Clinic and Health Related Education
1.   Assist the Associate Director in monitoring all national
projects on clinic and health related education activities
through their central offices in Greater Manila.
2.   Review the past and current national clinic and health related
education activities.
3.   Identify clinic and health related activities which through
formal or informal evaluation have been effective and determine
how these activities could be improved primarily in terms of
coordination with other existing IEC activities.
4.   Assist the Associate Director in determining the priority of
nationally implemented clinic and health related education
activities and what other alternative should be tried.
5.   From the above, assist the Associate Director in developing a
plan of action for clinic and health related education in
collaboration with the IEC regional office and in consultation
with the other Divisions.
6.   Assist the Associate Director in the review of the new projects
for clinic and health related education.
V.   Proje::t Officer for IEC Materials Development and Distribution
1.   Assist the Associate Director in monitoring all projects
involving the development and distribution of IEC materials
through the central offices of participating agencies in
Greater Manila.
2.   Review the past and current materials development and distribution
activities which through formal or informal evaluation have been
effective and determine how these activities could be improved.
3.   Identify which agencies have capacities for production of
various types of media.
4.   Review the quality of ou:put from the various production facilities,
especially those which have been producing IEC media materials
in the past in coordination with participating agencies for
materials development.
5.   Assist the Project OQfr;_ers for Public Information and In-and-Out-
of-School and Clinic   >-i.zh Related Education in determining
what type of media su?port are needed for their various activities.



ANNEX 3
Appendix II
Page 4 of 5
6.   Determine what are the distribution resources in national
projects primarily from Manila to the regions.
7.   Determine how all the resources could be best utilized to
effectively distribute existing and proposed materials-that
is to develop a distribution plan for the short term in
consultation with the Logistics Division, and all other
Divisions concerned.
S.   Ensure that all media materials including those produced in
the regions meet the standards required by the POPCOK.
9.   Assist the Associate Director in the review of new projects
or contracts for materials development and distribution.
VT. Research Assistant
1.   Assist the Project Officer in compiling, classifying, and
filing of data on IEC projects and activities under the
responsibility of that Project Officer whether it is Public
Information, In-and-Out-of-School Education, Clinic and Health
Related Education or Materials Development and Distribution.
2.   Assist the Project Officer in reviewing the past and current
IEC projects and activities under the latter's responsibility.
3.   Assist the Project Officer in synthesizing data on the national
and regional IEC projects and activities under the latter's
responsibility.
4.   Assist the Project Officer in the mapping out of any plan of
action for the IEC projects and activities under the latter's
responsibility.
REGIONAL OFFICE STAFF:
VII. IEC Regional Officer
1.   Review the past and current Population IEC activities in the region.
2.   Identify what activities in the comprehensive IEC program for
the region are not covered by on-going national projects and
formulate a plan for such activities to be submitted to the
Regional Officer-in-Charge.



ANNEX 3
Appendix II
Page 5 of 5
3.   Monitor all IEC activities in the region through the regional
offices of the implementing agencies.
4.   Re-design and formulate new plans or projects for Population
IEC in the region to be recommi.nded to the ROIC and subject
to the review and final approval of the IEC Central Office.
5.   Review the past and present IEC production/distribution
activities including the existing production and distribution
facilities in the region and study its possible utilization
for recommendation to the Associate Director.
6.   Identify the local needs of the region in terms of production
and distribution of IEC materials, and determine how these
needs could be locally met.
VIII. IEC Regional Production/Distribution Officer
1.   Assist the IEC Regional Officer in monitoring all activities
involving IEC materials development and distribution in the region.
2.   Assist the IEC Regional Officer in identifying the needs of
the region in terms of production and distribution.
3.   Manage the equipment bank of the IEC Regional Office which
will consist of audio-visual materials and supplies to ensure
that all IEC activities of the region are given maximum support.






ANNEX 4
RURAL HEALTH UNITS
Table of Contents
Page No.
A.   Introduction - Health Service Delivery  1..... 
B.   RY.U  System   ........ ............... ..........  4
C.   Project's RHU Component .........    5
Appendix 1 -   Proposed Distribution of Responsibilities
Among Workers at Three Levels for The Pri-
mary Care Level of Health Service In The
Municipality
Appendix 2 -   Definitions Of The Difficult Areas For Rural
Health Unit Staff
Chart         IBRD 8144 - Philippines Dep.-trtment
of Health Organization
Chart - April 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 16
RURAL HEALTH UNITS
A. Introduction - Health Service Delivery
1.        Health Services in the Philipoines are delivered by the Department
of Health, the Philippine Medical Care Commission, the Chartered Cities and
the Private Sector. For administrative as well as for economic reasons the
last two agents mentioned cater mainly to the health needs as they exist in
urban areas. The rural population depends for medical services mainly on the
Department of Health and more recently, on the Medical Care Commission. Al-
though actual figures are not available, it is estimated through indirect
evidence (i.e., distribution of hospital beds and health personnel) that
Government supported medical care and the private sector probably serve about
two-thirds of the total population and may be as much as one-third do not
receive any medical care. The Government is faced with the problem of trying
to provide lhealth care to a growing population among which there is a
majority who cannot afford to pay for those services. At the same time,
the country does not have sufficient resources to operate an expensive
system.
2.        The expenditures of the Central Government on health are small in
the Philippines in relation to the large number of people that need fr4e
services: they have remained at a low level of around 5% of total Central
Government expenditures, as shown below:
P Millions
Item                       FY 1967  FY 1968  FY 1969  FY 1970  FY 1971  FY 1972
Total Expenditures of
Central Government       2,531    2,943    3,611    4,054    4,429    5,009
Hlealth Expenditures           123       142      182       226       226      274
Current Expenditures        117      135       167       204      219       245
Capital Expenditures          6        7        15        22        7        29
Health as Percent of Total   4.9         4.8      5.0       5.6       5.1      5.5
The capital outlays as a proportion of the total expenditures on health are
particularlv low and as there are no adequate provisions for building and
equipment maintenance and repairs in the DOH budget, this has resulted in
very poor condition of the existing public health facilities.
3.   The DOH was reorganized in January 1973 into 16 divisions and 11 re-
gional offices, all reporting to the Secretary of Health or his Deputy
(Chart 8144). The National Family Planning Office is one of the 16 divisions.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 16
Un to Julv 1. 1973, the country xwas divided into eiaht health re-
' ions, headed by eight Pegional Health Directors.  The next level was formed
nv the Province with the Provincial Health Officer, and finally there was the
'FuniciDalitv with the PFU physician or Municipal Health Officer. After the
declaration of Mlartial Law in September, 1972, the President ordered a gradual
retionalization of the adminis :ration, and for this purpose the country was
divided into eleven regions (slhown in Map).  The process of regionalization
had to be completed by July 1, 1973, and tmder this order the DOH had to change
the number and delineation of its health regions to conform to the new divi-
sions, although the basic set-up of its regional organization remains unchanged.
The Regional Health Director, the Provincial Health Officer and the Municipal
fiealth Officer continue to be responsible for the actual delivery of health
s.ervices in their respective areas. The Municipal Health Officer reports to
the Provincial Health Officer, who in turn reports to the Regional Health
Director. Fach Regional Health Director reports directly to the Secretary of
Health.
S.        The Government health services have a two-way patient referral
system that, however, has failed to function. A patient should go first to
an RHU, from where he or she should be referred, if necessary for treatment
of complications, to a hospital (Emergency Hospital, Provincial Hospital,
Regional Hospital, Medical Center, in that order in relation to facilities
for diagnosis). The following difficulties have been encountered: 1/
(a) outnatients fail to follow instructions;
(b) the health staff fails or is unable to enforce rules;
(c) normal deliveries which should take place at home are
attended in the hospital while high-risk cases are not
referred to hospitals;
(d) patients referred to RRU's and puericulture centers after
inpatient care in hospitals often prefer to return to the
hospital's outpatient department instead;
(e) patients refuse responsibility for their referral slips,
claiming loss;
(f)  deficiencies are observed when provincial health facilities
refer to national special hospitals in Manila and Ouezon City.
6.        The study also mentions other constraints to the efficient opera-
tion of the public health services in Rizal province, which may apply with
varving degrees of intensity to the other provinces. The constraints listed
include:
1/   "Report on Medical Care Services for Rizal", prepared by a study group
with WHO assistance.



ALNEX 4
Page 3 of 16
(a) a shortage of resources (personnel, free medications,
hospital beds);
(b) a negative attitude of the populatLon toward the public
health services, people being of the opinion that waiting
time is less in private institutions, while in Government
institutions the cost of services is relatively high, drugs
received are of inferior quality, and the health staff
does not show enough concern for the welfare of patients;
(c) long distances and the lack of cheap transportation, in-
ducing people to visit health centers only when the ailment
is already in an advanced stage or when complications set in;
(d) a deficient supply system, with the consequence that health
centers are often out of drugs (as there is no efficient
feedback, health centers are often supplied with drugs that
they regard as inferior);
(e) clinic schedules follow the preferences of health staff
rather than the time available to patients, and are not
strictly observed; and
(f) lack of coordination between facilities at different levels.
7.        The Bureau of Health and Medical Services is responsible for licensing
and standardization of hospitals and other health facilities, including the
Rural Health Units (RHUs). It; annual report for FY 1972 mentions that there
are 525 hospitals under the DOH. Of these, 239 are general hospitals, with
the following distribution by size:
Number of Beds      Number of Hospitals
up to - 25              143
26- 50               52
51- 75               15
76- 100               8
101 - 200             16
Over - 200               5
Total                  239
Four of these 239 general hospitals are Medical Centers; they also include
eight regional, 60 provincial, and 167 emergency hospitals. The general
hospitals have a total of 12,250 beds; in addition to these, there are five
special hospitals with 9,450 beds and eight leprosaria with a total of 8,070
beds. There are also 37 hospitals (with 5,906 beds) under other Government



ANNEX 4
Page. 4 of 16
agencies and 449 private hospitals. with 21 ,334 beds.  This gives an-overall
ratio of 1.5 beds per 1,O00 population, which is one tenth of the.usual ratio
in developed countries and about one-third oE the-bed ratio in other develop-
ing regions of- the world.
B. RHU System
8.        The Rural Health.Units were.-created.by the Republic Act 1891 of
1953. The Act.stated that each municipality in. the Philippines would be
provided with a "Rural Health. Unit", in order to render preventive and curative'
medical services to the community. Although the- original, idea stressed the
preventive element in the services, to.be.delivered, in practice a large propor-
tion of total activities of the RMU& is the delivery of curative services.
According to the 1953 Act-the staffing of the RHU varied with the -population
size of the municipality. Eight categories of RHUs were distinguished, each
with a different staffing pattern, as followvs.
RHU                                                                   Sanitary
Category     Population      Physicians   Nurse       Midwives        Inspectors
I        leasa<than  2,000      -         -             1                1
II         2,000 -  4,999       -          1            1     or0.       1
III        5,000 -  9,999       1          1            1                1
IV        10,000.- 19,999       1          1            2                1
V         20,000 - 29,999       1          2                             12 
VT        30,000 - 39,999       2          2            2                2
Vll       40,000 - 49,999       2          2            3                3
VIII      50,000 and over       2          4            4                3
9.        There are currently about 1,500-RHUs.and-around.70% belDng to
categories IV to VII, that is,. serve a population between :10,000 and 50,000
(Table 1).
10.       In May 1973 the Minister-of Health created a.Comntttee -to draft a
decree to amend the Rural. HeaLth, Lawr 189-1. Proposed amendments- thus far call
-u. (a) seven RHU categories, which would result from. combining- categories I
and II; (b) assigning a minimum team headed by a physician to each,municipal-
ity; (c) increasing the number of staff- in municipalities with over 50,000
population; and (d) establishing an incentive payment scheme- for health
personnel assigned to remote or difficult areas.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 Of 16
C. ProJect's RHU Component
11.       An important modification which will be required in the RHU law
in order to carry out the Bank project was discussed with the Ministry of
Health by the Bank mission and agreed upon as a basis for project formulation.
It consists of the adoption of a system under which there will be only one
category of RHU (called Type "A") in municipalities with 10,000 to 50,000
population. The RHU will be located in the "poblacion" (usually the largest
barrio) and the variation of demand for 'health services would be satisfied by
a varying number of Barrio Health Stations (BHS) (each manned by a resident
midwife/community health worker) rather than by having several sizes of RHU.
Each BHS would serve about 5,000 population. The RHU would be generally staffed
by a physician, a public health nurse, a midwife and a sanitary inspector;
it would serve the immediate population of 10,000 to 15,000 and would be the
locus of program administration and supervision for health care, preventive
services and family planning. In selected RHUs, a social welfare worker (under
the Department of Social Welfare) would work in these programs with the health
team. Municipalities with 5,000 - 10,000 population will have a inaller RHU
(Type "B").
12.       The DOH also recognizes that the organization of day-to-day opera-
tions of the RHUs and the respective functions of the team members needs a
reassessment, which may result in new procedures and reassignment of functions.
An operational research team assisted by WHO experts has been recently con-
ducting a series of studies on the existing rural health services in the
Province of Rizal near Manila in order to define the actual demand for health
services and the ways through which existing resources in the public sector
have been deployed in satisfying the health requirements of the population
in rural areas. In particular, the objective of these studies is to develop
alternatives in order to rationalize the distribution of duties among the
health staff to improve performance. The team has already submitted suggest-
tions to redistribute duties in municipalities among health workers (Appendix
1 to this Annex). In November 1973, the team presented a final report, manuals
of procedures and training schemes. The Health Planning Unit of the MDH is
already developing the rural health plan along lines suggested by these studies.
13.       The Bank mission concurred with the recommendations outlined and
especially supported the concept that in order to strengthen the health services
delivery at the barrio level to introduce family planning, reoriented midwives
(who would form a new cadre of community health workers) be employed as resident
staff in satellite barrio health stations. Through the Bank project each
Regional Health Office will develop a RHU service scheme (with provision for
extension of such a scheme to a Region-wide basis). The models developed by
the Rizal study and/or other models, would be taken as a basis for service
design. This will be done with the participation of the project's Regional
Training Centers and would be related to the scheme for retraining health
workers.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 16
14.       Only 510 RHUs out of 1,454 with information available on ownership
are occupying Government owned buildings. The remaining RHUs are housed in
various places such as municipal buildings, multipurpose halls, puericulture
centers and rented premises (Table 2). The majority of the facilities are
in too poor a condition to provide sound clinical services to the clients.
The DOH has identified that 313 RHUs need new buildings and 598 need rehabili-
tation and general repairs (Table 3). The mission's work focused on project
preparation to assist with the provision of new buildings under a new system
of health delivery using Barrio Health Stations. After reviewing the informa-
tion on population coverage, staffing patterns and RHU activities, the mission
derived the following criteria for project preparation:
(a)  FHU new facilities would be provided through this project
for municipalities with 5,000 to 50,000 population in 1985
(85% of all municipalities);
(b)  Municipalities which already have a Government hospital
or will have a CHHC in the future (see para. 4.09 for plans
of Medical Care Commission) would not be eligible for a
RHU building under the project; and
(c)  The RHUs to be built through this project would be standard-
ized providing a type "A" RHU in municipalities with 10,000
to 50,000 population and a type "B" RHU building for munici-
palities with 5,000 to 10,000 population (variation of demand
for services under type "A" RHU would be satisfied by varying
the number of BHSs rather than the size of the RHU).
Tables 4 and 5 contain information pertaining to 309 REUs identified as needing
new buildings and subsequent selection of those to be included in the project.
The recruitment status of health personnel in the 309 RHUs as of mid-1973 is
included in Tables 6 and 7. Locations have been identified for 158 rural
health units to be provided with type "A" buildings and 47 RHUs with two staff
houses each and in addition, 38 RHU type "A" will also be provided with 2 staff
houses each, since they are located in "difficult" areas.
15.       About 23% of all physicians' posts and 46% of the nurses' posts in
RHUs were vacant by the end of 1972. However, employment of midwives exceeded
by 4% the legally (according to the 1953 law) required number of posts, due to
the fact that provinces and municipalities are contributing some funds to em-
ploy midwives. The recruitment status in all RHUs as of December 1972 is
given in Table 8. The sources of funding for RHU staff salaries is given
below (as of 1972):



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 16
Staff in Position
Physicians    Nurses             Midwives
Source of Fund                 Number   %   Number    Z    Number          %
National Government             1,236   93   1,163    97    2,219         75
Province                           87    7       29     2      698        23
Municipality                        1    -        7     1       49         2
Total                     1,324  100   1,199   100    2,966         100
16.       Provision of new facilities, equipment, transportation and staff
housing through this project is intended to ameliorate the problems of person-
nel recruitment. Furthermore, other measures, such as a scholarship scheme
for midwives and incentive payments for remote areas, are under study by the
GOP and will be encouraged through this project to help solve staffing pro-
blems of rural health institutions.
17.       With the adoption of the new system of health delivery through
Barrio Health Stations staffed with one resident (reoriented) midwife, the
needs for this category will increase. Table 9 presents the number of mid-
wives working in the established RHUs in 1972. According to those data there
were around 3,000 midwives working, against a legally required number of 2,841
posts. The reasons for this apparent discrepancy were explained earlier
(para. 15). However, staff needs to cover adequately the population of barrios
under a new scheme which would use Barrio Health Stations manned with a
resident (reoriented) midwife, will demand an increase of approximately 2,400
midwife/community health worker positions in the next five years. The proposed
increase has been estimated as follows:
New RIU Category    I    II    III    IV    V    VI        VII   Total
Midwives Posts       1      2      3     4     5    6        7     -
Estimated Number
of RHUs /a         50    200   500   300   200  100       100   1,450
Required Number of
Midwives /b        50    400 1,500 1,200 1,000  600       700   5,450
/a   There would be additionally about 4,500 Barrio Health Stations as
satellites of RHUs serving municipalities of between 10,000 and 50,000
population.
/b   Including midwives to be resident staff in BHS.
Considering that the MDH employs one midwife in each main center, 4,000 BHSs
could be staffed with one resident midwife each.



ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 16
Table 1: DISTRIBUTION OF RHU BY CATEGGORIES,
REGIONS, PIDLIFPINES (1972)
Region      I        II       III        IV       V        VI       VII       VIII    Total
1        6         22       35        33       22        5         1         1       125
2        7          6       25        42       21        6         2         3        12
3        -          -        8       1.1       42       31       .21        22       165
4        -          7       45        78       34       22        13        21       220
5        -          -       10        32       28       72         7        121      110
6        _10                          47       36       20         3         7       123
7                   1       17        54       22     212          8         3        .17
8        -          9      -1         51       24       12         7         3       1i7
9        2          -        7        24       26        8         4         2        72
10        -          7       59        8.4      18        2         4         2       1-6
11        -          -        1                 2        22        12         6
Total      15         52      258       509      300      162        8'        80     1,458 p/
1/ Number of RJIUs differs .according to source. DOH will be encouraged to carry out
more accurate inventory of  uxral health facilities, through this project.



ANM 4
Page 9 of 16
Table 2: DISTRIBUTION OF RHU BUILDING BY OWHEHI
BY REGION, 1972
Building Ownership
Region    No. of                      Hun,    Multi-
Reo     Owned    P. C.  Bldg.  Hall R1ted   Total
-            -     ,         -         -                        _
1        125       65      45       12-      2          2     126
2        112      49        39      20    .1            4     113
3       165        30     112       29      25          3    199
4        220       92       66       43      39         8     248
5       110       46       32       17       4         9      St1
6        123      21        65      27        6         4     123
7        117       57      41        13       9         1     121
8       147       13       97       10      12          5    1373
9        72       41        1         5       1         -      48
xc     -176       105       28        16       3        13    166*
11        91       51       18        7       10        2       88
TCT4L     1,458     570       544      199     112    .51- 1,476
Difference not stated in official survey report.



ANNEX 4
Pa&e 10 of 16
Table 3.  DI5TBIBUGI  1                   RE;MQM NT OF RU - 1972
RHU.s With
Dil.apidsted   }1e For           RiUs With        RHUS With-
& R anted     Rahdil.it&tion    FAL2j             out Fdmly        P.HU9       RUU
Building      & Onrail a""r   Plming              Flanniga         Needing     Needing
Needing Now   & Nedang F?        Needing FamilUy  Needing Family  Water        Toilet
Regi6n    RHU Buildinr     .                         Annex   Mann   Anex  Facilities  Facilities -
1             31             142                23                10           20           5
2             34             54                 30                6            20         25
3             21             63                 10                -                       U l.
4             54             86                 12                 1            7          7
5             32             34                 24                 9            6         12
6             31             53                 21                 4            5          U
7              4             52                 45                28            6         35
8             29             52                 26                9             -         64
9             17             31                  8                 2            -         29
10             45              85                13                 _            2          78
11            X15             .16               ,U                - 6            6         72
Total         313            598                22h                75           76        3149



ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 16
Table 4: DISTRIBUTION OF 309 I/ RURAL JEALTH UNITS IDENTIFIED BY TBE
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AS NEEDING NEW BUILDINGS
REUIs According to Pomulation by 1983
Total              LeM3 tb      5,X00 -   10,000 -   Over
Region     RHJ      Total   *5000           10,000    50,000     50,000
1         125       31           8           5          17         1
2         112       34           2           7          24         1
3         165       21           -            1         18          2
4         220        53          1           6          37          9
5         110        30          -            3         21         6
6         123       31           -            3         26          2
7         117        4           -           _           3         1
8         147       29           2           4          21         2
9          72       17           1                      15         1
10         176        44          1          12          27         4
11          91       15           -           _          13 2/       2
Total    1,b58       309         15           41        222         31
%                  (100.0)     (4.9)        (13.3)    (71.8)    (10.0)
1/ There were 313 RIUs on the original list. 4 RHUs are not included in the table due
to following reason; one miscount, 2 duplication and one is city.
2/ Including one municipality population not specified.



Table 5: REVIEW RESULTS OF 309 RHUs REQUIRING NEW BUILDINGS
PROPOSED BY THE DOH
Reason For Non-Eligibility
Population Outside
Eligible            Government Hospital  CHHC (exiss   5,000 to 50,000
Region      Total Reviewed      Type A   Type B   Total  (exists or planned)   or planned)    People Range               Total
1             31               11      5        16                5                 2                 8                15
2             3h               16       7       23                6                 2                 3                 U
3             21               10       1       11                2                 3                 5                10
1   53          26       9       35                5                 2          .      U1                18
30              17       3       20                2                 2                  6                10
;;            31               14      3        17               12                 -                 2                14
7              4                3      -         3                --                1                 -                  1
29              14       4       18                 5                2                  4                U
9             17               13       -       13                1.                2                 1                  4
10             44               21      15       36                1                 3                  4                 8
11             15               12       1       13                -                 _                  2                 2
Ts-.;L                 309              157      48      205                39               19                46               1X
1/  Including one municipality population not specified.
0q
0



Table 6: RECRUITMENT STATUS OF STAFF IN 309 RHUs
BY CATEGORY OF RHU
(as of Mid-1973)
Physician                         Nurse                           Midwife
Category   ~     jRe   red    Employed         R            Employed      %    ReEmployed                %
Category  rAi)  (B)       (B/A        jrAi        (BL       (B/A)   eclBiAe
1                                                           1                   4                       0.0
2                                               19          6        31.6      19            13        68.4
81           39      48.1       81         29         35.8      81           68         84.0
..?81        39       1        100         36         36.o    10              B1        77.9
L             102           83      81.4       102         70        68.6     204           166        81.3
5              55           50      90.9       110         45        40.9     112           111        99.1
6              18           29      60.4        48         28        58.3      48            71       147.9
7              18            8       44.4       18          6        33.3       26           15        57.7
.:'-'2.l        223          170      76.2       278        lh9        53.6     390           363        93.1-
8              26           13      50.0        52         17        32.7      52            44        84.6
TCTAL            330          222      67.3       430        202        470 546               488         89e14
0



ANNEX 4
Page 14 of 16
Table 7:   STAFFIN( OF 309 RURAL HEALTH UNITS PROPOSED FOR
NEW BUILDINGS BY THE DEPARTIENT OF HEALTH
Pbysician                Nurses                 Midwives
;Tudired   ployed          Rered Employed  A    Rsquired ployed   7
Region  ll        (A) 2/   (B3 3/ (B/A)        (1)      (B)   (B/A)    (A)      (B)      (B/A)
1      31      24      20       83.3       35       30     85.7      44     40       90.9
2      314     32      23       71.9       40       22     55.0     55      52       94.5
3      21      25      27      108.0       33       18     54.5     43      55      127.9
4      53      59       43      72.9       77       38     49.4     96      99      103.1
5      30      41      29       70.7       59       29     49.2     67      51       76.1
6      31      37      28       75.7        49      29     59.2     64      70      109.4
7       4       6        4      66.7        6       4      66.7     10       5       50.0
8      29      31      22       71.0       38      11      28.9     51      45       88.2
9      17      15       8       53.3       18        8     414.     23      22       95.7
10      44      44       9       20.5       51       5       9.8     66      24       36.4
U       14  1/  16       9       56.3       24        8     33.3     27      25       92.6
Total   308 11 330       222       67.3       430     202     47.0    546    488        89.4
1/ Exclude one municipality population not specified.
2i Required by Republic Act No. 1891.
S/ Employed as of December 1972.
Source: The Department of Health.



Table 8: STAFFING OF RHUs BY PaEION AS OF DEC        1972
FhySwcians                       Nurses
IRe uired    Employed           Reid         Employed             Required    Employed,!
Region    EHU      _             (B)                                         (B/A)                 .(B)       (B/A)
1        125        104          89       85.5      156            116      74.4       196          208     106.1
2       112         110          93       84.5      143             96      67.2       194          204     105.1
3        165        239          232      97.1      325            205      63.1       387          563     1145
411     220         269          232      86.2      352            178      50.6       443          h81     108.6
5        110        152          109      71.7      202            108      53.5       242          221      91.3
6        123        153          118      77.1      203            127      62.6       253          287    ]13-.4
I       117        139          129      92.8      168            118       70.2       226          225      99.6
3        147       162           110     68.0       201             79      3903       260          223      85.8
Q         72        83            41      49.14     103             32      31.3       1X1          113      80.
10        176       177           105      59.3      206             79      3083       294          216      73,5
11         91        131           66      50.14     170             61      35.9       205          225     109.8
"L'CO AL    1,458    1,719        1,324      77.0    2s229          1J199      53.8     21,841       2,966     104.4
Source:  Department of Health, Manila Philippines.
C
0'



ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 16
Table 9: STAFFPIG OF MIDhIVES IN THE ES-ABLISH3D RURAL HEALTH UNITS
AS OF DECEMEER 1972. BY REGION
Rquired by  bkployed          Percentage
Regio            the Act (A)   in 1972         (B/A)
1                 296             208            106.1
2                 194             204            105.1
3                 387             563            145.5
4                 U3              481            108.6
5                 242              221            91.3
6                 253             287            113.4
7                 226             225             99.t
8                 260             223             85.8
. 5                ihi             113             80.1
10                 294             216              73.5
11                 205              225           109.8
Total             2,81.           2,966            104.4
Sources Depzrtment of Health, 1973



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 1
Proposed Distribution of Responsibilities Among Workers at Three Levels for
the Primary Care Level of HeiCth Service in the Municipality
1.   First level worker (FLW) (re-oriented midwife, later community
health worker, preferably a female coming from conmunity) would
be In charge of services at the barrio level providing the
following services:
(a) Maternal and child health services including immunizations;
will refer all non-normal and high risk conditions up.
(b)  Family planning (except complicated cases, first visit for
pill and IUD insertion).
(c) Medical care for simple conditions, follow-up of clinic
conditions and first aid according to standing orders.
(d) Simple activities in sanitation - problems to be referred
to sanitarian.
(e) Assist in registration of vital events, recording and
reporting.
(f) Public health nursing and health education would form
part of the above items.
The FLW would carry out the above activities according to a
programmed approach. All problems which the FLW cannot handle would be
referred to next level.
2.   Second level worker (SLW) will carry out the major part of
their activities on the barrio level, being based at the RHU.
(a) Second level worker A - retrained public health nurse -
future community health nurse.
(i)  Family planning - IUD insertion, first visit
for pill, problem cases.
(ii) Antenatal, delivery, postnatal and child health
services on referral from FLW.
(iii) Simple laboratory examinations at RHU level.



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 2
(iv)  organization and supervision of the work of-the
first Level worker including programming of
activities-and monitoring of health situationa
Problems beyond the capacity of SLW-A to be
referred to Third level Worker (TLW).
(b) Second level worker B (sanitarian, professional)
(i) Inspection and action on all problems in
environmental sanitation as referred from
FLW'a inspection and action on positive wells
and water sources.
(ii)  Monitoring of sanitary situation in the barrios
on a&methodical basis.
(ili) Technical guidance-on construction of wells,
garbage disposal systems, latrines, including.
motivational programmes,.
(iv)  Training of foodhandlers, food operators.
(v)  Insect.and rodent control.
(c)  Third level worker (re-trained physican) (TLW)
(i)  The third leveL health- worker will not be studied
in detail in the test-tun,. since his/her future role
will depend on the effects of the redistribution of
tasks and the redirection of existing demand.
(ii)  It is envisaged that he/she will be responsible for
identifying public health problem areas, assessing and
selecting the necessary public health services and
organizing the public health iuterventiou in the most
efficient way, according to public health principles
and relevant public health laws and regulations and
will thus have overall responsibility for the admin-
istration, monitoring and activities of health services
in his area, the municipality. He would deal with all
cases referred to him from FLW and SLW and be provided
with the- necessary facilities and equipment to deal
with cases like:
(a)  acute cases needing short-term care
(b)  cases needing expert nursing care
(c)  abnormal deliveries, toxaemias (mild), abortions



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 3
(d) minor accidents needing special care
(e) rehydration
(f) emergency cases before transfer to hospital
(g) patients who need daily medical supervision and care.
The TLW will have a FLW and a clerk/driver to carry out basic
activities in the "poblacion" and assist the TLW in certain tasks.






ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 2
Definitions of the Difficult Areas for Rural Health Unit Staff
1.        Island municipalities where transport facilities to the main land
are not regular and the sole provider of health care to the popula-
tion is the RHU.
2.        Public utilities are not adequate to meet the needs of the population.
3.        Inadequacy or absence of social and welfare facilities as secondary
schools, recreation and religious centers, and etc.
4.        The locality is frequented by disaster as typhoons and floods.
5.        Presence of special disease problems as Filaria, Schistosomiasis
and Malaria in epidemic proportion.
6.        Poor peace and order situation.
7.        Inaccessibility of more than 30% of the barrios of the municipality
by either land or water transport.






PHILIPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
ORGANIZATION CHART  APRIL 1973
SECRETARY
UNDERSECRETARY
PIANNING                 FINANC IAL &            ADMINISTRATIVE                        DISEASE                   OFFICE OF
|  SERVICE  l      l   MANAGEMENT   |                                              INTELLIGENCE             HEALTH EDUCATION &
SERVICE                                      SERVICEERVICECONTROL                                     PERSONNEL TRAINING
BUREAU Of DENTAL           BUREAU OF HEALTH &                       BUREAU OF                BUREAU OF RESEARCH
HEALTH SERVICE              MEDICAL SERVICE                       QUARANTINE                  & LABORATORIES
MC H
|ADVISOR I
*-000 & DRUG            PHILIPPINE               MALARIA                NATIONAL                        NATIONAL                NATIONAL            SPECIAL HOSPITALS &
ADMINISTRATION          MEDICAL CARE             ERADICATION          FAMILY PLANNING                     NUTRITION               SCHiSTO-               JOSE REYES
COMMISSION                SERVICE                OFFICE                         PROGRAM                  MIASIS             MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
REGIONAL OFFICES
World Bank 8144






ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
MIDWIFERY EDUCATION
A. Introduction
1.        According to the Philippine Midwifery Law (Republic Act 2644) a
midwife is a person who performs services requiring an understanding of the
Drinciples and applications of procedures and techniques for the care of
normal childbearing women from the beginning of pregnancy until the end of
puerperium and the care of their normal infants during the neonatal period.
2.        Midwifery training in the Philippines consists of an 18-month course
at a midwiferv school, where students having completed secondary education
are admitted. Since the majority of the midwifery schools are private, the
qualitv of training is controlled through a separate examination instituted
in 1902, taken by the Board of Examiners for Midwives, which consists of
three members amnointed by the President. The current Board is chaired by an
obstetrician and the other members are two nurse-midwives. The Board is
authorized to issue, suspend, revoke and reissue registration for the practice
of midwifery. Graduates who pass are licensed to practice midwifery and are
called "registered midwives."  Graduate Nurses can also register as midwives
by presenting evidence of having attended at least 20 deliveries, without
havinR to pass the Board examination. They are called "Nurse-Midwives."
3.        There are no reliable estimates of the total number of midwives in
the country. There may be 8,000 midwives at present, with 3,500 working for
the DOH, probably 1,000 working in the private sector, and about 5,500 un-
accounted for, i.e., either not working, or not working in jobs for which a
midwif ery education is required.
4.        In addition to the midwives there are an unknown number of so-called
hilots, the traditional birth attendants, in the country. Outside of the
urban areas there may be one hilot per 500 to 1,000 population. They are
considered influential women in their communities. Over 40% of the deliver-
ies in the country are still conducted by these traditional birth attendants.
During the past 17 years nearly 9,000 of them have been trained in courses
conducted at puericulture centers. Since the increase of services by R1HU per-
sonnel to undertake the functions now being performed by the hilots will take
several years, it is recognized that training and supervision of the tradi-
tional birth attendant will need to continue until such time when trained
personnel can be made available and is accepted by the public. Midwives and
nurses from RHUs are reportedly acquainted with most of the hilots in their
respective areas and can provide supervision.
Midwiferv Education
5.        As of early 1973, there were 29 private and 3 government midwifery
schools in the Philippines. The private midwifery schools are under .the
Jurisdiction of the Department of Education and the Government's midwifery



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
schools function under the Department of Health. The Midwifery Act stipulates
thnt a midwriferv school should be associated with a hospital with at least 50
maternity beds. The minimum faculty student ratio is 1:12, the minimum fac-
ultv maternity bed ratio is 1:10. The school can onlv graduate its students
after they have attended 18 months of the midwifery course and have performed
at least 20 deliveries in the hospital and five in domiciliary service. In
fulfillment of the requirements for Board examination, the midwifery course
should include the following subjects: introduction to general anatomy and
physiology, principles of bacteriology, obstetrics, midwifery procedures
including personal hygiene and the care of patients' environment, delivery
room technique, nursery technique and infant care and feeding ethics,
nutrition, domiciliary midwifery, community hygiene and first aid, and
mothercraft.
6.        Full secondary schooling is a prerequisite for entry into the mid-
wifery training. However, Board examinations cannot be taken until the ap-
plicant is 21 years of age. Since the midwifery course lasts 18 months, this
frequently leaves a margin of one to two years during which the new unregis-
tered eraduate must seek some other kind of employment. Jobs taken during
this waiting period are as nursing attendant, nanny in a private family, or a
job outside of the health field. There are reportedly cases where young
graduates from midwifery schools offer their services free and pay their own
commuting and meal expenses throughout this waiting period with the expecta-
tion of being hired once they are registered. In order to avoid these prob-
lems, the government midwifery schools require that applicants be 20 years of
age. Lowering of the age limit for Board examinations to 18 years would be
a more direct solution to the problem of losing trained midwives to other
activities.
7.        The training program in midwifery is terminal, meaning that no ad-
vanced courses are offered, and no credits are accrued for nursing studies.
Currentlv, an extension of the training program of three to four semesters is
being studied. Some consider this extension necessary for the introduction
of family planning into the curriculum, upgrading of the student's abilities
in language and other basic fields. However, the mission considered that
this extension is not necessary since it would not contribute to prepare her
better for Government service, but rather for working in developed countries,
where they eventually may emigrate. The latter reason is of interest to the
private schools that can in this way make their training more attractive to
prospective students, but is of course, contrary to the national interest of
training and retaining health personnel. Midwifery training programs pay
more attention to numbers than quality. Students are a source of income to
the training hospital, since they are used to render services. The cost of
training is estimated at P 4,000 - 5,000 in a Government school and up to
P 8,000 in a private one.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 9
B. The Government Midwifery Schools
8.        The last substantial technical and material assistance received by
the Government midwifery schools dates back to a WHO/UNICEF project umder-
taken in the years 1954-58, which included fellowships to faculty, teaching
materials, books and vehicles. The audiovisual materials and the vehicles
have since deteriorated and the library books are mostly outdated. WHO has
continued to render periodical technical assistance and UNICEF has helped
with equipment for the main clinical experience area of the Fabella Memorial
Hospital. However, this assistance has not been sufficient for up-keeping
and up-grading of the training facilities. In April 1973 a WHO sponsored
Workshop on Population Dynamics and Family Health was carried out with nurses
and midwives from midwifery schools as participants. Later this year WHO will
sponsor a regional workshop on integration of family planning in nursing and
midwifery curricula. WHO/UPRO also plans to render short-term consultant
services in 1975 to study the nursing education system in the Philippines
(including midwifery).
9.        There are three government midwifery schools, the Fabella Midwifery
School in Manila, the Cebu Midwifery School in Cebu, and the Butuam Midwifery
School in Butuam, Mindanao.
10.       The largest of the three government midwifery schools is the Fabella
Midwifery School which was opened in 1922, ard by the end of 1969 had grad-
uated nearly 3,500 students. It attracts sone 700-800 applicants per semes-
ter of whom some 100-120 are admitted. The attrition rate is reported at
about 10%, producing around 200 graduates per year.
11.       Faculty are assigned by the Department of Health.  The Director of
the school is an obstetrician and the faculty is further formed by 11 nurses
and nurse-midwives, and 15 midwives. In addition, there is a part-time fac-
ulty of four physicians. Of the 15 midwives only two have classroom duties.
Thus the faculty student ratio of 1:12 as required by the Midwifery Act is
only reached in the clinical field. The classroom ratio is much higher, but
may nevertheless be considered pedagogically acceptable, except where labora-
tory practice is involved. The ratio for clinical experience is inadequate
and does not allow for the close supervision needed for acquiring skills in
prenatal care and home visits; it is even more inadequate in the case of the
performance of deliveries, being very far from the tutorial relationships
needed for this type of training.
12.       The present curriculum makes no reference to family planning.  How-
ever, a proposed curriculum has been forwarded to the Board of Examiners, in
which family planning is presented as a separate subject.
13.       The Fabella Midwifery School belongs to the Fabella Memorial Hos-
pital, that regards the school as a source of income; the school is located
in the Fabella Hospital compound. It was built in 1958, and although.main-
tained very clean, it has deteriorated for lack of repairs. Physical facili-
ties are very limited for students and faculty members, and the situation is



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
algrevated by the fact that the hospital has spilled over into school space.
Librarv facilities at hoth the school and the hospital are inadequate in
srace, furnishinsys and holdings.  The books are outdated by at least a decade,
limited in number, and only a few are related to the Philippines. Neither
library can afford subscription to periodicals. The student dormitory, also
located on the hospital grounds, is overcrowded, with two-layer bunks crammed
into all available space and lining hallways, especially on the second floor
which has been taken over to provide rest rooms for female physicians on-call
for deliveries.
14.       The Fabella Memorial Hospital comes under the jurisdiction of the
Government and is a national specialized institution for obstetric, gynecolo-
gic and pediatric cases. In 1969 the hospital had 350 obstetric beds which
served an average of 380 patients a day, and 310 cribs. Further it had 30
gynecoloeic and 110 pediatric beds. Deliveries average 80-90 per day, and
the normal deliveries are reportedly mostly done by students. The obstetrical
and newborn services have all the shortcomings of an architecturally deteri-
orating, overcrowded urban health institution, and although the midwifery
students are witness to clean surroundings in this clinical experience area,
they are exposed to negative learninR because of the above mentioned physical
conditions.
15.       The Cebu Midwifery School comes under the jurisdiction of the De-
partment of Health, but functions in the compound of the Cebu Puericulture
Center and Maternity House, which is sustained through private funds and
patient fees. The school is financed through student fees. It has an enroll-
ment of close to 50 students per semester, who come mainly from the Visayas
and Mindoro. The school and the dormitory were constructed in 1955, and are
no longer adequate in size and condition for course needs. It has only one
classroom, seating 50, one office for faculty, and a small room which is used
as A librarv. However, the land housing all the above facilities is spacious.
16.       The program has ten full-time and five part-time faculty members.
As the salaries are low, there is a high turnover of instructors. The pre-
sent curriculum is virtually the same as the one prepared with WHO technical
assistance in 1957. Recently the public hea'th nurse instructor has intro-
duced some family planning content into the subject of public health. The
Maternity House was appended to the existing Puericulture Center in 1930.
Deliveries average 10 per day. The Mfaternity House has 75 beds.
17.       No data were available for the Butuan Midwifery School which could
not be visited by the mission.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
D. Project's Midwifery Training Component
18.       Through this project, emphasis will be placed on reorienting mid-
wives to prepare them better for the tasks that they are called upon to per-
form in the rural areas. At present, although a midwife is supposed to work
under the supervision of a nurse, in practice she often works independently
due to scarcity of graduate nurses in position. In fact, many RHUs are
headed by a midwife in the absence of a doctor or a nurse.  Recognizing the
need to find a practical solution to the scarcity of medical personnel in
many areas and in order to extend the coverage of population with health ser-
vices, the possibility of retraining and recruiting more midwives has been
discussed and agreed upon by the mission and the Government. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained from the Government to the effect that suf-
ficient midwife/coumunity health worker positions will be sanctioned so that
each barrio health station may have a resident midwife and lay family planning
motivators may be gradually replaced by midwives. There are currently 3,500
midwives working for the Government; through this project, about 2,400 mid-
wives will be recruited by the GOP during the next five years at the rate of
480 per year (and initially financed .by the Bank loan); additionally the DOH
intends to recruit other 2,600 midwives during the same period - a total
addition of 5,000 staff. All newly recruited midwives will need special
training, which will be accomplished through the program of the Regional
Training Centers (Annex 2). It will comprise a preservice course of three
months' duration for Government midwives who will thus become community
health and family planning workers. The course will include community work,
public health and family planning and will be offered to Government midwives
in lieu of the present separation between orientation and family planning
courses for RHU midwives. (See also Annex 2, para. 18 to 26). In addition,
thirty-three nurse-midwives will be selected to undergo one-year of training
in Public Health and other related fields (with fellowships provided through
this project) starting not later than September 1974. They will then be
employed as trainers in BTCs and/or as nursing supervisors in RHUs.
19.       Through this project, the following additional actions will be
supported:
(a)  The DOH Nursing Program Supervisor (MCH), the Nurse Coor-
dinator, National Family Planning Office and the Nurse
Training Coordinator (OHEPT) will be sent to undergo train-
ing as described in para. 21 (d), for 2, 3 and 5 months
respectively, starting no later than September 1974; and
(b)  The Department of Health and the Department of Education
will form a special committee, to review policy regarding
training of midwives (both by Government and private
schools with special attention to matters above mentioned
(para 7).



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
20.       As a separate development, which is highly desirable, an agree-
ment will be sought by the GOP with WHO within FY 1974/75 to undertake an
overall review of the nursing education system in the Philippines including
basic midwifery training in order to develop a system geared to serve more
directly the needs of the country and particularly, of the rural population.
D. Technical Assistance Through ProJect
21.       The project will finance technical advisory services to enable
the implementation of the midwife/community worker inservice courses at
RTCs.  It will consist of:
(a) Twelve man-months of community health and family planning
advisory services, to assist in the planning of the curricula
and program organization and to assist the 11 RHFPTCs in
organizing tutor and trainee selection, training implementation
and field experience (Terms of Refereace in Part E of this Annex);
(b) Travel, stipend and other costs for nine 5-day workshops
(3 workshops during second year of project, 3 workshops by
the end of the 3rd year, and 3 in the fifth year) for batches
of 22 instructors (66 in all) from the RTC courses at 11
Regional Training Centers; workshops yill be organized with
the assistance of the nurse-midwife consultant and other con-
sultants to the RTCs for the purpose of faculty development
and assessment of the training program;
(c)  Thirty-three fellowships of 10 months duration for nurse-
midwives from each of the 11 Regional Training Centers,
who will be in charge of the in-service course for midwives
in each Center;
(d) Three fellowships of 2, 3 and 5 months respectively for the
following nurse/midwives positions at the central level:
DOH Nursing Program Supervisor for MCH Nurse Coordinator,
National MCH/FP Project and Nurse Training Coordinator, who
operate at the national level and will render advisory serv-
ices to OHEPT.
E.  Draft Terms of Reference for Training Advisory Services
On Ccmmunity Health Training
Functions:  To advise and assist the Nurse Training Coordinator of OEPT, in _
collaboration with the Nurse Coordinator of the National MRC/YP Project and



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
the Nursing Program Supervisor of the Division of MCH, to formulate a curri-
culum for the retraining of Government midwives at the Regional Training Cen-
ters, to prepare them for work in rural areas and particularly at the barrio
level, with emphasis on public health, and family planning coounity work.
Duties and Responsibilities: (in close collaboration with the central DOE
nurse-midwife advisory staff)
(a)  Advise and assist at the DOH central level in designing a
curriculum for a retraining course for Government aidwives
and preparing syllabi for such training;
(b) Assist the faculty of the RTCs concerned with the retraining
program for midwives in establishing adequate selection and
records procedures, and in organizing the clinical and field
experiences for the trainees and a ySgtem for evaluating
their training;
Cc) Assist in determining needs for adequate instructor-student
ratios in all learning areas;
(d)  Advise the DOH and the Regional Offices on adequacy of tutor
positions at the RTCs and assist in faculty development;
(e) Assist in planning and realization of faculty meetings at
the RTCs and of final evaluation seminars;
(f)  Assist the DOH and the OHEPT in the planning, organization
and execution of evaluation workshops and national or in-
terregional meetings of faculty from RTCs midwifery re-
training courses.



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 9
F. LIST OF MIDWIFERY SCHOOLS BY REGION
REGION I.
School of Midwifery, Virgin Milagrosa Hospital, Pangasiun
REGION II.
N O N E
REGION III.
1.  School of Midwifery, Cabanatuan City Colleges, Cabanatuan City
2.    "    "      "       Virgen de los Remedios, Paupanga
3.    "    "              Yanga's Hospital, Bocaue, lulacan
REGION IV.
1. School of Midwifery, Scout Ramon V. Albano, Toudo, Manila
2.                 f "  "  Mary Chiles Hospital, Manila
3.                 t "    Clinica Arellano, Manila
4.    "    "              Abad Santos Educational Institute, Quezon City
5.    "    "              GColden Gate College, Batangas City
6.    '   "               St. Francis Xavier General Hospital, Manila
7.    "    "      "      Marian Hospital, Manila
8.    "    "              Manila Central University, Caloocan City
9.    "    "      "       Binondo Hospital, Manila
10.    "    "              Lyceum of Batangas, Capital Site, Batangas
11.    "    "              Leyba's Hospital, Quezon City
12.    "    "      "       St. Catherine's Hospital, Quezon City
13.    "Emmanuel Cooperative Hospital, Toudo, Manila
14.    "    "              J. Fabella Memorial Hospital, Manila



ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 9
REGION V.
1. School of Midwifery, St. Anthony College, Iriga City
2.            * t         Mabini Memorial Colleges, Iriga City
3.           *            Immaculate Conception Hospital, Daraga, Albay
REGION VI.
1.  School of Midwifery, Riverside General Hospital, Bacolod City
REGION VII.
1. School of Midwifery, San Vicente, Cebu City
2.    "    "       "       Cebu Maternity House, Cebu City
REGION VIII.
N O N E
REGION IX.
1. School of Midwifery, Jan S. Alano Memorial Hospital, Basilan City
REGION X.
1. School of Midwifery, Medina Hospital, Ozmi-s City
2.    "    "              Iligatj Capital Colleges, Iligan City
3.    "    "       "      North Mindanko Hospital, Brathan City
REGION XI.
1.  School of Midwifery, Mindanao Hospital, Davao City
2.    "    "       "       Doctor's Clinic and Hospital, Koronadal, South Cotabato
3.    "    it             Davao Maternity Hospital, Davao City
4.    "    "              Notre Dame Hospital, Rosary Heights, Cotabato City






-ANNETX 6
Proiect .Cost By Donor Agencv
USAID     UNFPA      IBRD       GOP        T M^
I.  Civil Works                          -         -       10.70      10.81       21.51
II.  Other Proiect Costs
Special Equipment                    -        0.12      0.68       -           0.70
Vehicles & Spare Parts               -        -         1.35       -           1.35
Technical Assistance                 -        0.1)6     0.57       -           0.63
Incremental Recurrent Cost          0.51      0.35      2.65       3.90        7.41
Project Construction Unit                    . -        0.02       0.03        0.05
Subtotal                          0.51      0.43      5.27       3.93       10.14
III. Contingencies
Physical                             -        -         0.76       1.20        1.96
Price                              -8.27                            .12       16.39 
Subtotal                           -        -         9.03       9.32       18.35
Total                               0.51      0.43    25.00       24.06       50.00
% ef Total                           1%        1%       50%        48%         100%
Total Project Cost Breakdown
By Source of Financing and
Local and Foreign Exchange Components
Local        Foreign      . Total
I. IBRD Participation
Program Administration                    0.01           0.14          0.15
Services                                 26.75          10.67         37.42
Training                                  6.41           3.99         10.40
Health Statistics                         0.33           0.14          0.47
Evaluation and Research                   0.18           0.33         0.51
Project Construction Unit                 0.06                         0.06
Total                                  33.74          15.27        49.01
II.  UNFPA Particioation                       0.36
IEC                                       0.36           0.12         0.48
Total                                   0.36           0.12         0.48
Ill.  LISAID Participation
Program Administration                    0.34           -            0.34
Training                                  0.17           -             0.17
Total                                   0.51           -            0.51
TOTAL                                    34.61          15.39         50.00
Financing Plan
UISAID                                     0.51           -             0.51
UNFT'A                                    .0.31           0.12          0.43
IBRD                                       9.73          15.27         25.00
GOP                                       24.06           -            24.06
TOTAI.                                    34.61          15.39         50.00






ANNEX 7
Illustrative Terms of Reference For
Facilities Evaluation Study
I. *The GOP and the Bank have agreed that it would be desirable to
conduct a functional evaluation of a sample of project facilities after they
have been in operation for some time. This evaluation would be important
for the design of facilities as part of subsequent expansion of the rural
health system. The main goal of the evaluation study is to relate both
capital costs and operational costs (salaries, materials, maintenance and
replacements) to: (a) staff member and work-time; (b) facilities used for
various functions; and (c) the amount of services delivered (health care,
family planning, health education, inservice training, etc.).
2.         The study will also assess whether the facilities provided do in
practice constitute optimal tools for the functions to be performed within
them.
3.         The design of the study including the sample design, questionnaires,
checklists and timetable, would require expertise in architecture, health
planning on the utilization of facilities. The end-product would be a report
on the utilization of facilities containing a statistical analysis accompanied
by narrative commentary and a final evaluation and recommendations.
4.         The field work would be carried out by a team of architect/health
planners, financial analyst (or statistician with experience in budgeting
and accounting) and public health specialists with experience in community
health and family planning programs).
5.         The statistical information would need to be gathered at various
administrative levels. Other information would be obtained through interviews
with local staff and actual observation of activities.
6.         The study will require careful preparation both by the Government
and the Bank and would be performed by consultants with a thorough experience
of planning and evaluation of health facilities. The consultants would be
appointed and breifed by the Government with Bank assistance and approval
concerning their qualifications. Loan funds have been provided for this
study.
7.         Specific questions to be included in the terms of reference of
the consultants shall be agreed among the GOP and the Bank and will be
further discussed with the consultants at the time of their appointment.
Consultants will be selected by the GOP and approved by the Bank by mid-
1976 and will be appointed to initiate the study not later than December 31,
1976.
8.         The amount of US$300,000 equivalent has been allowed in.the
project for this study and for preparation work, as required, for a future
project.  This amount is included under item F.3 in the cost table - Tech-
nical Assistance.






ANNE 8
CIVIL WORKS
Contents
PaRe No.
A.  SCHEDULE OF ACCCMKODATION ........................          I
I.  Rural Health Unit Type 'A' ...................          1
II.  Rural Health Unit Type 'B' ....................         3
III.  Regional Training Centers ....................          4
B. COST ESTIMATE ....................................           7
RPU Type 'A.'...                                            7
Staff Housing             ..             ........8
RHU Type  B' ......................................         9
Regional Training Centers ........................         10
C.  LOCATIONS ........................................         11
D. ESTIMATED CUMULATIVE EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
FOR CIVIL WORKS CCVPONENTS ......................        16
E. CIVIL WORKS COST CCMPONENTS            .        .           16
Updated Civil Works Cost By Type Of Building .....         17
Percent Key For Construction and Site Work .......         18
Schedule of Expenditures:  Furniture & Equipment.          19
Schedule of Expenditures:  Professional Fees .....         20
Summary of Schedules of Expenditures for
Civil Works:  Total ............................         21
F- OUTLINE OF FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR, PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION UNIT ..............................         22
G.  OUTLINE OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PROJECT
ARCHITECT ......................................         23
H.   TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
CONSULTANTS ..........,.,.............                   25






.AN1EX 8
Page 1 of 25
A. SCHEDULE OF ACCOMI,DATION
I.   Rural Health Unit Type 'Al
Staff or                            2      Tota  Area
Space                  Capacity    No. of Units      Area m          (m )
A. Clinical services
Consult/exam.                 1           2       x        13.0           26.0
Dentist                       1           1       x        13.0    =      13.0
Treatment                     1           1       x        13.0           13.0
Recovery                      2 beds       1      x        13.0    =      13.0
B.  Ancillary services
Demonstration/lecture/
multipurpose room           25           1       x        37.5    =      37.5
Main waiting                 25            1      x         25.0    2     25.0
Botica                        1            1      x          6.5           6.5
Laboratory                    1            1      x          9.0    =      9.0
Clean supply, linen,
sterilizing                  1            1      x         9.0    =       9.0
Soiled uti ity                1            1      x          6.5           6.5
Patient toilets               1            2      x          2.5           5.0
Staff toilets and
changing                     1            2      x         5.0    =      10.0
Cleaner                       1            1      x         3.0    =       3.0
General storage               -            1      x          9.0           9.0
LINKAGES/CRITICAL LAYOUT/SERVICES
Consult/exams: one room for general health care.
one room for maternal/child health and family planming
Treatment:     to be linked to Consult/FExam rooms.
Botica:        this is a dispensary for simple medications.
Recovery to have 2 beds adjacent to treatment.
Demo/lecture for environmental sanitation, family planning, and nutrition,
including cooking demonstration. Water and gas services.
Main waiting linked to reception/records.



AIqhNEX 8
Page 2 on: 25
StAf^ or-                               Tot1 Area
Space                CapoII:_7 NOIof' Units   Area n.2        (m
C.  Admnistrat-ia-
Social.work- offi -       1-.2 1.    x              13.0.    =  13.0
Social work- storage      --         1     x       6.5 -   =    6.5
Office                      1          1      x.    9.0      =    9.0
Office                    3-4-         1      x     22.-    =   22.0
Reception/zecore d_..       1          1      x      9.0.    =    9.0
Staff room                  1          1     x.    9.0            9.0
Total.                                                          25h. 0.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.
Ck'eong-.aor-c3QL6.-                          76..Q
Grand Total
LINlKAGES/CRITICAL LIOUT/SEEICS.
Social work office to be linked with waiting area.
Social work storage for rice, food, etc.
Office is for physiciants public- health work.
Larger office for Public Health Nurse,. Midfe,and Sanitary Eng;neer
Reception with main waiting



XLI 8
Page 3 of 25
SCHEULE OF ACCCUMODATION
II.  Rural Health Unit Type IB', with residential accommodation
Staff or                                  Totat Area
Space                   Capacity    No. of Units    Area m2         (m)
A. Health/clinical services
Consult/exam/office             1              1      x     13.0    =    13.0
Treatment, with toilet
and shower*2                   1              1      x     17.0    =    17.0
Clean supply and sterilizing   -               1      x      9.0    =      9.0
Soiled utility                  _              1      x       6.5    =     6.5
Troilet                         1              1      x      2.5    =      2.5
General storage                 -              1      x      6.5    =      6.5
Demons trat ion/multipurpose
room                          10              1      x     17.0          17.0
General waiting on verandah
71.5
B. House*l
Living                          3              1      x     18.0    =    18.0
Bed                             2              2      x       9.0    =    18.0
Kitchen                         1              1      x      6.5           6.5
Wd.C./shower                    1              1      x      3.5    =      3.5
Storage                         1              1      x       3.5    =     3.5
49.
Total                                                                    121.0
Grossing factor 25f                                       30.0
Verandah 1/2 area, say                                                     5.0
Grand 'rotal                                                             156.0
LINKAGES/CRITICAL LAYOUT/SERVICES
Demonstration/multipurpose can also be used for waiting
2lean utility has butane gas sterilizer and sink
1
*NOTE:  This schedule of accommodation will be used for the staff housing to
be provided in tdifficultt areas for the RHU's type 'At
2 May also be used for emergency labor and delivery.



A. EX 8
Page 14 of 25'
SCHEDULE OF ACCOMM4DAIION
III. Regional Training Centers
Staff or                                  Total Area
Space.                Caacity    No. of Units       Area m2        (m2)
A.. Administration Serv-ices.
Entry/registration/
exhibition area                -         2        x        50.0    3    50.0
Office                         1-2        4        x        13.0    -    52.0
Clerical office                4          1        x        13.0          52.0
Conference                    10          I        x        17.0    -    17.0
xreparation and materials      2          1        x         9.0           9.0
Records                         1         1        x         9.0    =      9.0
Storage/supplies                1         I        x        17.0          17.0
Staff lounge                    I         2        x        17.0    -    17.0
Kitchenette,                   1          1        x         3.0    =      3.0
Staff w.c.                      2         2        x         5.o         0lo.
23. 0
B. Teaching
Lecture room                  40          2        x         6o.0    = 120.0
Seminar                        .0-        4.       x        17.0    =   68.o
Demonstration,lab.            10.         1        x        25.0         25.0
Lab. storage                    -         1        x          6.5    =    6.5
Projection, film storage,
and equipment maintenance     1          1        x        2Q.0         20.0
W.C.                                      2        x        17.0    =   34.0
Common room                    -          1                 50.0    =   50.0
Library                         -         1        x        75.0         75.0
398.0
~ ~.f 'r.u<zLAY-OUT^SBELVICES
Office: director has, one toffice,. otber offices have two staff
Preparation has d licatizg machine-, etc. for lecture preparation
One seminar room to be; alao a demonstration lab. for family planning with
mannequines, etc.
Demo. lab for environmntal sanitation demonstration, etc.
Projection room with back projection between lecture rooms
Teaching area should be planned with potential for easy epansion



A1'DX 8
Page-5 oS- 25
Staff or                                 Total Area
Space                   Capacity   No. of Units      Area m2        (mi2)
C. Dining
Dining                           75          1      x        75.0    =     75.0
Servery                                      1      x        17.0    -    17.0
Snack bar                        15          1      x        13.0    =    13.0
Dishwashing                       3          1      x        13.0    =     13.0
Storage                           -          1      x        13.0    -    13.0
Receiving                         -          1      x         6.5    =      6.5
Garbage holding                                                             6.5
W.C./wash/changing                           2 2    x        13.0          13.0
Cleaner                           1         1       x         6.5    =      6.5
D.  Ancillaries
Driverst room                     3         1       x        13.0    =     13.0
Maintenance plant room            -          1      x        17.0    =    17.0
30.0
S.  Dormitories
Bedrooms (students)               2        36       x        13.0    =46.0
Bedrooms (staff)                  1         3       x        13.0          39.0
Bedrooms (visiting lecturers)    1           4      x        13.0          52.0
Bath                                                x         1.75   =      7.0
Bathrooms                         -          2      x        17.0    -    34.o
W.C.s                             -          2      x        17.0    -     34o
Linen                             -          1      x         6.5    =      6.5
LINKAGES/CRITICAL LAYOUT/SERVICES
Two sittings in dining room, food prepared in hospital kitchen or by outside
contractor.
Snack bar: coffee, biscuits, etc. served during the day.
Bedrooms: 72 students in double rooms, 3 staff in single rooms.
4 single bedrooms have attached bath/w.c.  Those are for senior
staff and visitors.



AININEX 8
Page 6 of 25
Staff o                          2   Total Area
Space                 Capacity    No. of Unita     Area m       (m2)
L. Dormitories (continued)
Student lounge                -           3      x        13.0   =  39.0
Laundry                       -           1      x        13.0       13.0
Storage                       -           1      x        13.0   =  13.0
Cleaner                       -           1      x         6.5   =   6.5
712.0
T otal                                                           1,539.5
Grossing- factor 4Q                                  615.5
1/2 covered area fer =Lxz-bvus-  25.0
Grand Total                                                       2,1M0.0
-,.A I.AL LQU/SEVICES
Student lounges - 1 per Dloor
Dormitories should be plazdd with potential for easy expansion.



.INiNEX 8
B.  COST ETfLIJA'E _/                                         Page 7 of 25
RHU type A                                     Pesos                       *
1.   Construction, including site
works, well, pump and generator
330m2 x 689.14 p/M2                     227,416               34,213
2.  Planning and Design Risk 10%               22,742               3a421
250,158              37,634
3.   Construction contingency lQ0              25,016                3,764
275,174              41,398
4.   Provinciajl cost variation
including allowance for remote
areas             15h average            41j,276               6,210
316,450              47,608
5.  Professional fees 8N
Architects, engineers, surveyors
average 4P6 for repetitive work,
and construction management 4*           25,315                3,808
6.  Furniture and equipment                    40,525                6,.097
382,290              57,513
Clerk of Works 3 years shared
between 3 RHU's and nearby 'B' Types      9,000                1,354
391,290              58,867
1/ Unit cosLs as of April, 1973.
*LES$ = 6.647pesos (April, 1973)



AIZTEX 8
27 ge 6 of 2$
COST 1STIl4Aa   1/
Staff Housing
2 houses, primarily for'phyuiclan and inidwife in 'difficult' areas
Pesos                 USS
1. Construction, includlmg . sitee 
workls, well, pump and g tor                85,455                12,856
2. Planning and Design Risk- 10%                 8,545                 1,266
94,000               14,1it2
3. Provincial cost variation.15*-
iZ2ludng allwance for rwte -areas          14,100                 2,121
108,100               16,263
4. Professional fees: 8*                         8-650                 1,301
116,750               17,564
5. Farniture and equint                          5-,150                  775
121.900               18,339
Unit costs as of April, 1973.
*IUS$1 6.647pesos



AJiNEI 8
Page 9 of 25
C;T MSTOZTE ;^/
*
RHU Type B                                     Pesos                  Ut,
1.  Construction, including site
works., well, pup and generator
156m2 x 689.14                         107,506                16,174
2.  Planning and Design Risk 10%              10,750                 1,617
118,,256              17,791
3.  Construction contingency 10'>             11,826                 1,779
130,082               19,570
4.  Provincial coat variation
including allowance for remote          19,512                 2,936
areas           156 average
149,594               22,506
5.  Professional fees 8*                      11,967                 1,800
Architects, engineers and surveyors
4;i for repetitive work, and
construction management LAZ
6.  Furniture and equipment                   15,310                 2,303
176,871               26,609
Clerk of works included
with Type'A'
1/ Unit costs as of April, 1973.
*ITJS$ = 6.647pesos (April, 1973)



ANNEX d
Page 1-0 of 25
COST X3TIEKA T
Regional Training Centers
Pesos                US$ *
1. Construction, including site
works                                      1060020              204,652
218om2 x 624p/1
2. Planning and Design Risk 10%                   136,032             20,465
1,496,352            225,117
3. Construction contingency 10A6                  149,635             22,512
1,645,987            247,629
4. Provincial cost variation 10$                  164,598             24,762
1,810,585            272,391
5. Professional fees l2&                          217,270             32,687
at architect. and engineers,
4A construction management                 2,027,855            305,078
6. Furniture                                      152,030             22,872
2,179,885            327,950
Clerk of Works 2 years                         18,000              2,708
2,197,885            330,658
1/ Unit costs as of April, 1973.
lUrSs - 6.647p.sos (April 1973)



ANNEX 8
7a0e 1:1 of 25
C.  LOCATIONS
(Note: Identification and acquisition of sites has been entrained)
Legend:        RTC              - Regional Training Center
REU Type 'Al    = Rural Health Unit for mmnicipalities
with population in 1983 projected to
be 10,000 to 50,000
RHU Type 'B'     a Rural Health Unit for municipalities
with population in 1983 projected to
be 5,000 to 10,000
Houvaig          = * indicates RHU's type 'Al will be
provided with 2 houses. All RHU's type
tB' will be provided with a house
for the midwife/comumunity health worker
REGION I.      Province            lnicipality
RTC                              RHU Type 'At              RHU Type 'B'
San Fernando  Abra:               Lagangilang                Tubo
(La Union)                       La Paz
Benguet:            Bakun*
Buguias*
Kilbungan
Tuba
flocos Norte 2     Bacarra
Dingras
Sarrat
Ilocoa Sur:        San Juan
Sta. Catalina
La Union:           San Juan                  Bagulin
Santol
Mountain:                                     Natonin
Paracelis
REGION 1I.
Cagayan       Cagayan:            Allacapan
Buguey
Calayan*
Claveria
Sto. Nino
Pamplona
Ifugao:            Hungduan*                 Banaue.
Isabela:           Aurora
Burgos
Cabagan



Daoe 1' of 25
R3GION III.     Province              Municipality
(Cont.)
RTC                                RHU Type 'A'                RHU Type 'B'
Quirino
Sta. Maria
San Isidro
Sto. Tomas
Palanan*
Nuova Vizcaya:        -                         Sta. Fe
Quezon
Batanes:                                        Basco
Kalinga Apayao:                                 Pas il
S. Marcela
Quirino:                                        Saguday
San Fernando    BatAan:              Mariveles
(Panpanga)     Bulacan:             Bustos
Paombong
S. Palay
Nueva Ecija:        Lupao
Rizal
Pangasinan:          Alaminos
Tarlac:             Moncada                     S. Clemente
Ramos
Sta. Ignacia
REGICN I.
Quezon City     Batangaa:            Agoncillo                   Balete
Sta. Teresita
Sto. Tomas
Talisay
Cavite:              Dasmarinas
Indang
Maragondon*
Magallanes*
Laguna:              Alaninos                    Fany
Pangi-
Pila
Kalayaan
Majayjay
Pagsanjan
Paete
Occ. Mindoro:        Calintaan
Sablayan
Palawan:             Balabac*                    Agutaya
El Nido*                    Cagayancillo
Narro                       Dumaran
Magsaysay                   Linapacan



MlfNEX 8
Page 13 of 25
RE&ION IV.       Province             Municipality
(Cont.)
RTC                                RHU Type tAl               RHU Type tB'
Romblon:            San Andres                 Calatrava
Quezon:             Burdeos*                   Janalig
Dipaculao*                Panuulukan
Real*
Lucban
REGION V.
Legaspi          Albay:               Malinao
Malilipot
Jovellana
Camarines Norte:    Mercedes                   San Vicente
Camarines Sur:      Lupi                       Bombon
Buhi                      Gainza
Bula
Cabusao
Del Gallego
Goa
Lagonoy
Minalabac
Masbate:            Monreal*
San Fernando
Balud*
San Pascual*
Sorsogon:           CastilJla
REGION VI.
floilo City      IloiIo:             Anilao                     Binagawan
Balasan
Barotoc Nueva
Barotoc Viejo
Carlos*
Mina
San Dionisio
Antique:            San Remigio                Balisan
Patnongon
Aklan:              New Washington             Lizo
Malinao
Nabas
Capiz               Ivisan
Pontevedra



AiUNEX 8
Page 11 of 25
RMICK VII.        Province             Mlunicipality
RTC                                 RHU Type 'Al              RHU Type 'IB
5ebu City         Cebu:                Argao
Badian
Negros Oriental:    Sta. Catalina
BMIWi VIII.
Tacloban          N. Samar:              -                       Mapanas
San Antonio
Silbino Lobes
Victoria
W. Samar            Sta. Rita
Almague*
Calbiga
Daram*
Minabangan
Jaibong
S. Leyte:           St. Bernard
San Franciso
Kawayan
N. Leyte:           San Miguel*
Cabucgayan
Caibiran
Culuba
Capoocan
DZGION TX.
Zamboanga City    zamboanga del N:    Siayan
Sibuted
Zamboanga del S.    Alicia*
Dinas
Lapuyan
Mabuhay*
Olutanga*
Sulu:               Balimbing
Cagayan*
Parang
Pata
Simunol
Maimbung



ANI'.X 8
Page 15- of 2?
REGICN IX.        Province            Municipality
RTC                                R TJ Type IA'            RHU Type 'B'
Cagayan de Oro    Bukidnon:           Kali'langan
San Fernando*
Lantapan
Kitaokitao
Surigao del
Norte:             General Luna             Pilar
Cagdianao
Alegria
S. Isidro
S. Monica
Socorro
Basilisa
Tubayan
Agusan del Sur:     Talacogon*
Rosario
Trento
Veruela*
Loreto*
Agusan del Norte:  Las Nieves*
Magallanes
Lanao del Norte:    Magsaysay                Munar
Salvador                 Nunangan
Lanao del Sur:      Bayang*                  Bubong
Bitig*                   Kapai
Lumba Bayabao*
Lumbatan*
Masiu                    Piagapo
Puno Bayabao             Pualas
Tubaran*
Pagayawan
(formerly Tatarikan)
REGION XI.
Davao City        Davao del Sur:      Magonoy
Davao Oriental:     Banaybanay               Boston
South Cotabato:     Tampokan
Arabel
Malapatan
Davao del Norte:    Carmen
Kapiitian*
New Covella*
New Bataan*
North Cotabato:     Kabacan
Alamada
Bagumnbayan



ANNEX 8
Paye 16 of 25
D. Estimated Cumulative Expenditure Schedule For Civil Works
Component
FY1975
September 1974              0.11
December 1974               0.21
March 1975                  0.38
June 1975                   0.55
FY1976
September 1975              0.79
December 1975                1.03
March 1976                  3.41
June 1976                   5.80
F92ZY
September 1976             11.61
December 1976              17.42
March 1977                 21.98
June 1977                  26.54
'FY1978
September 1977             29.94
December 1977              33.34
March 1978                 35.35
June 1978                  37.37



ANNEX 8
Page 17 of:25
PHILIPPINES: UP-DATED CIVIL WORKS COST BY TYPE OF BUILDING (IN us$)
Regional
Type 'A' RIU               Staff Housing                  B  I re              TraininB  Center       Total
(1)-     -18             (1)           (19)_         (1)         (47)           (1)        (11)
330 m2     52,40 m2    124 m2          2,356 m2      156 m2      7,332 m 2     2,180 m2   23,980 m2    85J808 m2
(Double Unit)
Costs of April 1973
Construction and Site Work                          5,405,654                    244,264                   760,178                 2,251,172    8,661,268
PDR                                                   540,518                     24,434                    75,999                   225,115       866,066
Provincial Cost Variation                            981,180                      40,299                   137,922 _272 382                       981,180
Sub-total                                     6,927,352                     308,997                   974,169                 2,748 669   10,959,187
Up-Dated June 1974*                       70,878   11,198,757       26,290       499,524       33,507    1,574,842      403,954    4,443,498   17,716,621
1,37 x 1.18 = 1.6166
Furniture and Equipment                               963,326                     14,725                   108,241                   251,592    1,337,884
Up-nated Julne 1974                       8,633    1,364,070         1,097        20,851        3,261      153,269       32,387      356,254    1,894,444
1.20 x 1.18 = 1.416
Professional Fees and Supervision                     815,596                     49,543                    84,600                   389,345    1,339,084
Up-Dated June 1974                         7,309    1,154,883        3,692        70,152        2,549      119,793       50,119      551,312    1,896,140
1.20 x 1.18 = 1.416
TOTAL BASE COST                           86182O     1=l=71O        3L.972       2P52       ==397        ?4h90       =846    = 1a64    27092
nt ingencies
tysical:  Construction                                1,119,876                     49,952                   157,484                    444,350    1,771,662
Furniture                                      136.407                      2.085                    15327                       5.62       189.444
Subtotal                                     1,256,283                     52,037                   172,811                    479,975    1,961,106
-ice Contingencies
Construction                                 7,545,162                    336,555                 1,061,050                  2,993,952   11,936,719
Furniture                                      966,360                     14,772                   108,578                    252,401    1,342,111
Fees                                           378,930                     23,020                    39,306                    180,900      622,156
Sub totsal                                   8,890,452                    374,347                 1,208,934                  3,427,253   13,900,986
TAL CONTINGENCrIES                         t64220   10214673        __2,441        426k384       222322   _181742    =-55g209 =312=8    5 862,92
------- ------                  =355-O8 2207a?2==  i=862=O92
(74)
TAL COST FOR CIVIL WORKS                    151_040   202U                                     =                           841668 2238  22 
As agreed during Negotiations, May 1974.                                                                                                        May 14, 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 18 of 25
PHILIPPINES                               June 1976      Dec. 1976      June 1977     Dec. 1977      June 1978        Total
% Key for Construction and Site Work        (15%)           (35%)         (25%)          (15%)          (lo%)        (100%)
1. Up-Dated Construction*                 2,657,493      6,200,817     4,429,156      2,657,493      1,771,662    17,716,621
Physical Contingency 10%                265,749        620,082       442,916        265,749        177.166      1.771,662
Subtotal                            2,923,2T42     6,820,899       ,8e72,072    2,923,242      1,948,828    19,488,283
1974 June-December     16   1.16
1975 January-December  19   1.38
1976 January-June       6   1.46      4,268,080
1976 June-December      6   1.55                    10,572,393
1977 January-June       6   1.64                                   7,990,198
1977 June-December      6   1.74                                                  5,086,441
1978 January-June       4   1,80                                                                 3,507,890
ii 425.002
Price Contingencies                   1,344,838      3,751,494     3,118,126      2,163,199      1,559,062    11,936,719
Physical Contingencies                  265,749        620,082       442,916        265,749        177,166      1,771,662
Total Contingencies                   1,610,587      4,371,576     3,561,042      2,428,948      1,736,228    13,708,381
* 1.37 x 1.18
= 1.6166 x 10,959,187   17,716,621
May 10, 1974



AM=EX 8
Page 19 of 25
PEILIPPIES:  SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES:  FUVRITURE AND EQUThKE!T
Dec. 1974    June 1975    Dec. 1975    June 1976    Dec. 1976    June 1977    Dec. 1977    June 1978            Total
2QtFY75      4Q/FY75       2Q/FY76       4Q/FY76      2Q/FY77       4Q/FY77       2Q/FY78       4Q/FY78
Furniture and Equipment                                                                      25%          25%           40%           10%          100, 
Base Cost April 1973                                                                        334,471     334,471       535,154       133,783      1,337,5&4
Up-Dated December j 731/                                                                    401,365     401,365       642,185       160,546      1,605,461
june 1971 W473,611                                                                             473,611       757,778       189,444     1,8941441
10% Physical Contingencies                                                                  47,361       47.361          77.8        18,944        189,4L
Subtotal                                                                                 520,972      520,972                     2 2,38      2,083,858
Escalation
1974:  18% June-December                                                                 614,747      614,747       983,596       245,898      2,L53,938
1975:  15% P. A.                                                                         706,959      706,959    1,131,135        282,783      2,827,536
1976:  12% P. A.                                                                         791,794      791,794    1,266,871        316,717      3,167,176
1977:  6% January-June                                                                                839,302
12% January-December                                                                                       1,418,896        354,724
1978:  6% January-June                                                                                                            376,007
Price Contingencies                                                                         270,822     318,330       585,340       167,619      1,342, .
Physical Contingencies                                                                      471361       47,361        75j778        18.944        1A89,U44
TOTAL CO;TBlIrGhICIES                                                                       318,183     365,691       661,118       186,563      ',531,55
j   0.75 x 27% = 20%
g/  April - DUcLnmber 1973 ( 0.75) x 49% = 37%



. 4.  .'; 4
.  .. J 2.  .
PHILIPPINES: SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES: PROFESSIONAL FEES
Dec. 1974    June 1975    Dec. 1975    June 1976    Dec. 1976    June 1977    Dec. 1977    June 1978          Total
2Q/FY75      4Q/FY75      2Q/FY76      4Q/FY76       2Q/FY77       4Q/FY77      2Q/FY78       4Q/FY78
Professional Fees                     10%          15%           20%          20%           10%          10%           10%          5%            100%
Base Costs April 1973               133,908       200,863      267,817      267,817       133,908      133,908       133,908       66,955      1,339,084
Up-Dated December  9731/            160,690       241,035      321,380      321,380       160,690      160,690       160,690       80,345      1,606,900
June 1974J                189,614        284,421     379,228       379,228      189,614       189,614      189,614        94,807     1,896,140
Escalation
1974:  12% June-December          212,368       318,552     424,735       424,735      212,368       212,368       212,368      106,184
1975:   6% January-June                         337,665
12% January-December                                 475,703       475,703      237,852       237,852      237,852       v18,926
1976:   6% January-June                                                   504,245
12% January-December                                                            266,394       266,394      266,394       133,197
1977:   6% January-June                                                                              282,377
12% January-December                                                                                       298,361
1978:   6% January-June                                                                                                         141.188
TOTAL EXPENDITURE           .                                                                                                                  2,518,296
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                  22,754        53,244       96,475      125,017        76,780       92,758       108,747       46,381        622,156
j 20%
?J  10*



rZage2l of 25
PHILIPPINES: SUIMARY OF SCHDDULES OF EXPENDITURES FOR CIVIL WORKS: TOTAL
Dec. 1974   June 1975   Dec. 1975   June 1976    Dec. 1976   June 1977    Dec. 1977   June 1978           Total
2Q/FY75     4Q/FY75      2Q/FY76      4Q/FY76      2Q/FY77      4Q/FY77      2Q1FY78      4Q/FY78
(A) Base Costs April 1973
1. Construction                                                    1,643,878    3,835,715    2,739,797    1,643,878    1,095,919    10,959,187
2. Furniture                                                                      334,471      334,471      535,154      133,788     1,337,884
3. Fees                       133.290      200o863      267.81       267.817      1,4.108     1x.908        133.,908      66.955     1i39,o84
4. Total                      133,908      200,863      267,817   1,911,695    4,304,094    3,208,176    2,312,940    1,296,662    13,636,155
(B) Up-Dated June 1974
1. Constructione                                                   2,657,493    6,200,817    4,429,156    2,657,493    1,771,662    17,716,621
2. Farniture                                                                      473,611      473,611      757,778      189,444     1,894,444
3. Fees                       189.614        284.421    3  228       379 228      189,614      189.611 89.614             94.807     1,896,14o
4.  Total                     189,614      284,421      37922      3,036;721     ,M,0{42    5,092,381    3,604,885    2 055,913    21,507,205
(100%)
(C) Total Contingencies
1. Construction                                                    1,610,587   4,371,576    3,561,042    2,428,948    1,736,228    13,708,381
2. Furniture                                                                      318,183      365,691      661,118      186,563     1,531,555
3. Fees                        22,754          _4        96.475      125.017        6 80        92,8        108.747        68          622.156
4. Total                       22,754       53,244       96i,475    1,735,604    4,766,539    4,019,491    3,198,813    1,969,172    15,862,092
(74%)
(D) Total Expenditures  (a + C)
1. Construction                                                    4,268,o00   10,572,393    7,990,198    5,086,441    3,507,890    31,425,002
2. Furniture                                                                      791,794     .839,302    1,418,896      376,007     3,425,999
3. Fees                         2.369      337,665      475,703      504.245      266.39      _23722        20.361       i41188    2,518,296
4. Total                      212,368      337,665      475,703   4,772,325  31,630,581    9,111,872    63,698   41,025,085    37,369,297
(174%)
Cumulative                212,368      550,033    1,025,736    5,798,061  17,428,642  26,540,514   33,344.212   37,369,297
(D) Civil Works Expenditure:
Per Half Year                 0.2          0.3          0.          4.8        11.6           9.1         6.8           4.1
Cumulat ive                   0.2          0.5          1.1          5.8         17.4         26.5         33.3         37.4
Vay 10, 1974



ANNEX 8
rage 2 oIf 25
F. OUTLINE OF FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR,
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION UNIT
1.  Prepares detailed project schedule and budgets of Parts B, C and D of
the project.
2. Assigns jobs to full-time project staff.
3. Negotiates with contractors, various units in the Department of Health
and other Government departments, bureaus and agencies such as the
Department of P.W.T.C., NEDA, DSW, Education and Institute of Public
Health of the University of the Philippines relative to construction,
manpower, funds, equipment and work assignments.
4. Promotes the project and the project product among health service
staff and various units of the Department of Health involved in the
project activities, the consumer of the health services and the private
health sector.
5. Plans for and ensures the staffing and operation of the new health
service facilities.
6. Plans and establishes efficient and effective procurement procedures
for equipment and materials for the new facilities.
7. Sy vises the development of operating procedures, manuals and curri-
cula for training courses.
8. Ensures that work is completed on schedule as per plan and within budget.
9. Prepares and submits necessary records and rsports to higher levels and
the Bank as required.
10. Evaluates the effectiveness of training staff, the new procedures, and
revising procedures, curricula, and the project schedule accordingly.
11. Motivates staff to perform effectively.



AN=E 8
Page 23 of 2g
G. Outline of Responsibilities of the Project Architect
1.        The Project Construction Unit (PCU) will consist of:
- The Project Director
- The Project Architect, who should be assisted
by a Quantity Surveyor
- The Project Accountant
- The Equipment Specialist
-  Urban Planners
2.        Within this group, and in close cooperation with the Con-
struction Management Consultant and the Executive Architects, the
Project Architect will fulfill the following functions, duties and
responsibilities:
(a)  Prepare contracts for professional services (Surveyors,
Architects, Quantity Surveyors, Clerk of Works, Construction
Management Consultants), and advice on contracts for contractors,
suppliers and services.
(b)  Outline planning data (space standards, functional room loading,
advice on grid or module system) for the performance of each
building considering the functional character of the building
and typographical, environmental and climatic conditions.
(c)  Assess Building Guides for the mentioned buildings sinilar to,
or with reference to, or selected from the "National Building
Gode." These guides should form part of the specification and
the contract documents.
(d)  Prepare cost analysis and continuous cost control of each pro-
ject or group, taking into account the expected and actual pro-
vincial cost variations (separated into expenditure for labor
and material) and cost escalation and contingencies.
(e)  Prepare schematic monthly reports on project progress, showing
the actual progress against the estimated timetable and explain-
ing differences if any.
(f)  Attend the regular site meetings and advise   the Project Director
on all architectura_. matters arising during the construction period.
(g)  Supervise project preoaration, speed and standard of performance,
setting timetables for site investigations and selections, con-
tracts, approvals and decisions on samples or specimens for civil
works, furniture and equipment, following the Critical Path Method
(CPFM) or simple network contirol system.



A-XLEX 8
Page 4 of 25
(n) Outline criteria for plot selection; social location, land-
scape and environment, size, access, scope, underground and
scil, size, legality, security, neighborhood, utilities.
(i)  Organize procurement rrocedures by setting principles and
details concerning standards, quality, guarantee, service,
maintenance, stocking spare parts, renewal of services, etc.,
as part of the conditio-ns for bidding and supplying mechanical,
electrical, medical and special equipment.
(j) Assist the Project Director in acceptance procedure of civil
works, furniture, equipment and professional services and in
the control of liabilities.
(K) Assist the Project Director in advising staff and users on
economical use and maintenance of the buildings and their
equipment, by instructions, demonstrations, manuals, service
lists, warning signs, etc.
(1) Advise on color schemes, orientation system, gardening,
fencing, measures for safety, protection and security.
(mr) Prepare critical reporting after completion of the liability
period and at one to two year intervals, about cractical ex-
perience on the project regarding design and layout - room
loading - construction and performance - utilities and techni-
cal maintenance - influence on project success and proposals
for improvement.



ANNEX 6
Page 25 of 25
H.  Terms of Reference For Construction Management Consultants
The project includes the construction of a large number of small
buildings dispersed over the islands of the Philippines. Problems in im-
plementation will most likely be those related to project management, cost
control, and monitoring and maintaining progress of construction in the
rujral areas. The degree to which these services will be required is out-
side the normal scope of architectural services and it is recommended that
construction management consultants, an acknowledged profession in the
Philippines, be retained for the project. Their duties and obligations
will include, inter alia:
(a) Carry out cost control, based on detailed take off of quantity
of materials and labor;
(b) Advise on the regional variation of costs and availability of
materials and labor in order that the architects may make ap-
propriate decisions in design, construction systems, and speci-
fications;
(c) Prepare cash flow projections to indicate funding requirements
throughout the construction period;
(d) Establish and manage a work program, utilizing suitable program-
ming tools (such as network analysis), for the design, construc-
tion and commissioning phases of the project. This would include
establishment of a pre-ordering schedule for major equipment' and
materials taking into account anticipated lead time;
(e) Advise on suitable forms of construction contracts, and ii view
of the market situation obtaining at the time, advice on the
most appropriate packaging of construction contracts;
(f) Assist with evaluation of bids;
(g)  Provide field inspection to monitor and manage construction pro-
gress and assist architects and contractors to maintain momentum
of %work;
kh)  Measure sites and verify contractors' monthly certificates; and,
(i) Assist with1 preparation of final accounts.






Philiosines                                                             ANNEX 9
Page I of 5
Non-Construction Prolect Coemonents - Costs
Proiect Year 1uS)                                              Philic.ines P                                      VSS
Unit Cost             1             2             34 
US$                                                                                       Loc-l        Foreign         Total           Loc:l        Foreign         Total
VEliICLES
1. minibuses - R'dTC (33)                            5,500           60,500       60,500        60,500            -             _                 -        1,230,600      1,230,600             -          181,500        181,500
2. Jeeps      - RHTC (33)                             3,700          40,700       40,700        40,700            -              -             827,800            -         827,800          122,100            -         122,100
3. Jeeps      - R'dTC (205)                          3,700          252.800      252,800       252,900            -              -           5.142,               -       5.142,600          758.500            _         758.500
Subtotal                                                      354,000       354,000       354,100            -             -           5,970,400    1,230.600    7,201,000             880,600        181,5Q0     1,062,100
Price Contiogencies  a/                                          53,100      102,000       143,000            -             -            1.676.000       345.100    2.021.100           247.200         50,900        298.100
TOTAL VEHICLES                                                  407,100       456,000       497,100            -             -            7,646,400     1,575,700    9,222,100         1,127,800        232,400      1,360,200
AUTOMOBILE SPARE PARTS
1. Existing 300 Jeeps                                   616         184,800           -             -             -              -           1,252,900            -       1,252,900          184,800            -         184,800
2. 238 Jeeps                                            370             -             _                        44,050        44,050            597,000            -         597,000           88,100            -          88,100
3. 33 hinibuses                                         550             _             _             -           9.100         9,100               -           123400        123,400             _            18.200        18.200
Subtotal                                                       184,800          -              -          53,150        53,150         1,849,900        123,400    1,973,300           272,900         18,200        291,100
Price Contingencies                                               16.,.0           -             - Z21.850                28600             165.800       288.800        454.600           24.45         42.600         67.050
TOTAL AUTOMOBILE SPARE PARTS                                     201,400          -              -          75,000        81,750          2,015,700       412,200    2,427,900            297,350        60,880        358,150
SPiCIAL P0UIPI.IRT
1. Library For Regionat Training Units (11)                          82,500       82,500        82,500            -              -                  -      1,678,000      1,678,000              -          247,500       247,500
2. Audiovisual Equipment For Regional
Training Units (11)
a. 16mm Sound Movie Projector                        750             -         16,500            _      -                     -                 -         111,900        111,900              -          16,500         16,500
b. 35sm Slide Projector (22)                         150             -          3,300            -             -              -                  -          22,400        22,400                           3 3,300       3,300
c. Generators (22)                                   150             -          3,300                   -                     -                 -           22,400        22,400              -            3,300         3,300
d. Public Address Syste  (22)                        150             -          3,300            -             -              -                  -          22,400        22,400              -            3,300         3,300
e. Projector Screens (22)                             75             -          1,700            -                            -                  -          11.500        11,500              _            1,700         1,700
f. Radio (22)                                         75                        1,700            -                            -                  -          11,500        11,500              -            1,700         1,700
g. Record Player (22)                                150             -          3,300            -             -              -                  -          22,400        22,400              -            3,300         3,300
h. Tape Recorder (22)                                150             -          3,300            -             -                                 -          22,400        22,400               -           3,300         3,300
i. Portable Duplicating Table (11)                   120             -          1,300            -             -              -                  -           8,800         8,800              .            1,300         1,300
J. Audiovisual Materials (22)                        150             -          3,300            -             -              -                  -          22,400        22,400              -            3,300         3,300
k. Exhibition-Display Stands (22)                     75             -          1,700                   -              -               -                    11.500        11.500               -           17700        1.700
Subtotal C.2                                                    -         42,700           _              _             _                  _         289,600        289,600              -          42,700         42,700
3. Statistical Unit
a. Duplicating Machine                            !,500              -          1,500            -             _              _                  _          10,200        10,200               -           1,500          1,500
b. Calculating Macbine                             9,000             -          9,000                          _              _                  _          6 ,000        61,000               -           9,000          9,000
c. offser Press Machine                            7,900             -          7,900            -             -              -                  _          53,600        53,600               -           7,900          7,900
d. Typewriters                                   11,300                        11,300            -             -              _                             76,600        76,600               -          11,300         11,300
e. Office Furnicure                              10,200              -         10,200            -             -              -                  -          69,Z00        69,200               -          10,ZoO         10,200
f. SSB Radio System                              24,800              -         24,800            -             -              -                  -         168,100       168,100               -          24,800        24,800
g. Cutter & Others                               25,600              -         25,600            _                                                         173.600       173.600               -          25600          25.600
Subtotal C.3                                                    -         90,300           -              -             -                  -         612,300        612,300              -          90,300         90,300
4. Communications Equipment                                         150.000      150,000            -              -             -                          2 034,000    7,034.000                -         300,000        300,000
5. IEC Equipaent (UNFPA)                                             22.600      _                  -                                                         15 OO3.200     153.200              -          22.600         22,600
Subtotal C. .                                                  255,100      365,500        82,500            -              -                  -      4,767,000    4,767,000                 -         703,100       703,100
Price Contingencies                                               35.000      105.300        33 300            -              -                  -       1.199.400    1.199.400                          173.600       173.600
TOTAL SPECIAL EQUIPMENT                                          290,100      470,800        115,800           -              _                          5,966,400    5,966,400                -         876,700        876,700



Philippines                                                            ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
Ngn-Constr.ction Pro1ect Components - Coots
Proiect Year (US$)                                          Philippines P                                      USS
Unit Cost            1             2             3             4           5
USS                                                                                     Loc, I       s Foreign      Total           Local        Foreitn        TotaeL
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Advisors
a. OHEPT:
i) Organization (12MM1)                    46,000            46,000          -             -             -             -                 -         311,900       311,900              -          46,000        46.000
ii) Nurse/Hidwife & Community Health
(12MM)                                 34,500           34,500          -             -             -             -                  -         233,900       233,900             -          34,500         34,500
b. RHU New Procedures (6MM)                    23,000           23,000          -                                                            -        155,900        155,900             -          23,000        23,000
c. Supply & Logistics (12MM)                   46,000              -         46,000                  -             -                         -        311,900       311,900              -          46,000        46,000
d. Statistics (6MM)                            20,100              -         20,100           -             -             _                           136,300        136,300             -          20,100        20,100
e. Int'l Consultancy Services (UNFPA)
(3MM per year)                                             7.500       .L500          7.500   _                      -                 -         152.500       152                  -         i50022.500     22.500
Subtotal D.1                                              111,000       73,600         7,500           -             -                 -       1,302,400    1,302,400               -         192,100       192,100
2. Fellowships
a. Prospective Trainers (33)                                    12,600       12,600        12,600           -             -             256,300            -         256,300          37,800            -         37,800
b. DOH Nursing Program Supervisor (2MM)                          3,600                        -             -                                -          24,400        24,400                         3,600          3,600
c. Nurse-Coordinator-Natl. FP Office (3MM)                       4,600          -             -             -             -                  -         31,200         31,200             -           4,600         4,600
d. Nurse Training Coordinator OIIEPT (3MM)                       6,400          -             -             -             -                  -         43,400         43,400             -           6,400          6,400
a. Intl Fellowships - IEC (UNFPA) (12MM)                        12.750       1275          12.7750          -                                              300       259,300             -          38250         38.250
Subtotal D.2                                               39,950       25,350        25,350           -             -             256,300       358,300       614,600           37,800        52,850        90,650
3. Fac11iries Study                                                   -            -             _         230.000       120.000         ____120 000                                                  230 000        350.000
Subtotal UNFPA                                             20,250       20,250        20,250           -             -                 -         411,800       411,80.              -          60,750        60,750
Subtotal IBRD                                             130,700       78,700        12,600       230,000       120,000         1,069,900    2,808,300   3,878,200             157,800       414,200       572,000
Price Contingencies                                             11,800       14,800         3.700        94.700        64.600           486,^100       798,00   1,285,500             7.0          117.800       189.60
Total 18RD                                                     142,500       93,500        16,300       324,700       184,600         1,556,900    3,609,600   5,163,700             229,600   2        5        761T,60
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     162,750      113,750        36,550       324,700       184,600          1,556,900    4,018,800   5,575,500            229,600       592J750        822,350
E. INCREHENTAL RECURRENT COST
1. Salaries
a. Health Statistics
i) Chief Health Statistician  (1)            2,260            2,260        2,260         2.260         2,260         2,260            76,600            -          76,600          11,300           -          11,300
ii) Supervising Health Statisticians (6)   2,150              12,900       12,900        12,900        12,900        12,900           437,300            -        437,300           64,500           -          64,500
iii) Administrative Officer (1)                2,040            2,040        2,040         2,040         2,040         2,040            69,200            ,          69,200          10,200           -          10,200
iv) Chief Programmer                          1,860            1,860        1,860         1,860         1,860         1,860            63,100            -          63,100           9,300           -            9,300
v) Regional Statisticians (11)               1,680           18,480       18,480        18,480        18,480        18,480           626,500            -         626,500          92,400            -          92,400
vi) Chief Radio Monitoring Operator (1)         720               720         720           720           720           720             24,400           -          24,400           3,600            -           3,600
vii) Senior Clerk                                720               720         720            720          720            720            24,400           ,          24,400           3,600            -           3,600
viii) Key Punch Operators (12)                    760            9,120        9,120         9,120         9,120         9,120            309,200                     309,200          45,600            -          45,600
ix) Radio Monitoring Operators (11)             690          7.590          7,590         7,590       7.590           7.590           2.7300             -         2.57300          37L950                       37.950
Subtotal l.a                                           55,690       55,690        55,690         55,690        55,690         1,888,000           -       1,888,000          278,450           -         278,450
b. RHU New Operational Procedures
i) Public ,Health Specialist                 2,880            2,880        2,880         2,880         2,880         2,880            97,600            -          97,600          14,400            -          14,400
ii) Technical Staff (2)                       2,160            4,320        4,320         4,320         4,320         4,320           146,400            -         146,400          21,600            -          21,600
iii) Secretaries (2)                           1,200            2,400        2,400         2,400         2,400         2,400             81,400           _          81,400          12.000                       12,000
iv) Midwives (2,400, 48( per yr.)               8On          384.000      768 000    1.15?.000    1.53t.000    1.920.000           39,052,800            -                        .76000              -      5760.000
Subtotal l.b                                           393,600      777,600    1,161,600    1,545,600    1.929,600           39,378,200            -     39,378,200        5,808,000           -       5,808,000



Philippines                                                        ANNEX 9
Non-Construction Prolect Components - Costs                                          Page 3 of 5
Project Year (US$)                                           Philippines P                                     us$
Unit Cost            1             2             3             4           5
USS                                                                                     Local        Foreign       Total             Local       Foreiain       Total
F. INCRE4ENTAL RECURRENT COSTS (Contd)
1. Salaries (Contd)
c. IEC (UNFPA)
i) Associate Director For IEC                                 2,500      2,600           2,650                                      52,500             -        52,500              7,750           -          7,750
ii) Prolect Officers (4)                                       9,380       9,850         10,100                                     198,900                     198,900             29,330           -         29.330
iii) Research Assistants (4)                                    3,600       3,757          3,800                                     756,400             -       756,400             11,157           -         11,157
iv) IEC Regional Officer                                      17,685      18,500         18,700                                     372,100             -       372,100             54,885           -         54,885
v) IEC Regional Pro duction/
Distribution Officer                                     13,260      16,250         16,553                                     312.300                     312,300            46063 
Subtotal l.c.                                          46,425      50,957         51,803            -             -         1,011,400             -    1,011,408            149,185            -        149,185
d. POPCOM Training Division
i) Assistaht Director (1)                   2,320             2,300        2,400         2,600        2,700            -              67,900           -          67,900           10,000                      10,000
ii) Project Officers (3)                      2,170            6,500        6,800         7,200         7,500           -             190,100           -         190,100           28,000           -          28,000
iii) Project Assistants (2)                      835            1,700        1,700         1,800         1,900                          48,700           -          48,700            7,100           _           7,100
iv) Secretary (1)                               690              700          700           800           800           -              20,100            -         20,100            3,000           -           3,000
v) Clerk-Typists (2)                           595            1.200        1300          1300          1.40Q           -              34.700            -         34.700            5200            -5.200
Subtotal                                                12,400       12,900        13,700       14,300            -             361,500           -         361,500          53,300            -          53,300
vi) Insurance & Medicare                                       1,200        1,300         14400         10              -              36.000            -         36,000            5300                          300
Subtotal l.d                                            13,600      14,200         15,100       15,700            -             397,500           -         397,500          58,600            -          58,600
e. POPCOM Regional Offices
i) Regional Officers (11)                                    23,400          -             -             -             -             158,700            -        158,700           23,400           -          23,400
ii) Project Coordinators (11)                                 18,400          -             -             -             -             124,800            -        124,800           18,400           -          18,400
iii) Administrative Assistants (11)                            10,100          -             -             -             -              68,500            -         68,500           10,100                      10,100
iv) Stenographers (11)                                         5,900          -             -             -             -              40,000            -         40,000            5,900           -           5,900
v) Clerks (11)                                                5,900          _             _      -                    -              40,000            -         40,000            5,900                       5 900
vi) Drivers (11)                                               5,500          -             -             -             -              37,300            -          37,300           5,500            _           5,500
vii) Janistors (11)                                             4,700          -             -             -             -              31,900            -         31,900            4,700           _            4,700
viii) Accountants (11)                                           9,600          -             -             -             -               65,100           -          65,100           9.600           -            9,600
ix) Administrative Assistants III (7)                          7.100          -                                                        48,10             -         48.100            7 100           -7 100
Subtotal                                               90,600           -             _             _             _             614,300            -        614,300          90,600            -          90,600
x) insurance & Other Fringe Benefits                         21.600          -                                                        147600                      14.600           21,600           -          21,600
Subtotal l.e                                          112,200           -             -             _             _             760,700                                      112,200                     112,200
Salaries - UNFPA/GOP                                            46,425       50,957        51,803            _-                                                          -           149,185            -         149,185
Salaries - AID                                                 125,800       14,200        15,100        15,700            -                 -             -             -           170,800            -         170,800
Salaries - IBRD/GOP                                            448.290      832.290    1.216.290    1.600.290   1.,984.290                   -             -                       6.081.450            -       6081.450
Subtotal                                                     620,515      897.447    1,283.193    1,615,990    1,984,290                   -             -             -         6,401.435            -      6,401,435
Price Contingencies                                             40,400      138,00        2000      _  471,000        716,637                                                      1,654                       1,654037
Total Salaries                                                 660,915   1,035,447    1,571,191    2,086,990    2,700,927                                                          8,055,470            .       8,055,470
2. Wucrkehops, Trips & Travel
a. Workshops
i) Stipends                                                     -          3,000         1,800           -           1,800            44,700            -          44,700           6,600            -           6,600
ii) Travel                                                       -          1,200         1,200           _           1,200            24,400            -          24,400           3,600                        3,600
iii) Organization                                                 _            900         920                           920 _218 .700                    -          18.700 2L7602760 -
Subtotal 2.a                                               -          5,120         3,920                       3,920            87,800            -          87,800          12,960            -          12,960
b. Trips - Health Statistics Unit                                5,800        5,800            _      -                    -                 -             -             -             11,600           -          11,600
c. Study Tours (UNFPA)                                           5,500        5,500         5,500                                                       I _  -  111   n  111,900                     16.500        16,500
d. International Travel (UNIPA)                                  8,.00Q       e     eoo     s.oo            -             -                             162 700_       162.700                       2400          2  000
Subtotal UNFPA                                             13,500       13,500        13,500           -             -                  -             -             -                -          40,500        40,500
Subtotal IBRD                                               5.800       10.920         3.920                         920                -                                        24560             -4560
Subtotal                                                 19,300       24,420        17,420           -           3,920                _             _             -            24,560        40,500         65,060
price Contingencies                                           500        2.000           900           -      _    1,300             166.500  _                 166.500         4.700   _          -           4,700
Total Workshops, Trips & Travel                                 19,800       26,420        18,320            -          5,220             166,500      274,600       441,100           29,260        40,500         69,760



Philippines                                                            ANNEX 9
P&;e 4 af
Non-Construction Proiect Comaonents - Costs
Proiect Year (USS)                                           Phillnoines P                                     USS
Unit Cost            1            2             3             4           5
US$____________   ___________________________________________             LocCLocal    Forejit      Total           Loca         ForeZ Rn       Tota l
E.  INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS (Contd)
3. Operating Costs
a. Vehicle Matntenance
i) Jeeps                               ($26/mo/238)         25,000      49,900        74,300        74,300        74,300        2,019,800            -      2,019,800         297,800           -         297,800
ii) Minibuses                                                 7,000      14,000        21,000        21,000        21,000           569,500           -        569,500          84,000            _         84,000
iii) Special Equipment (UNFPA)                                   500          500          500                                            00 _  -  10.200--       10.200           1 500                       1.500
Subtotal F.3.a.                                       32,500       64,400        95,800       95,300        95,300         2,599,500                   2,599,500         383.300           -         383,300
b. Production & Distribution (UNFPA)                           57,000       57,000       57,000           -             -           1,159,400           -       1,159,400         171,000                     171,000
c. Expendable Equipment                                         1,000        1,000        1,000           -             -              20,300                      20,300           3,000           -           3,000
d. Communication Services                                       1,000        1,000        1,000           -                            20,300           -          20,300           3,000           -           3,000
e. Sundry                                                      10,200       10,200       10,200           -             -             207.500           -        207,500           30,600           -          30,600
f. USAID                                                     _258.00       29.00Q        29.000        29 000           -          2.339.000            -      2,339000          345.00034500 -0
Subtotal - UNFPA                                         69,700       69,700        69,700           -             -          1,417,500            -      1,417,500         209,100                     209,100
SubtDtal - IBRD                                           32.00Q      63.900        95300         95,300        95 300        258.8600                    2 2.58600        ,381.80             -381800
Subtotal                                              101,700      133,600       165,000        95,300       95,300         4,006,300            -      4,006,300         935,900           -         935,900
Price Contingencies                                     2.900         10,600        21.400        24.27Q        27.200          599.100   __599.100                          86.370_86370 -
Total Operating Costs                                         362,600      173,200      215,400       148,570       129,500         6,931,000           -      6,931,000        1,022,270           -       1,022,270
TOTAL INCMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS                                1,043,315   1,235.067    1,804,913    2,242,560    2,834,600           61,779,000       274,600   62,053,600        9,147,500        40,500    9,147,500
F. PRWECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
a. Salary of Architect                           10,800           10,800       10,800        10,800       10,800           -             292,900           -         292,900          43,200           -          43,200
b. Other Expenses                                 2,400            2.4QQ        2.400   _     2.400      2.400                            65.100                      65.100           9.600                       9.600
Subtotal G.                                                  13,200       13,200        13,200       13,200           -             358,000           -         358,000          52,800                      52,800
Price Contingencies                                           1,200        2,500        3,900         5,400           -              88,100           -          88,100          13,000           -          13,000
TOTAL PROJIECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                                14,400       15,700        17,100       18,600           -             446,100           -         446,100          65.800           -          65,800
TOTAL NON-CONSTRUCTIOt COSTS                                       2,117,865    2,288,817   2,466,570    2,655,815    3,101,680           73,411,100   12,225,300   85,636,400        10,827,600    1,803,100   12,630,700



PhilipiresAEX9
Page 5 of 5
Non-Construction Pro1ect Co flCO5ent5 - Costs
Sumarv
Project Year (US$)                                       Philiopines P                                    USS
1            2            3            4           5
____________________________ _--__            Local       Foreign        Total          Locil         Forign       Total
A. Vehicles                                                 354,000      354,000       354,100          -           -           5,970,400    1,230,600    7,201,000          880,600      181,500    1,062,100
B. Spare Parts                                              184,800         -             -          53,150     53,150          1,850,300      123,400    1,973,700          272,900       18,200       291,100
C. Special Equipment                                        25',100      365,500        82,500          -           -                -       4,767,000    4,767,000             -         703,100       703,100
D. Technical Assistance
1. Advisors                                             111,000       73,600         7,500          -          :                 -       1,302,400    1,302,400             -         192,100       192,100
2. Fellowships                                           39,950       25,350        25,350          -          -              256,300      358,300       614.600         37.800        52,800        90,600
3. Studies                                            _                                         230.000    120.000         _ 813.600    1.559 400   _2373,0              120.000      2,0Q         350,0,0
Subtotal                                          150,950       98,950        32,850      230,000    120,000          1,069,900    3,220,100    4,290,000          157,800      474,900       632,700
E.  Incremental Recurrent Cost
1. Salaries                                             620,515      897,447    1,283,200    1,615,990  1,984,290          43,401,700         -       43,401,700      6,401,435          -       6,401,435
2. Workshops, Trips & Travel                             19,300       24,420        17,420          -        3,920            166,500       274,600      441,100          24,560       40,500        65,060
3. Operating Cost                                       359.700      162.600       194,000      124.300     95,30           6.345.400          -       6.345.400        935.900-                  -- J35.90
Subtotal                                          999,515    1,084,467    1,494,620    1,740,290  2,083,510          49.913,600       274,600   50,188,200       7,361,895       40,500       2,395
F.  Project Construction Unit                                13,200        13.200       13.200       13.20         -              35B.000  _                 358.000          52.800          -          52.800
Subtotal                                            1,957,565    1,916,117    1,977,270    2,036,640  2,256,650          59,162,200    9,615,700   68,777,900        8,725,995     1,418,200  10,144,195
Price Contingencies                                   160,300      372.700       489.300      619175       45.030        12.248.9     2.L0 16              5384.900   2 486.505
Total Other Project Costs                             2,117,865    2,288,817    2,466,570    2,655,815  3,101,680          73,411,100   12,225,300   85,636,400       10,827,600      1,803,100  12,630,700






ANNNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX 10
- Estimated Disbursement Schedule
1974-75
December 1974                              0.35
March 1975                                 o.86
June 1975                                  1.01
19-75r76
September 1975                             1.70
December 1975                              2.o4
March 1976                                 2.86
June 1976                                  4.07
1976-77
September 1976                             5.75
December 1976                              8.46
March 1977                                11.52
June 1977                                 13.80
1977-78
ep-tember 1977                            16.39
December 1977                             18.36
March 1978                                20.58
June 1978                                 21.81
September 1978                            23.09
December 1978                             23.38
March 1979                                23.89
June 1979                                 24.36
1979-80
September 1979                            2L.85
December 1979                             25.00



MI?LL)ENVTAT-X?'; -. iXPjL'--TUAJL  -. DISBUTG!BEki,'  1977-1 979
1977                   1978                     1979                  1980
J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A 3 0 N D J F M A M J
IMPLE{ENTATION                               FY78                      FY79                     FY80
Negot., Board, effect., clos                                                                          C
PCU                                                                                                          0
Briefing mang.cons. + arch.
Standards, eq. lists
Constr.manag.cons.
Timing, cost plan, qual.spec.   *o-   ac   oocc       o
Architect: Report (plots), pre-             xx          xo
limin., design, superv.
Plots                          1
2
Constr.: 3 phases: Qualif.    1   xoxxCOxoxxxxL
ICB, jur.contr., site        2   xxxxxoxxCOxxoxxL
Work + const. compl., liab. 3   xxxxxxxxxxxo xxCOxxxxxL
Fuun. + equipjv: 3 phases      1   xoxxxxxxxo
2   xxxxxxxoxxxxxxxo
3 xxxxxxxoxxxxxxxxxx,xx_oc
EXPENDITURES                               ,Etot D tot
Civil work: construction           25.37 27.91 29.o6 31.42                                         31'.2 12 .5
furn. + eq.             2.34  3.05  3.24  3.43                                          3-43  3.43
fees                    2.23  2.38  2.45  2.52                                          2.52  2.52
subtotal          29.94 33.3  35.35 37.37                                          37Q7 18.20
Oth.proj.cs special equip.                                                                           0.t5  0.86
vehicles                                                                                1.36  1.36
spare parts                   0.24        0.28         0.33         0.36                0.36  0.36
techn.ass.              0.31  0.39  0.47  0.55  o.63  0.67  0.71  0.75  0.82            0.82  o.76
incr.rec.cost           4.08  4.64  5.20  5.76  6.32  7.03  7.74  8.45  9.16            9.16  34
PCU                                                                                     0.06  .02
subtotal           6.      .    8.21  8.8    .  10.4  11.08 11.6-12.6
total (acc)       36.83 40.91 43.       .2   .90  7.       .     .23                 .002.00
DISBURSEMENTS                      ___
Civil work                         12.61 14.46 16.31 17.25 18.20
Oth.proj.c.                         3.78    90     27  Lg6  4.89 5.18  g.69  6.1 6  6.6   6.80o
16.39 18.36  20.58 21      .,1 23.09 23.38 23.89 24.36 24.85 25.00
4b                                                                       4   



IMPLEMNTATION - EXPENDITURES - DISBUIEEMENTS  1974-1976
1974                     1975                     1976                  1977
JFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJ AS ONDJFMAMJJAS ONDJFMAMJ
IMPIMNTATION                      FY7li                  FY75                     FY76               .       7
Negot., Board, effect., clos.              N B      E
PCU
Briefing mang.cons. + arch.                M A
Standards, eq.lists                          S      L
Constr.manag.cons.
Timing, cost plan, qual.spec.              oxTxxxC                                                                MM=
Architect: Report (plots), pre-                   _      a       __             c___a_
limin., design, superv.
Plots: 2 phases: Identific.   1   XooCoXooooCO   A      R  S
acquis., report, survey      2             oxocI   A   R S
Constr., 3 phasest Qualif.   1                                        Q            B                      _
ICB, jur.contr., site        2                                      Q            B       C      xgxoxxocorooxoxxxx
Wiork + const. compl., liab. 3                                      Q            B       C          )OCxxxxxxxxxxxx
Furn. + equipn: 3 phases       1                       L          L     S          B              C    x_
list, specif., ICB, supply  2                                                    B              Cxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx rjx
liab.                       3                                                    B              Cxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
I
EXPENDITURES
Civil work: construction                                                              2.13  4.27  9.56 14.83         21.83
furn. + eq.                                                                           0.39  0.79  1.21  1.63
fees                                0.11  0.21  0.38  0.55  0.79  1.03  1.28  1.53  1.66  1.80  1.94  2.08
subtotal                        0.11  0.21  0.38  0.55  0.79  1.03  3.41  5.80 11.61 17.42 21.98 26.5
Oth.proj.c: special equip.                             0.14        0.29         0.52        0.76         0.81         o.88
vehicles                                  0.20         0.41        o.64         0.87         1.12        1.36
spare parts                               0.10         0.20
techn.ass.                                0.04  0.08  0.12  0.16  0.19  0.21  0.24  0.27  0.28  0.29  0.30
incr.rec.cost                             o.26  0.52  0.78  1.04  1.35  1.66  1.97  2.28  2.73  3.18  3.63
PCU                                 0.01  0.02                     0.04         0.06
subtotal                        0.01  0.76  1.3$  1.80  2.10  2.94  Z.27  4.10 4.4) 5.20  5.66  6.43  '- t
total (acc)                     0.12  0.97  1.74  2.35  2.89  3.97  6.68  9.90 16.05 22.62 27.64 32.97  Q 
ID X
DI.3BU11SEMENTS                                                                          
Civil work                                             0.34  0.34  0.38  0.55  0.79  1.03  2.11  3.20  5.78  8.37 10.99    0 o
Oth.proJ.c.                                            0.01  0.52  o.63  1.15  1.2$  1.83  1.96  2.55  2.68  3.15  3.31
total                                 0.35  0.86  1.01  1.70  2.04  2.86  4.07  5.75  E.46 11.,2 1'3.O0






IIB-                           112                                                        124                           Iis DECEMBER 1973
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                       PHILIPPINES
CITY OF MANILA    35 AKLAN                                                                                            PROJECT
36. ANTIQUE                                                      POPULATIONPRJC
1. AGRA                37. ILOILO
2. ILOCOS NORTE        3. CAPIZ                            | .* .I
-    ILOCOSSUR           3  NEGROSOCCIDENTAL                   -                                        -        PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
4. LA UNION            40 ROMBLON                                -   Ao                                    REGIONAL HEALTH BOUNDARIES
5. MOUNTAIN PROVINCE
S. BENGUET                                              2                                                           H          S
7. IFUGAO              41. BOHOL                        2              1                             A     REGIONAL TRANING CENTERS
i. KALINGA-APAYAO      42. CEBU                      .         8
43. NORTHERN LEYTE
9. BATANES             44. SOUTHERN LEYTE
1QL CAGAYAN             45 EASTERN SAMAR                                                                    NOTE: SEE TEXT FOR LOCATION OF
11. ISABELA             46. ESEGROSORIENTAL                                                                       RURAL HEALTH UNITS
1Z NUEVAVIZCAYA         4.7 NORTHERNSAMAR              S
45. WESTERN SAMAR3
11 BATAAN                                             I  ^     / 7
14. WULACAN                              Son frnrrd    *
15. NUEVA ECIJA         49. AGUSAN OEL NORTE        0 .'
616. PAMPANGA             Sl SUKIONON                  ,
17. PANGASINAN          51. LANAO DEL NORTE                      12
18. TARLAC              52. LANAO DEL SUR
19. ZAMBALES            53. MISAMIS OCCIDENTAL             - .  1                                                                              0
54. MISAMIS ORIENTAL  .17
55. SURIGAO DEL NORTE    II                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
20 BATANGAS             56. SURIOAODEL NOR               *   Io
21. CAVITE              so, SURIGAO DEL SUR          16  '             ivISO 
22 LAGUNA               67. AGUSAN DEL SUR        .                                                                   ixILOIETtems
23 MARINDUQUE           S8 CAMIGUIN         m    m----
24. MINDORO OCCIDENTAL                                       14
26. MINDORO ORIENTAL                                 -   ,2
26. PALAWAN            5G. COTABATO                  13MANL   OonCity
27. QUEZON              Ca OAVAO DEL NORTE             MANI         .
2E. RIZAL               61. ZAMBOANGA DEL NORTE                       ' .VI                                          Pacif                          14
-'. ALBAZ 62 ZAMBOANGA DEL SUR                             21 '/
2tt. ALSAY              63 SULU                  *2..2  .,3
SQ CAMARINES NORTE    64, COTABATO DEL SUR                      \-                                                                    1
31. CAMARINESSUR        65. DAVAODELSUR                                                                     32               Oce       n
32. CATANDUANES         66. DAVAO ORIENTAL
33. MASBATE                                                                                  31
34. SORSOGON
29
2"26       "''               ,    peqt
24
34
South  Chin7a                            .                              40
.ea  ~.  .                                        3247
~~3B  -~ ~~3
/   36    37                 }\   43-*TodoBon
36 371 
39                           44
Sv/u  Seoaattg4   s 
26  1r-- r           E          -                 57
-S   hr  Inusi,nesda,k, XsI,X,I   Ibis Ilap dI., ,- -'                                       62        '       52  .t-a
Dinrl   c'ndc,rsic,l,en    el aclptanee  bv  She, -'I
Puero PnCotoooO                                 * 
C HI|NA            TAIWAN                                                  OS'
Ocean~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
"4s        Sel/Zh     _                                                                                             ' S         6a
tit,
4 v  CA,Po    53iIFINES                                                                                    --~
^tEP:()     SeW                                                      63                                          ! I      
W-1dt 0 k0 . fl jU.                                                                                                             0
8R44                                                            Ce/ebes  Sea                                   '                      E
MAEAY SIlA 
C NOONE H I                                                            122N                         124'                       D I



