                                           Cambodia

                                Structural Adjustment   Credit
                                  Credit Number 33231KH
              Release of the Second Tranche and Waiver of Two Conditions


                                        I. Summary

1       On February 29, 2000, the Board of Executive Directors approved the Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) for the Kingdom of Cambodia in the amount of SDR 21.9
million (US$30 million equivalent at the time of the Credit approval) to be disbursed in
three tranches. The first tranche of SDR 7.3 million      (US$lO million  equivalent) was
disbursed on May 3, 2000.       The floating tranche of SDR 3.6 million     (US$5 million
equivalent) was released on September 11, 2001. The Kingdom of Sweden (through
SIDA) is co-financing the SAC program. The second tranche release of the SIDA grant
(US$1.6 million   equivalent) is conditional upon the completion of the actions for the
second tranche release under the SAC.

2       This memorandum summarizes recent.economic developments and discusses the
progress made in fulfilling   the conditions for the release of the second tranche of the
SAC.    It concludes that the Borrower has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic
policy framework, achieved satisfactory progress in carrying out the overall program with
respect to public resource management, public sector management, and enhancing
governance and fighting corruption, and completed six of the eight specific actions for
second tranche release as required under Part A of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit
Agreement.    One condition related to the Law on Investment has only been partially
completed, because after a process of extensive, additional consultation with the private
sector, the precise formulation for the revised Law submitted to the National Assembly
was changed from the language inserted into the tranche condition.      Another condition
related to the social sector disbursement ratio was also only partially met because flood-
related expenditures raised non-social       sector spending in    an unanticipated,   but
appropriate, amount. The Government is continuing to support the thrusts of these two
conditions by making the investment incentive regime more transparent and predictable,
and by further reorienting expenditures to the social sectors.

3       In the light of satisfactory overall performance, it is proposed that waivers be
granted on a no-objection basis for the above actions in order to release the second
tranche of the Credit, in the amount of US$15 million equivalent.

                                      II. Background

4.      After almost three decades of armed conflict, significant progress has been made
since the formation of the Royal Government in 1993 in stabilizing the economy, in

                                            2


restoring economic growth, and in undertaking policy reforms to transform the economy
into a market-oriented one.    Despite the progress made over the past several years,
Cambodia still remains one of the poorest countries in Asia. Its 13 million citizens have
an average per capita income of US$280, one of the lowest in the region, and poverty is
pervasive across the country, in particular in the rural areas. According to the recent
National Poverty Reduction Strategy (NPRS), 36 percent of the population is in poverty.

5.      The SAC program has been formulated under the overarching framework of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FYOO-03. IDA has been closely collaborating
with the IMF which had a parallel PRGF program in place. The SAC program aimed to
help push forward the Government reform agenda, with an emphasis on institutional
underpinning, in the following three areas: (a) improving public resource management
which includes resource mobilization    and forestry management; (b) enhancing public
sector management, which comprises expenditure rationalization and preparatory steps
for  military  demobilization   and administrative  reform;   and (c) formulating    and
implementing a strategy on enhancing governance and fighting corruption in economic
management.

6       The IDA    and IMF Boards endorsed Cambodia's Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) in January 2001 and PRSP Preparation Status Report in January
2002. The Government completed the first full PRSP, called National Poverty Reduction
Strategy (NPRS), in late December 2002. The full PRSP (25360~KH) was endorsed by
the IDA and IMF Boards in February 2003 as a credible poverty reduction strategy that
provides a sound basis for Fund and IDA concessional assistance. The CAS for 2004-
2008, based on the full PRSP, is currently under preparation.

               III. Overall Conditions for the Second Tranche Release

7       Pursuant to Part (d) of Section 2.02 of Article II of the Development Credit
Agreement, release of the second tranche requires compliance with overall conditions of
(i) macroeconomic framework satisfactory to IDA        and (ii) overall progress on the
program as set out in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) satisfactory to IDA, in
addition to compliance with the specific second tranche release conditions

                            A. Macroeconomic     Framework

8.      Macroeconomic     developments have been satisfactory. The IMF's          Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program, focusing on fiscal and financial sector
reform, has been on track. The last installment of the PRGF was released in February
2003 and a new PRGF program is being considered.

9       During the SAC implementation period (2000-2003),        the economy grew at a
robust rate of about 6 percent per annum, despite severe floods in 2000-2001, driven
mainly by strong exports of garments, and also tourism and construction. GDP grew at
7.0 percent in 2000, 5.7 percent in 2001, and 5.5 percent in 2002.       The economy is
projected to slow down in 2003 (4.8 percent growth) due to adverse effects of anti-Thai
riots in January, the regional SARS outbreak in early 2003, and uncertainties in the run-

                                                                        3


up to the national election held in July and subsequent delay in forming                                                     a new
government.

                                       Table 1: Macroeconomic             Indicators, 199912003

                                                                                                 SAC Implementation   Period

                                                                                 1999      2000         2001          2002       2003
                                                                                                                        Est.      Proi.
Real GDP       Growth   (%)                                                       10.8        7.0         5.7            5.5        4.8
Inflation   (end-of-period)                                                       -0.5       -0.8         0.7            3.7        2.2
Broad    Money    Growth    (%)                                                   17.3      26.9         20.4          31.1         7.5


Budget   Revenue     (% of GDP)                                                   10.2       10.4        10.7           11.2       10.4
Budget   Expenditure      (% of GDP)                                              14.1       15.3        16.3           17.9       18.1
Current   Budget    Balance   (% of GDP)                                           1.6        1.4         1.1            1.2        0.0


Export   of Goods    (US$   Mn.  excluding   re-export)                           921      1,206       1,295          1,659      1,926
Import   of Goods    (US$   Mn. retained    import)                            -1,219     -1,662      -1,809         -2,23 1    -2,480
External    Current  Account    Deficit  (% of GDP)                             -10.6      -12.3         -9.6         -10.2      -11.0
Gross    Official Reserves   (in months    of imports)                             2.9        2.6         2.8            3.0        2.7
Official  Exchange      Rate (end-of-period,   Riels/US$)                       3,775      3,910       3,900          3,942      4,095

Sources:    Data provided    by the Cambodian      authorities


10             Budgetary               performance             continued to improve.       The      overall        fiscal    deficit
(excluding grants) was limited to around 6 percent of GDP during 2000-2002, while the
current surplus was maintained at around 1.0-1.5 percent of GDP. In 2003, the fiscal
deficit is projected to widen to around 7 percent of GDP in 2003 due to the revenue
shortfall associated with the slowdown of the economy as explained in para 9. Despite
shortfalls in customs revenue, government revenue was at around lo-11 percent of GDP
during 2000-2002, reflecting improved collection of domestic taxes and non-tax revenue.
Overall expenditure was contained below budget targets, thus contributing                                                    to the
avoidance of domestic financing.

11.            Monetary policy was prudent. Due to strict budgetary discipline, inflation was
close to zero during 2000-2001, and around 4 percent in 2002, and around 3 percent in
2003. External developments were on track. While there was a marked slowdown in the
growth of garment exports since mid-2001, the external current account deficit was
contained at around 1l-13                                 percent of GDP (excluding grants). Gross international
reserves reached about 3 months of imports of goods and services. The riel continued to
be stable in U.S. dollar terms.

12             Thus, the key components of the macroeconomic                                 policy framework               - fiscal
policy,          monetary              policy and exchange rate policy, are being implemented                                  in a
manner satisfactory to IDA.

                                        B. Progress in Carrying out Overall Program

13              Cambodia's progress in carrying out the overall program has been satisfactory.
This is described below in respect of the broad areasthat were covered by the program:

forestry management, public revenue management, public sector management, and
governance diagnostics.

14       Forestry Management.      Forestry is a central part of the Government's SAC-
supported reform program. In 1997/98, just prior to the SAC-supported program, an IDA
report estimated illegal logging at 4 million cubic meters per year, a rate of exploitation
that would have exhausted the forest in 5 years. Contributing to this was an inadequate
forest concession system, poor enforcement, and a weak and ambiguous legal and
institutional framework. The government program since then has reduced illegal logging,
although illegal logging does still persist and tensions remain within the Government on
the pace and specifics of the program. Government actions to crack down on illegal
logging, have included, for example, cancellations of concessions, seizure of logging
equipment, joint operations with the military against suspected illegal logging, and the
recruitment of an independent monitor of forest crimes reporting. The forest concession
system has been reduced in area from 6.4 million      hectares to 2.5 million hectares and
concession logging is currently under suspension as planning and reviews proceed. One
million   hectares of areas formerly under concession have been established as legally
protected forests (Cardamom Mountains, Preah Vihear and Mondulkiri)          with severely
restricted access for logging.     Drafts   of  strategic forest management plans and
environmental     and social impact assessments were disclosed for the first time in
Cambodia, and this has enabled some public oversight over the concession process.
Documents have also been released in affected districts and communes, and the
Government has begun a program of more extended consultation and discussion of its
plan review and consideration process. A draft model contract has been prepared and
will be used as the basis for finalizing    new contracts with concessionaires once the
strategic forest management plans have been approved and compartment and coupe plans
based on those strategic plans have been prepared. A new Forest law, designed to
strengthen enforcement efforts, and Sub-Decrees on Community          Forestry and Forest
Concession Management have provided an institutional and legal framework required for
sustainable forest management.

15.      However, these achievements have taken 33 months longer than originally
anticipated under the SAC-supported program.         The first delays were occasioned by
irregularities discovered in the management of forestry revenues. These discrepancies
were discussed with the Government and in some cases mitigating measures were taken,
including tightening procedures to channel funds into the Treasury. In December 2002,
following    a clash between police and demonstrators in front of the Department of
Forestry and Wildlife,     the Government     announced its intention      to terminate its
recognition of Global Witness as independent monitor of forest crimes reporting, which
was made effective in April 2003. Continued allegations of illegal logging, corruption,
vulnerability   of forest dependent populations and mismanagement of forest resources
have persisted, and these have undermined confidence in the Government's achievements
and commitment.       In response to these setbacks, the SAC was extended to give the
Government more time to addressthe specific concerns raised about its forestry program.
On November 25, 2003, the Government signed a new contract with another outside
independent monitor, Societe Generale de Surveillance, Sp. A. under terms of reference

                                             5


reviewed by a multi-donor      working group on natural resource management after an
international competitive bidding process. Notwithstanding the continued complexities
in reforming this sector and problems with the management of forest resources, sector
reform is moving ahead with significant implementation of the framework now in place.
As outlined above and detailed in paras 33, 36, and 39 below, IDA is satisfied with the
progress achieved in the forestry sector reform program as spelled out in specific
conditions and as described by the Government in the Letter of Development Policy. The
Government has also agreed to an extension of the Forest Concession Management and
Control Pilot project for 18 months (through end-June 2005) which will contribute to the
implementation and sustainability of the actions supported by the SAC.        A multi-donor
forestry sector review is ongoing with Bank involvement and will contribute to a stronger
dialogue between the Government and donors and to identification of a future assistance
program for the sector.

16.     Public Revenue Management.       There has been satisfactory progress in increasing
revenue and improving efficiency of the system. Cambodia increased the share of total
revenue in GDP from 8.4 percent in 1998-99 to around 10-l 1 percent in 2000-02, mainly
due to expansion of the tax base. This was helped no doubt by the replacement of the
turnover tax with the value added tax (VAT), because the latter covered all incorporated
businesses.    The amendment. of the Law on Investment, approved in 2003, which
rationalized tax incentives, is also expected to contribute to revenue increases in future.
Overall, these policy measures raised revenue and improved the efficiency of the tax
system. Better use of pre-shipment inspection services also helped to improve collections
and speed up shipment, but problems remain with regard to informal charges at customs
and ports that shippers have to pay. However, Cambodia had less successin its efforts to
improve tax administration. The Technical Cooperation Action Program (TCAP) adopted
in 2001 contributed to some improvements, but the binding constraint lay in the
inadequate number of professional tax and customs collectors and the incentive structure
under which such personnel operated.

17      Public Sector Management.      The Government sought to reorient public spending
and manage it more efficiently,    and there was satisfactory progress in respect of this
aspect of the Government's overall program.     There was significant improvement in the
alignment of public expenditures with the development objectives: allocations for 4 key
sectors, notably education and health, rose from 2.0 percent of GDP in 1999 to 3.6
percent of GDP in 2002 (see Table 2 in para 47). However,                problems of cash
management have delayed releases of these allocations, until late in the year, thereby
muting somewhat the full impact of these increased allocations. Given the existing
weaknesses in budgetary data systems, the Government has initiated an expenditure
tracking study to trace actual spending on health and education, from the center down to
the local level. To improve the effectiveness of such spending, initial steps have also been
taken to    improve   linkages between planning     and budget execution, through the
development of a medium-term expenditure framework, but a good deal more remains to
be done. The recent Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure Review
(IFAPER) completed in September 2003 has identified a substantial unfinished agendaof

                                                6


reforms to improve public expenditure management and effectiveness of expenditure
policy.

18     Reductions in public spending on defense and security from around 4 percent of
GDP in 1998 to 2.8 percent in 2002, together with increases in revenue (as reported in
para 16 above) permitted the reorientation of public spending towards priority programs.
As a result of the first phase of the full scale demobilization program, the military payroll
stood at just over 112,000 in September 2002, down from 164,000 before demobilization
began. Those removed included over 15,000 ghost soldiers, more than 8,000 widows
transferred to the Ministry    of Women and Veterans, and 1,500 soldiers demobilized
under the pilot     project, and 15,000 mainly          elderly, sick,  and disabled soldiers
demobilized under the first phase of the full scale program.           The full scale program,
which is being supported by IDA through a Demobilization             and Reintegration Project,
was based on a review of the experience of a pilot project carried out in full consultation
with donors, NGOs and civil society. The pilot project and the discharge of the first
15,000 soldiers     were    completed     satisfactorily.  However,    the  second phase of
demobilization   under which a further 15,000 soldiers will          be discharged, has been
postponed pending resolution of procurement-related issues under the IDA credit, and
submission of audits. The Government has stated their commitment to resolving these
issues and continuing with demobilization in the near future. The Ministry of National
Defense with the support of Australia (AusAID) has also completed the preparation of a
white paper on long term national defense policy.

19      Governance      Diagnostics    and    Dissemination.     In   addition  to   improving
governance in respect of forestry, public revenue management, and public                 sector
management, the program sought to prepare detailed diagnostics on governance through
surveys, and to disseminate the findings of that diagnostic and the resulting action plan.
This was done, as described in detail in section IV.       In addition, more detailed work has
been carried out in respect of how governance factors impinge on the private sector,
especially exporters and investors' decisions because of high unofficial payments and
long delays i.e., the Integrated Framework trade diagnostics completed in 2002, and the
ongoing Investment Climate Assessment that is nearing completion.           Both of these show
clearly what action needs to be taken in order to improve the climate for private investors
and the competitiveness      of Cambodian exporters, currently being undermined by
governance problems.

20      Despite this significant progress in diagnosing the problems and disseminating the
findings as well as in developing consensus among Cambodians and other development
stakeholders on the actions needed, implementation of actions to improve governance has
been relatively slow.

21      As described above and while recognizing that there has been slower than
expected progress on implementation of some aspects of the program, IDA is satisfied
with the overall progress on the program as set out in the LDP.

                   IV. Specific Conditions for Second Tranche Release

22.     Pursuant to Part A of Schedule 2 of the Devel .opment Credit Agreement, release
of the second tranche requires that IDA be satisfied with the following       specific eight
conditions    in the areas of revenue mobilization,       expenditure rationalization,  and
enhancing governance and fighting corruption.

                                 A. Revenue Mobilization

23      There are two second tranche release conditions on revenue mobilization.        The
first condition is as follows:

The Borrower has submitted for adoption by the National Assembly an amendment to
Article 14 of the Law on Investment, and introduced related measures, acceptable to the
Association and in form and substance consistent with paragraph 8 of the Letter, with a
view to rationalizing     the incentive regime inherent in the Law on Investment and
eliminating distortions thereunder.

24.     According to paragraph 8 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Government
was committed to amending the Law on Investment with the following          main elements:
(a) elimination   of the special 9 percent corporate tax rate for all new investment and
phasing the 9 percent rate out to the standard 20 percent under the Law on Taxation for
the next five years for existing approved and operational projects; (b) elimination of the
tax free reinvestment of profits and introduction of an appropriate investment allowance
in the Law on Taxation at a rate to be determined, satisfactory to IDA, and applicable to
all qualifying investment, new or expansion, irrespective of source of finance, without
evaluation; (c) repeal of the current tax holiday provisions and the introduction of a three
year tax holiday, conditional on annual certification of compliance, to all qualifying new
investment, without evaluation; the use of a tax holiday will deny the tax payer any
benefits available under the Law on Taxation during the tax holiday including initial
investment allowance as well as accelerated depreciation allowance; all current tax
holidays   provided under the Law       on Investment     will be grandfathered; and (d)
elimination   of the right to the tax free repatriation of earnings and other incomes by
approved enterprises.

25      Parts (a), (b), and (d) of this condition     have been fully met.     A waiver is
sought for part (c) of this condition, which has not been met. A bill to amend the Law
on Investment was submitted to the National Assembly, and subsequently adopted in
February 2003. The submitted bill,       and the adopted amended Law on Investment,
includes the following elements regarding the conditionality:

(a) The new clause "A qualified investment project shall be subject to a profit tax rate
after its tax exemption period as determined in the Law on Taxation" was introduced,
replacing the previous clause "A corporate tax rate of 9% except tax rate on the
exploration and exploitation of natural resources, timber, oil, mines gold, and precious
stones which shall be set in separate laws. "

                                               8



  (b) The previous clause "In the event profits are reinvested in the country, such profits
  shall be exemptedfrom all corporate tax" was dropped.

  (c) The new clause "A qualified investment project (QZP) shall be entitled to exemption
 from the tax on profit imposed under the Law on Taxation for a tax exemption period.
  The tax exemption period is composed of a Trigger Period + 3 years -+ n years (n shall
  be determined in the Financial     Management Law). The maximum allowable Trigger
  Period is to be first year of profit or three years after the QIP earns it first revenue,
  whichever is sooner. " was introduced, replacing the previous clause "A corporate tax
  exemption of up to 8 years depending on the characters of the project and the priority of
  the government which shall be mentioned in a Sub-Decree."

  (d) The previous clause "Non-taxation on the distribution       of dividends or profits or
  proceeds of investments, whether transferred abroad or distributed in the country"      was
  dropped.

  26      While the spirit of  part (c) has been met, the specific proposal in the second
  tranche condition was to apply a 3-year tax holiday without evaluation.            This was
  modified after extensive consultations with the private sector, prior to submission of the
  bill to the National Assembly.     The Government wished to have some flexibility         in
  determining the length of the tax holiday (rather than uniform 3 years) in consideration of
  strategic importance of each investment project based on pre-set explicit criteria. IDA
  concurred with it as the amended clause provides significantly enhanced transparency
  and predictability in investment incentives (the main thrust of the conditionality) and also
  as the consensus will      ensure higher compliance from       the private   sector in the
  implementation    of the Law.   The Government is continuing its efforts to make the
  investment incentive system more transparent and predicable. The Bank is supporting
  the Government's efforts with targeted technical assistancefor the preparation of the sub-
  decreefor the amended Law on Investment.

. 27.     "The related measures" referred to changes to other legislation necessary for
  consistency and unambiguity.    The obvious effected legislation is the Law on Taxation.
  The amended Law on Taxation was adopted by the National Assembly in February 2003,
  at the same time as the adoption of the amended Law on Investment.

  28      The second condition on resource mobilization is as follows:

  The Borrower has re-established a system of pre-shipment inspection of imports, on
  terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and in accordance with the policies
  and principles laid down in paragraph 1I of the Letter.

  29      According to paragraph 11 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Government
  was committed to re-establishing the pre-shipment inspection (PSI) system with the
  following main elements: (a) extending the PSI to all imports except for a list of goods
  agreed with IDA;     (b) using pre-shipment inspections valuations for the basis of the

                                              9


import value for customs purposes; and (c) instituting a system of prepayment of customs
duties and other taxes at imports for all sealed containers based on the pre-shipment
inspection report, allowing in principle immediate clearance of such containers without
inspection on arrival, within the framework of risk management system, whose criteria
are satisfactory to IDA.

30       This condition   has been met.     PSI was reinstated in October 2000 with the
following elements regarding the conditionality:

(a) The only exemptions are for cigarettes, shipments below a threshold of $4,000 (the
latter is normal in PSI contracts), imports for investment companies, diplomatic missions,
as well as precious metals (e.g., gold), temporary imports.

(b) Pre-shipment inspection valuations are being used for the basis of the import values
for customs purposes. The only exceptions are for products where the Ministry             of
Economy and Finance has assigned minimum values higher than the PSI valuation for a
few products--the substance of this was to avoid under-valuation.

(c) Duty and taxes are paid at the time of import, based on the PSI Report of Findings. A
system of prepayment is being implemented for companies with good records of law
compliance and reputation within the framework of risk management system of the
Customs and Excise Department.         In some cases, PSI agency's Reports of Findings
(ROFs) are not accurate and sealed containers do not always contain what are indicated in
the ROFs. To strengthen the PSI mechanism, a PSI Steering Committee was established
to addressconcerns, raised by importers and the service provider.

                                 B. Forestry Management

31       There are three second tranche release conditions on forestry management. The
first condition is asfollows:

The Borrower      has satisfied the Association     that it has maintained     its quarterly
publication   on forestry  crime monitoring    and that such publication   has been made
regularly available to the public, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 13 of
the Letter.

32       According   to the paragraph 13 of the Letter of Development            Policy, the
Government was committed to continuing to report quarterly on forest crimes to the
public to provide a firmer basis for further investigations and preventive actions.

33.      This condition    has been met.     The Government established a forest crime
monitoring system composed of units in the Council of Ministers, the Department of
Forestry and Wildlife     (DFW), and the Ministry     of the Environment. Since 1999, the
Government has produced regular reports on the level, type and geographic incidence of
forest crimes including timber theft, arson, land encroachment, and other crimes. The
publication   on forestry crime monitoring      has been made regularly (on a quarterly

                                            10


schedule) to the public through direct distribution to the press, embassies, and others.
Given these arrangements, IDA is satisfied that the specific tranche condition has been
met.

34.     The second condition on forestry management is as follows:

The Borrower has completed aforestry concession review and taken actions based on the
outcome of the review, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 14 of the Letter.

35      According to paragraph 14 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Government
was committed to carrying out a performance review of existing concession contracts and
will  take actions based on the outcome of the review, within           the framework    of
Cambodian law and the existing contracts, by: (a) terminating non-performing contracts,
where appropriate; (b) requiring other concessionaires to present restructuring programs,
satisfactory to IDA; and (c) not awarding any subsequent contracts outside the scope,
rules, and procedures set out in the Sub-Decree on forestry concession management.

36.     This condition has been met. The Government completed a performance review
of forty concession contracts in August 2000 and based on the outcome of the review,
twenty   five  non-performing   contracts were terminated. For the remaining        fifteen
concession contracts, the Government required concessionaires to present restructuring
plans satisfactory to IDA.   However, concessionaires were slow to engage. Accordingly
in December 2001, a Prakas (regulation) of the Ministry      of Agriculture, Forestry, and
Fisheries   suspended operations in     all forest concessions pending settlement on
restructuring programs to be submitted by concessionaires. As a first step towards
restructuring, these concessionaires presented draft strategic forest management plans,
which are in the process of being revised for final review by the Government. Based on
the review of the draft strategic forest management plans, the Government has initiated
actions to terminate seven concession contracts. For the remaining eight, review process
is still underway. Cambodian Forest Law and the Sub-Decree on Forest Concession
Management require preparation of five year compartment plans and annual operating or
"coupe" plans, consultation with concerned stakeholders, and final approval by the
Government before new contracts can be issued and logging can resume. In the
meantime,    logging  and transport of logs remains under suspension in all forest
concessions, except for one stump collection contract to salvage wood from already
logged trees which was awarded in an area where the concession contract was terminated.
In addition, the on-going monitoring under the Forest Concession Management and
Control Pilot Project indicates that no subsequentforestry concessions have been granted
outside of    the terms and conditions     of the Sub-Decree on Forest         Concession
Management.

37.     The third condition on forestry management is as follows:

The Borrower has, following full consultation with stakeholders, and in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 15 of the Letter, submitted for adoption by the National
Assembly a draft law revising the Forest Law, acceptable to the Association, and

                                               11


establishing   clear  responsibility for  forest   management and administration,        and
providing for enforcement authority, inter-sectoral oversight and public accountability.

38       According to paragraph 15 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Government
was committed to adopting a new Forest Law, in full consultation with all stakeholders,
which will clearly establish responsibility for forest management and administration,
provide for enforcement authority, intersectoral oversight, and public accountability.

39.      This condition has been met. The drafting of a new Forestry Law was initiated
in 1994 with FAO technical assistance. After a hiatus, consultations were renewed in
2000/01 through several public workshops, and the draft was made available for public
comment.     NGOs, FAO, and other interested parties submitted comments and revisions
were made. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly in August 2001 and
was signed into law in August 2002. The Law provides a sound legal basis for control,
allocation, and management of the national forest estate, clarifies jurisdiction over forest
areas and parks and protected areas, establishes an administrative structure for forest
management, and provides recognition of         customary property rights.    Special efforts
were made in the drafting process to ensure compatibility     with the Land Law and other
legislation. The Forestry Law is satisfactory to IDA.

                              C. Expenditure    Rationalization

40       There are two second tranche release conditions on expenditure rationalization.
The first condition is as follows:

The Borrower has presented to the Association a draft FY 2001 budget, acceptable to the
Association,   including   budget allocations for, and contents of      the Priority Action
Program     (PAP)   and the Accelerated District       Development (ADD),      and showing
enhanced allocations for health, education, agriculture and rural development sectors in
terms of share of total current expenditures as compared with FY 2000 budget.

41       This condition   has been met.    The budget plan for the 4 key sectors (health,
education, agriculture, and rural development) increased from 299 billion riels to 415
billion riels in the 2001 budget. As a share of total current spending, this is up from
24.6% of current expenditure in the 2000 outturn to 29.2% of the current expenditure in
the 2001 budget. The allocation for Chapter 13 (PAP and ADD) in the 2001 budget was
increased to 76.08 billion riels from 9.5 billion riels in 2000. As the SAC second tranche
was initially  envisaged to be released by March 2001, the program did not include
medium-term conditions beyond 2001. However, as the SAC second tranche release has
been delayed, the Government substantially has increased expenditures for the 4 key
sectors over the SAC implementation period of 2000-2003 as shown in the para 47 and
Table 2.

42.      The second condition on expenditure rationalization is as follows:

                                              12


 The Borrower has submitted to the Association satisfactory evidence in terms of the
formula specified in paragraph 19 of the Letter of Development Policy, to show that: (a)
the ratio of actual disbursements of non-wage operating expenditures for          the health,
education, agriculture and rural development sectors combined during FY 2000 have
been not less than the corresponding ratio for    the remaining sectors combined; and (b)
actual disbursements for   the Accelerated District Development (ADD) program during
the sameperiod have been not less than the corresponding budget allocation.

43       According to paragraph 19 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Government
was committed to the following:

In the past, diversions of budgeted amounts away from the priority           sectors toward
defense, security, and other public activities--together with continued revenue shortfalls--
have been a major reason for low implementation in the key economic and social sectors.
In the years 2000-2002, the Royal Government will take increased measures to ensure
that the budgeted amounts in these priority sectors are in fact realized to the fullest extent
possible. Toward this end, the Royal Government will provide IDA              with evidence
 showing that the ratio of actual disbursements of non-wage operating expenditures (total
current expenditure minus chapter 10) to the combined budgetary allocations for key
 social and economic sectors (i.e., health, education, agriculture, rural development) has
been no less than the corresponding ratio for the rest of the sectors combined. In addition,
the Royal Government will provide IDA with evidence showing that actual disbursement
in riel amounts for the ADD program has been no less than the budget allocation.

44.      This condition  has not been met, and a waiver is sought.        The thrust of this
 condition was to protect the disbursement to the key social and economic sectors as
 compared with the budget allocation at least on par with the rest of the sectors so that,
 when combined with the Board condition on enhanced 2000 budget allocation for key
 sectors, it would contribute to expenditure reorientation toward key sectors. Regarding
 the element (a) of the conditionality,   the ratio of actual disbursement to the budget
 allocation for the four key sectors combined was 83.1%, as compared with                  the
 corresponding ratio of 89.1% for the remaining sectors combined.

 45      There were two main reasons for this: emergency post-flood rehabilitation needs
 and weak absorptive capacity. First,      Cambodia was hit by severe floods in July-
 November 2000, the worst in 70 years. Some 30 percent of rice fields were damaged,
 major parts of roads and irrigation facilities were washed away, and many schools and
 hospitals were damaged. Total damage was estimated at around $180 million (5 percent
 of GDP). As a result, the Government had to divert cash from the allocated social sector
 outlays to the emergency post-flood rehabilitation needs. A substantial part of the post-
 flood rehabilitation outlays were of a social expenditure nature and if they had been
 properly classified as the social sector outlays in the budget table, this condition could
 have been met outright.    Second, in early 2000 the Government established the Budget
 Strategy and Enforcement Center (BSEC) at the Ministry of Economy and Finance as a
 one-stop shop to streamline the screening of bids for funding, and facilitate cash
 disbursement to key social and economic sectors. The role of BSEC was to facilitate the

                                              13


operation of the new Priority Action Program (PAP) based on advance payment of
budget allocations on a quarterly basis, with post-audit replacing pre-audit.    However,
PAP started almost four months late in September 2000. This was due mainly to
communication problems regarding financial procedures, coordination failures, and some
coordination   breakdown between the BESC           and the Ministry    Health.  Provincial
department directors were very cautious and slow in using the PAP fund even when the
PAP installments had been already released from the National Treasury and deposited in
their accounts, as they were not familiar with post-audit system.

46      In 2002, the situation improved compared with 2000, but still the disbursement
ratio for the four key sectors was 91.9% as compared with the corresponding ratio of
94.8% for the remaining sectors combined. The main reasons for this were: (i) the
Government set too ambitious social sector expenditure targets in the budget; and (ii)
weak capacity of line ministries to develop expenditure programs and to adopt associated
regulations.

47.     Although this conditionality    was not met in terms of the specific quantitative
indicator, the thrust of the conditionality   (protection of social sectors against revenue
shortfalls, and increase in disbursements to these sectors) has been satisfied. There has
been significant    improvement     in expenditure reorientation toward key social and
economic sectors since 1999 (see Table 2). Expenditure for the four key sectors was
increased substantially as a ratio of GDP from 2.0% in 1999 to 2.3% in 2000, 2.9% in
2001, and 3.6% in 2002. In contrast, defense and security expenditure was decreasedas
a ratio of GDP from 3.9% of GDP in 1999 to 3.5% in 2000, 3.0% in 2001, and 2.8% in
2002.

                     Table 2: Expenditure Reorientation,     1999-2003

                      1999         2000        2001        2002    1  2003    1
                     Outcome     Outcome     Outcome     Outcome     Budget
                                                                   I
4 key sectors a/       20.           23.        29.         36.        38.
(% of GDP) -
Defense/security       3.9           35.        30.         28.        23.
(% of GDP)

-a/health, education, agriculture, rural development

48      Regarding the element (b) of the conditionality, the actual disbursement for ADD
in `2002 was 4,691 million    riels as compared to the budget allocation of 6,000 million
riels due to the reasons explained in the paragraph. 45.       ADD program is for a cash
advance system for district health centers. The Government introduced the Priority
Action Program (PAP)--cash advance system to health and education sectors--to extend
the thrust of the ADD        to more comprehensive PAP with          a view  to enhancing
disbursement to key social sectors. Spending for PAP in 2000 was 890 million riels. The
combined ADD        and PAP actual spending for 2000 was 5,581 million           riels. The

                                              14


  Government is committed to continuing expenditure reorientation toward key social
  sectors as committed in the PRSP. The Bank is continuing the policy dialogue to ensure
  adequate budget disbursement to key social sectors, including        the ADD     and PAP
  programs, among others, in the context of the recently completed Integrated Fiduciary
  Assessment and Public Expenditure Review (IFAPER).

                    D. Enhancing Governance and Fighting Corruption

  49.      The second tranche release condition is as follows:

  The Borrower has,following full consultations with stakeholders, and in accordance with
  the provisions of paragraph 34 of the Letter: (a) conducted surveys on governance and
  corruption, and, on the basis thereof prepared a diagnosis and formulated a national
  action plan acceptable to the Association; (b) disseminated the findings of the surveys
* and details of the national action plan; and (c) begun implementation of the national
  action plan.

  50.      Paragraph 34 is as follows:

  As important    steps toward these objectives, with assistance from IDA,        the Royal
  Government carried out governance/corruption surveys involving citizens, government
  officials, and private enterprises. Based on the survey results, the Government will:   (a)
  prepare a diagnosis; (b) formulate a National Action Plan based on the results of these
  surveys and those sponsored by other donors, in close consultation with the private
  sector, NGOs, and the donor community;       (c) disseminate the findings of the surveys
  along with an action plan to the government officials, the public, and local press; and (d)
  begin implementation of the action plan.

  51       This condition  has been met.     The Government commissioned a local NGO,
  Lidee Khmer, to carry out a diagnostic study on governance and corruption in 1999-2000.
  The surveys were conducted in November/December 1999. The study included three
  surveys of citizens, enterprises and public officials     concerning their perceptions of
  corruption problems in the public sector. The diagnostic surveys generateduseful data to
  diagnose the extent of governance and corruption problems in the public sector in
  Cambodia. Based on the analysis of the survey results, a report was prepared in May
  2000, entitled "Cambodia:       Governance and Corruption Diagnostic:      Evidence from
  Citizen, Enterprise and Public Official Surveys."      The Government prepared an initial
  draft of a Governance Action Plan (GAP) and presented it at the Consultative Group
  meeting in May 2000. The initial draft of GAP built on the analysis and findings of a
  number of studies, including       the diagnostic study mentioned above, a study on
  governance and sustainable development carried out by the Cambodia Development
  Resource Institute (CDRI) with financial support from the ADB, and many other reports
  prepared by other donors. Since then, the Government has held extensive consultations
  with many donors, NGOs, and the private sector before finalization        of the GAP and
  approval by the Council of Ministers in March 2001. The Government organized a
  National Forum in December 2001 to start disseminating the GAP and the diagnostic

                                            15


report on governance and corruption. The forum was chaired by the Prime Minister and
was attended by ministers, senior civil servants from all over the country, and external
stakeholders, totaling some 700 participants.    It was followed by four workshops in
provinces targeting public officials (some 900 participants) and external stakeholders
(donors, NGOs, academia, and the press) in the first half of 2002. The Government has
begun implementing GAP since its official adoption in March 2001. While some actions
have already been completed, several others are in the process of being implemented.
Significant progress has been made in some areas, including           public finance, but
implementation in other areas, particularly for legal and judicial reform, has been slow.
The progress of actions in GAP was reported to the public in the Government's biannual
GAP Progress Reports in June and December 2001.            The Government is currently
preparing the second GAP with more focus on legal andjudicial reform.

