Report No. PID8403
Project Name                     Cambodia - Structural Adjustment Credit (@)
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Sector                           Macroeconomic - structural adjustment
Project ID                       KHPE58544
Borrower(s)                      Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Street 92 Sangkat Wat Phnom
Khan Daun Penh
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Tel:     (85) 5-23460159
Fax:     (85) 5-23427798
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 22, 2000
Projected Board Date             February 29, 2000
Background
After almost three decades of armed conflict, Cambodia remains one of the
poorest countries in Asia. Its 11 million citizens have an average per capita
income of US$290, and 36 percent of them live below the poverty line.
Poverty is concentrated in the rural areas, and rural poverty is four times
higher than the 11 percent poverty incidence in Phnom Penh.
Unsettled politics still shapes policy and economic performance. The formation
of the Royal Government--a coalition government--in 1993 allowed the country
to stabilize the economy, restore economic growth, and begin reforms to
transform the economy into a market-oriented one. Since 1996, however,
tensions between the two main coalition partners over power sharing
escalated, and culminated in July 1997 when the First Prime Minister was
ousted by force. The Government's reform efforts weakened, serious fiscal and
governance problems again surfaced, and the economy deteriorated. Many donors
suspended all but humanitarian assistance. After a long political stalemate,
the elections were held in July 1998 for the National Assembly. A new
coalition Government emerged in November 1998 and politics has become more
stable. The security situation has also improved significantly following the
mass defection of the former Khmer Rouge soldiers. The new Government is
keenly aware of the need to improve macroeconomic policies, mobilize resources
for investment, rationalize expenditures, and address governance problems as a
way of starting the country down a path to sustainable growth.
At the third CG meeting held in February 1999, Prime Minister Hun Sen
reiterated the Government's commitment to such a program. Donors were
encouraged with the Government's recent actions and have signaled a
willingness to be partners in Cambodia's new development efforts.
Project Objectives
The Government's recent policy actions have created new momentum for reform.
Cambodia is now at a critical juncture in making a transition to sustainable



development. To make a successful transition, the Government must tackle its
underlying governance problems in economic management. IDA has provided fast-
disbursing support in the form of an Emergency Rehabilitation Credit in 1993
and an Economic Rehabilitation Credit in 1995, but without specific
conditionality attached. The SAC program aims to help push forward the
Government reform program in the following three areas, in close collaboration
with IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program. First, the
SAC program aims to assist in improving public resource management which
includes resource mobilization and forestry management. Second, it would
assist in enhancing public sector management which comprises expenditure
rationalization and preparatory steps for military demobilization and
administrative reform. Third, it would assist in formulating a strategy on
enhancing governance and fighting corruption in economic management and
implementing it.
Project Benefits
The SAC would assist the Government in making a successful transition toward
sustainable development with significant poverty reduction and broad-based
economic growth. With full implementation of the SAC program, per capita
income could increase from US$290 in 1999 to US$360 in 2002. In parallel, the
level of poverty could fall from 36 percent in 1999 to 27 percent by 2002.
Furthermore, aid effectiveness would be enhanced and an environment for
private sector development would be improved. Although these potential
outcomes would not just stem from the SAC program implementation, the benefit
of implementing the SAC program would be significant.
Project Risks
There are four main risks: (a) deterioration in political stability; (b)
insufficient political will; (c) weak institutional capacity; and (d) funds
not being used for the purposes intended. First, although armed conflict has
ended, and peace has prevailed for more than a year since the last elections,
there is lingering friction between the Government and opposition party
particularly on issues of governance and accountability. This risk could be
mitigated through promotion of activities that foster greater participation
and transparency. Second, the reform program could slacken if the reforms
encroach on powerful vested interests. This risk could be mitigated through
concerted donor/NGO efforts in monitoring the progress of the reforms. Third,
implementation of a reform program could be delayed because of weak capacity
of public institutions. This risk could be mitigated by: formulating a clear
phased strategy in policy actions; focusing on preparatory steps rather than
the implementation of institutional reforms per se; focusing on a pilot
ministry; increasing flexibility in the timing of reform with a floating
tranche; and assuring that institutional capacity is being built up through
well targeted technical assistance. Fourth, while tracking the usage of funds
will be impracticable, this risk could be mitigated by: monitoring performance
indicators; requiring the Government to submit several reports on a regular
basis; widely disseminating information on the SAC to the public; and
requiring an audit of the Deposit Account to be carried out by independent
auditors.
These risks are not minor. But they are acceptable when viewed relative to
the potential benefits. The next three years constitutes the first serious
opportunity in a generation for Cambodia to launch its development.
- 2 -



Project Financing
The credit amount is SDR 21.9 million (US$30 million equivalent). The credit
would be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche of SDR 7.3 million
(US$10 million equivalent) would become available immediately upon
effectiveness; the second tranche of SDR 11.0 million (US$15 million
equivalent) after a satisfactory review of the implementation of the agreed
actions and achievement of the second tranche release conditions; and the
floating tranche of SDR 3.6 million (US$5 million equivalent) after the
satisfactory review of the implementation of the agreed actions and
achievement of the floating tranche release conditions.
Project Implementation
The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the SAC program.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been placed in
Category C and will not require an environmental assessment.
Poverty Category
While the SAC program does not include programs directly targeting the poor,
it would contribute to improving the access of poor households to basic social
and economic services such as basic education, health facilities, piped water,
rural roads through reorientation of expenditures toward basic health,
education, and rural development.
Project Objective Category
The project is a structural adjustment operation.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Su-Yong Song
Telephone: (202) 458-0498
Note: This is an information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not be included in the final project.
- 3 -



