                                                                                           87724
                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                          International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                       CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                   EDS2000-19
                                                                               February 28, 2000
                                                                                    05:41:46 PM


Statement by Jean-Claude Milleron
Date of Meeting: February 29, 2000

              CAMBODIA - Country Assistance Strategy and Structural Adjustment Credit


        Cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world. It lacks most of the essentials of
development : sound and reliable institutions, basic infrastructure, human capital... Moreover, as
hundreds of donors tend to crowd each other out and overwhelm the already strained capacity of
the government, in Cambodia more than anywhere else, what matters the most is not how much
assistance we are going to provide, but how we are going to deploy it.

        In this respect, the CAS and the SAC we are discussing today deserve to be commended,
on a number of grounds. First of all, both of them provide a very candid assessment of the
terrible situation witnessed on the field, regarding governance and standards of living in
particular. This candor, as well as the willingness of the authorities to allow the translation and
publication of these documents in Cambodia, are an indication that both IDA and the authorities
are fully aware of the magnitude of the challenges they face and are determined to confront
them. Second, beyond the mere description of facts, both the CAS and SAC also provide some
very insightful analysis of the roots of Cambodia’s problems and pave the way for implementing
corrective actions. Much of this can certainly be accounted for by the extensive consultation
process in which Staff engaged while preparing this CAS, which demonstrates the usefulness of
this pioneering approach. Third, I really appreciated the presentation of these documents, which
are both well written and structured, very clear and also quite transparent as far as the underlying
conditionality is concerned. Having said that, I would like to make the following comments.

On SWAPs and selectivity

          I found the concept of sector wide approaches (SWAPs) very thoughtful and well-suited.
Obviously, in a country with so many donors involved and such a weak administrative capacity,
it is of the essence to achieve some more ambitious form of donor coordination. Nevertheless,
there is a clear risk that valuable time and resources get consumed by this process instead of
directly addressing development needs. There is also a risk that, as donors struggle to coordinate,
the provision of assistance gets delayed. This would result in a sudden drop in aid flows which
would be far more detrimental to Cambodia than continued confusion and overlaps within the
donor community. In other words, I think the SWAPs rewards would be high, therefore, they
should be given a chance. Nevertheless, IDA should be prepared to go ahead with its assistance
program if the conditions to do so are fulfilled, even if the SWAP process falls through or gets
stalled.

        As regards the sectoral involvement of IDA, I feel that, once again, selectivity is not
being taken seriously. I also fear there might be some consistency issues in the CAS. The Staff
attempt to justify IDA’s involvement in many sectors by putting forward Cambodia’s "enormous
needs". True, but Cambodia also gets enormous support from the donor community. So, here too
one could argue that the Bank is likely to be more efficient if it is focused, which of course
would not prevent it from participating in policy and strategy discussions with other donors, at
the government’s request. Also, to prevent IDA from getting durably locked in a large array of
sectors as a result of its sponsoring the SWAPs, we expect the Board to be provided with a clear
phase out scheme after the CG meeting.

        Furthermore, if IDA decided to limit somewhat its presence in sectors where it lacks a
comparative advantage, it would be able to dedicate more resources to areas which are crucial for
future development, namely governance and agriculture. As far as governance is concerned, I
very much appreciate the design of the SAC, which is very much focused on governance related
issues, but the magnitude of the problem is such that I cannot help thinking more should have
been done. In particular, IDA should take the lead in the governance SWAP, as its neutrality is
an obvious advantage over other donors, as well as the tools we are currently strengthening. As
regards agriculture, I must confess I am a bit puzzled : on the one hand, we read in the CAS
summary that rural development is only a moderate priority (which, by the way, is at odds with
the conclusions of the recent country assistance evaluation by OED), that no SWAP is envisaged
in the immediate future and that IDA itself won’t have a rural development strategy until 2002,
with no rural development loan until 2003. On the other hand, if the names of the projects shown
in the proposed base-case lending program are not deceiving, close to 41 % of IDA funds will go
to projects related to rural development. Staff’s comments on this apparent inconsistency would
be welcome.

On risk management

        The triggers governing relations between lending scenarios, are well-conceived.
Nevertheless, the analysis of the risks faced by program implementation draws such an appalling
picture that these triggers do not fully tackle the issue of risk management. In particular, they fail
to include specific provisions for monitoring the use of IDA funds, and more generally to
concretely improve the situation on the ground.

         In addition, it would be interesting to know which operations would be cut in priority,
should developments force a move to the low-case scenario. I was also wondering if the triggers
listed in the CAS for moving to the low-case and high-case programs were additional or
alternative. The wording of the report seems to suggest these conditions must be met
simultaneously to trigger a change of scenario, but I would appreciate it if Staff could confirm
that.

On private sector development

        Last, but not least on the CAS, I could not help but note that we were still short of a true
strategy for private sector development. Table 4 : "CAS at a glance" tells it all : where IDA has
developed a full-fledged, thoughtful strategy, IFC and MIGA only show a conceptual vacuum,
filled with the words "demand driven". If we are not able to conceive a private sector
development strategy in a country like Cambodia, one may really wonder how we are ever going
to cope with complex emerging market economies.

On the design of the SAC

        This SAC is a timely and very well-designed operation. But, in addition to the lack of
provisions allowing to effectively mitigate the risks created by the huge governance problems,
which I already mentioned, I have two concerns. First, I fear the revenue side of the program
relies exceedingly on legal improvements, whereas the diagnosis suggests that the most serious
shortcomings reside in the limited implementation capacity of public administration. Arguably, it
would be pointless to improve the legal framework if the means to enforce it are missing.
Secondly, I do not know what weight one should give to the fact that the section on expenditure
comes after the sections on revenues in the presentation of the loan, but, to me, it would be a
major mistake to improve revenue collection without having, first, put expenditure management
in order. Otherwise, any improvement in revenues is likely to be wasted.

        Finally, it would like to raise a more general question. It is mentioned in the CAS that
there income inequalities have increased in the recent past, which could partly offset poverty
reduction efforts if this trend were not reversed or stopped. Since one purpose of the SAC is to
help the authorities design a new public revenue system, I would appreciate to hear Staff’s views
on how the problem of rising inequality might be addressed in this context, as well what the
authorities’ views are on this politically sensitive issue.

        In closing, I would like to reaffirm my support to this CAS and this SAC, and to wish the
authorities success in confronting the many challenges that await them. My best wishes also go
to Mrs. Okonjo-Iweala in her new assignment. She will be a considerable loss for the Bank,
where she has done a very fine job and hopefully will come back to after this new experience.
