Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7359-KH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 21.9 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
February 7, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EVALUATIONS
Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel
AVERAGE VALUE OF USS1.00
IN
1997   1998   1999   Februarv 2000
2,946  3,744   3,785  3,800
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                -      Asian Development Bank
ADD                -      Accelerated District Development
AFTA               -      Asian Free Trade Area
ASEAN              -      Association of South-East Asian Nations
BOP                -      Balance of Payments
CAS                -      Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                -      Council for the Development of Cambodia
CG                 -      Consultative Group
CPIA               -      Country Policy and Institutional Assessments
CPP                -      Cambodia People's Party
CVAP               -      Cambodia Veterans Assistance Program
DFW                -      Department of Forestry and Wildlife
EU                 -      European Union
FAO                -      Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FDI                -      Foreign Direct Investment
FIAS               -      Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FUNCINPEC          -      National Unity Front
GDP                -      Gross Domestic Product
ID                 -      Identification
IDA                -      International Development Association
IFC                -      International Finance Corporation
IMF                -      International Monetary Fund
LDP                -      Letter of Development Policy
LOI                -      Law on Investment
MEF                -      Ministry of Economy and Finance
METR               -      Marginal Effective Tax Rate
MTEF                      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NBC                -      National Bank of Cambodia
NGO                -      Non-Govemmental Organization
ODA                -      Official Development Assistance
PAP                -      Priority Action Program
PER                -      Public Expenditure Review
PFP                -      Policy Framework Paper
PIMS               -      Public Investment Management System
PIP                -      Public Investment Program
PRGF               -      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PSI                -      Pre-shipment Inspections
SAC                -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SEDP               -      Socioeconomic Development Plan
SDR                -      Special Drawing Rights
SWAP               -      Sector-Wide Approach
TA                 -      Technical Assistance
UNDP               -      United Nations Development Program
UNTAC              -      United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia
VAT                -      Value Added Tax
WHO                -      World Health Organization
WTO                -      World Trade Organization
Vice President:                                  Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:                               Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Director:                                Horni Kharas, EASPR
Task Manager:                                    Su-Yong Song, EASPR



KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.      BACKGROUND .........................................................1
IX.   RECENT REFORM PROGRESS AND ECONOMIC PEFORMANCE ....................2
III.    GOVERNMENT'S MEDILJM-TERM  REFORM  PROGRAM ....................................4
IV.    THIE SAC PROGRAiM ........................................................5
A. Public Resource Management: Revenue Mobilization ...........................................6
B. Public Resource Management: Forestry Management ......................................... 11
C. Public Sector Management: Expenditure Rationalization ................................... 14
D. Public Sector Management: Preparatory Steps for Military Demobilization
and Administrative Reform .......................................................      20
E. Enhancing Governance and Fighting Corruption .................................................. 23
V.      THE SAC OPERATION ........................................................                 24
A. Rationale for the Credit .......................................................        24
B. Credit Amount, Disbursement, and Audit .......................................................     25
C. Conditionality and Monitoring .......................................................   26
D. Benefits and Risks .......................................................              28
E. Government Ownership and Donor/Civil Society Collaboration ......................... 30
VI.    RECOMMENDATION .......................................................                      30
ANNEXES
ANNEX   I: Letter of Development Policy ...............................3................................... 31
ANNEX II: Matrix of Policy Actions ...... 45
ANNEX III: Performance Indicators ........ 52
ANNEX IV: TA Matrix .............................................................................................. 55
ANNEX  V: Law on Investment and Marginal Effective Tax Rates .56
ANNEX VI: Statistical Tables ...............................                       . ....... 67
The task team includes Su-Yong Song (Task Manager, EASPR); Bill Magrath (EASES); Andrew Stone (PSDBE), Chris Redfem
(EASRD); Chris Thomas, Vincent Turbat (EASHD); James Crittle (CFAAP); Markus Kostner (SDVPC); Raj Soopramanien
(LEGEA); Mohammed Bekhechi (LEGEN); Omowunmi Lapido (LOAAS); Varga Azad (EASPR); Tom Hart, Bill McCleary,
Geoff Dixon, Young Lee, David Steedman (Consultants). Anne Green provided editorial assistance and Nancy Mensah provided
administrative support. The report has been prepared under the guidance of Homi Kharas (Sector Director, EASPR); Ngozi
Okonjo-Iweala (Country Director, EACSM); and Richard Newfarmer (Lead Specialist, EASPR). Peer reviewers were Luca
Barbone (ECCI 1); Kyle Peters (ECSPE); and Vinaya Swaroop (DECRG).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
t official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



The Kingdom of Cambodia
Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:         The Kingdom of Cambodia
Amount:           SDR 21.9 million (US$30 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with
a maturity of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years.
Description:      Since 1996, the Government's reform efforts weakened due partly to
internal political developments, and fundamental fiscal and governance
problems surfaced. The new Government, which took office in late
November 1998, renewed reform efforts and has recently taken some
notable policy actions. The Government's recent policy actions have
created new momentum for reform. Cambodia is now at a critical juncture
in making a transition to sustainable development. To make a successful
transition, the Government must tackle its underlying governance
problems in economic management.
The SAC program aims to help push forward the Government reform
program in the following three areas, in close collaboration with IMF's
PRGF program. First, the SAC program aims to assist in improving
public resource management which includes resource mobilization and
forestry management. Second, it would assist in enhancing public sector
management which comprises expenditure rationalization and preparatory
steps for military demobilization and administrative reform. Third, it
would assist in formulating a strategy on enhancing governance and
fighting corruption in economic management and implementing it.
Benefits:         The proposed SAC would assist the Government in making a successful
transition toward sustainable development with significant poverty
reduction and broad-based economic growth. Under the CAS base case
scenario which assumes full implementation of the SAC program,
Cambodia would move from the current bottom quintile based on the
country policy and institutional assessments on Bank member countries to
the next quintile so that aid effectiveness would be enhanced.
Furthermore, Cambodia would improve enabling environment for private
sector development through tackling governance problems. While the
SAC program dose not include programs directly targeting the poor, it
would contribute to improving the access of poor households to basic
social and economic services such as basic education, health facilities,
piped water, rural roads through reorientation of expenditures toward basic



ii
health, education, and rural development. According to the CAS base case
scenario, per capita income could increase from US$290 in 1999 to
US$360 in 2002. In parallel, the level of poverty could fall from 36
percent in 1999 to 27 percent by 2002. Although these potential outcomes
would not just stem from the SAC program implementation, the benefit of
implementing the SAC program would be significant.
Risks:              There  are  four  main  risks  concerning  SAC   implementation:
(a)deterioration in political stability; (b) insufficient political will; (c)
weak institutional capacity; and   (d) given the weak governance
environment, funds not being used for the purposes intended. First,
although armed conflict has ended, and peace has prevailed for more than
a year since the last elections, there is lingering friction between the
Government and opposition party particularly on issues of governance and
accountability. Our ability to mitigate these political risks is limited,
except through promotion of activities that foster greater participation and
transparency. Second, the reform program could slacken if the reforms
encroach on powerful vested interests such as the military and businesses.
These risks could be mitigated through concerted donor/NGO efforts in
monitoring  the progress of the reforms.   Third, even with the
Government's full commitment, implementation of a reform program
could be delayed because of weak capacity of public institutions. We aim
to mitigate this risk by: formulating a clear phased strategy in policy
actions; focusing on preparatory steps rather than the implementation of
institutional reforms per se (e.g., administrative and military reform);
focusing on a pilot ministry (e.g., expenditure management); increasing
flexibility in the timing of reform with a floating tranche (e.g., military
demobilization); and assuring that in all the key areas of SAC
implementation, institutional capacity is being built up through well
targeted technical assistance. Fourth, while tracking the usage of funds
will be impracticable, several steps will be taken to mitigate the risk:
performance indicators, which have been developed to effectively measure
progress towards achieving development objectives under the SAC
program, will be monitored rigorously; the Government will be required to
submit several reports on a regular basis; information on the SAC will be
widely disseminated to the public, leading to closer participation in and
monitoring by civil society; and an audit of the Deposit Account will be
required on an annual basis to be carried out by independent auditors,
using acceptable international auditing standards.
These risks are not minor. But they are acceptable when viewed relative
to the potential benefits. The next three years constitutes the first serious
opportunity in a generation for Cambodia to launch its development.
Poverty Category:  The SAC program supports a reorientation of public expenditure toward
basic social and economic services to the poor.



iii
Disbursements:    The credit would be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche of SDR
7.3 million  (US$10 million  equivalent) would become available
immediately upon effectiveness; the second tranche of SDR 11.0 million
(US$15  million  equivalent) after a satisfactory  review  of the
implementation of the agreed actions and achievement of the second
tranche release conditions; and the floating tranche of SDR 3.6 million
(US$5  million  equivalent) after the  satisfactory  review  of the
implementation of the agreed actions and achievement of the floating
tranche release conditions.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
1.    I submit for your approval the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) to the
Kingdom of Cambodia for SDR 21.9 million (US$30 million equivalent). The credit would be
on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and a 10-year grace period. The proposed
operation, the first SAC, is central to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, and is an integral
part of the Government's reform program articulated in the attached Letter of Development
Policy and in the Policy Framework Paper for 1999-2002. The program is also supported by the
IME through a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) approved in October 1999.
I. BACKGROUND
2.    After almost three decades of armed conflict, Cambodia remains one of the poorest
countries in Asia. Its 11 million citizens have an average per capita income of US$290, and 36
percent of them live below the poverty line. Poverty is concentrated in the rural areas, and rural
poverty is four times higher than the 11 percent poverty incidence in Phnom Penh.
3.    Low levels of capital in infrastructure--agriculture and industry--and inadequate human
resources severely constrain Cambodia's development. Most people lack access to potable water
(Table 1). Schools and health clinics destroyed in the war have yet to be rebuilt. Rural areas
lack serviceable roads, irrigation systems, and agricultural extension facilities. High transport
costs, erratic power supply, and poor telecommunications facilities hamper industry and trade.
Years of war have had even more devastating human consequences. More than one-third of
Cambodians are illiterate. One-third of the population over five have had no education, only 20
percent have had schooling beyond the primary level, and only 4 percent have completed lower
secondary education. The infant mortality rate, at 103 per 1,000 live births, is one of the highest
among the countries in the region. 38 percent of children suffer from malnutrition.
4.    Unsettled politics still shapes policy and economic performance. The formation of the
Royal Government in 1993--a coalition government with two co-Prime Ministers from two main
parties, the CPP (Cambodian People's Party) and the FUNCINPEC (National Unity Front), and
another smaller party--allowed the country to stabilize the economy, restore economic growth,
and begin reforms to transform the economy into a market-oriented one. Since 1996, however,
tensions between the two main coalition partners over power sharing escalated, and culminated
in July 1997 when the First Prime Minister was ousted by force. The Government's reform
efforts weakened, serious fiscal and governance problems again surfaced, and the economy
deteriorated. Many donors suspended all but humanitarian assistance. After a long political
stalemate, the elections were held in July 1998 for the National Assembly. A new coalition
Government comprising the CPP and the FUNCINPEC and led by Prime Minister Hun Sen
emerged in November 1998 and politics has become more stable. The security situation has also
improved significantly following the mass defection of the former Khmer Rouge soldiers (see
CAS, February 29, 2000). As demonstrated in the Royal Government of Cambodia's Platform on
Second Term, 1998-2003, the new Government is keenly aware of the need to improve



2
macroeconomic policies, mobilize resources for investment, rationalize expenditures, and
address governance problems as a way of starting the country down a path to sustainable growth.
5.     At the third CG meeting held in February 1999, Prime Minister Hun Sen reiterated the
Government's commitment to such a program. The Public Expenditure Review (18791-KH),
January 8, 1999, presented specific recommendations on revenue mobilization, expenditure
rationalization, and forestry management. Many have been incorporated into the Government's
reform program. Donors were encouraged with the Government's recent actions and have
signaled a willingness to be partners in Cambodia's new development efforts.
Table 1: Economic and Social Indicators: International Comparison a/
Average of Sub- East Asia &
Cambodia Lao PDR Vietnam  Saharan Africa   Pacific
GDP per Capita                  USS          290      330     330           480        990
Infant Mortality           per thou.live births  103   98      29           91         37
Life Expectancy                Years          54       52      66            49         69
Access to safe water        % of population   13      36       41            47         77
Illiteracy Rates            %pop.age 15-      35      43        8            42        15
Gross Primary School Enrollment  % gross      110     109        111         76        117
Agriculture/GDP Ratio            %            51       52      26            18         18
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP Ratio  %            5       1 i     21            17         38
Aid/GDP RaOo                    %              9       23       4           n.a.       n.a.
Aid peT Capita                  uss           29       57      l 5          n.a.       n.a.
Notes:
a/ Most recent data available.
Source:
Statistical Information Management and Analysis, World Bank.
6.     The current economic situation is still precarious. Nonetheless, the Government's recent
policy actions have created new momentum for reformn, and Cambodia is now at a critical
juncture.   If it can fully implement its program  and capitalize on a supportive international
environment, it may be able to unleash a virtuous circle of reforms, rising incomes, and new
opportunities for further reforrms and growth.
II. RECENT REFORM PROGRESS AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
7.     As the political turmoil of the  1 980s subsided, the Royal Government began a
comprehensive reform program in 1993 with substantial support from the donor community.
Fiscal management has been the key factor in reducing the rate of inflation. A doubling of
budgetary revenues as a share of GDP between 1991 and 1994, restraint on the growth of current
expenditures combined with inflows of foreign resources all but eliminated monetary financing
of the budget deficit. Substantial progress has also been made toward a market economy: prices
were freed up; a two-tiered banking system has been introduced; most non-tariff barriers were
eliminated and tariffs were reduced and streamlined; a liberal foreign investment law was put in
place; dollars were allowed to circulate freely, and account for more than 80 percent of
transactions; and the exchange rate was allowed to float with progressively less intervention.
8.     A combination of market reforms, liberalization and stabilization combined with external
assistance has led to economic recovery and a more stable macroeconomic environment. GDP



3
expanded at an average annual rate of about 6 percent during 1991-1996 and inflation, which had
averaged about 140 percent per annum in 1990-1992, was reduced to single digit by 1995 (Table
2). Inflows of foreign direct investment, larger aid flows and improved export performance have
all contributed to an improved balance of payments position and an increase in official reserves.
9.     In 1997-1998, progress on structural reforms stalled. In mid-1996, the ruling coalition
began disintegrating and rival factions checkmated policy reforn. While macroeconomic
stability was largely maintained, little progress was made in addressing fundamental fiscal and
governance problems. Although the Government did improve banking supervision and privatize
some state-owned enterprises, it granted a plethora of tax exemptions and created tax handles to
compensate. Inadequate budgetary expenditures for social and economic infrastructure, owing to
weak revenue mobilization and overTuns in defense expenditures, hampered rapid and broad-
based economic growth. Economic management also suffered from insufficient accountability
and transparency. In particular, the lack of action in implementing a sound forestry management
policy and in channeling forestry revenues into the budget posed serious concerns for sustainable
development. Illegal logging was estimated at least three times higher than a sustainable level.
If this anarchic situation continued, the commercial potential of Cambodia's forest resources
would be exhausted in less than five years.
Table 2: Macroeconomic Indicators, 1991-99
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Est.
Real GDP Growth (%/6)                   7.6   7.0   4.1   4.0   7.6   7.0   1.0   1.0   4.5
Inflation(finalquarterbasis,%)        150.4  112.5  41.0  17.9   3.5   9.0   9.1  12.6   5.0
M2 Growth (%)                          28.6 209.0  40.0  35.6  43.6  40.4  16.6  15.7  18.4
Budget Revenue (% of GDP)               4.4   6.2   5.4   9.6   8.9   9.1   9.7   8.7  11.2
Budget Expenditure (% ofGDP)            7.8   9.8  11.2  16.5  16.7  16.3  13.9  14.8  14.5
CurrentBudgetDeficit(%/oofGDP)         -1.2  -4.3  -1.4  -1.4  -0.7  -0.8   0.7  -0.3   1.7
Export of Goods (US$ Mn., excluding re-export)   81   101   168   234   268   295   534 579.0 548.0
ImportofGoods (US$ Mn., retained import)  113   160  361   509   714   771   799 802.0 898.0
External CurrentAccount Deficit (% of GDP)    -1.5  -2.5  -9.4  -13.1  -16.8  -14.6  -6.8  -8.3  -12.8
Official Exchange Rate (annual avg., Riels/US$)  703  1,253  2,470 2,543  2,451  2,624 2,946 3,744 3,785
Source: Data provided by the Cambodian authorities, and staff estimates.
10.    To make matters worse, in mid-1997, two shocks hit the economy: the political events of
July 1997 and the ensuing suspension of a substantial part of donor assistance, and the regional
financial crisis. Political uncertainty remained through the runup to the elections in July 1998
and stalemate in forming a new coalition government. GDP growth decelerated to 1 percent both
in 1997 and 1998. Capital outflows increased. Inflation doubled to 9 percent in 1997 from the
1995 level and further increased to 13 percent in 1998. The highly dollarized nature of the
economy disciplined monetary policy but also complicated it by magnifying the effects of
monetary expansion on the price level and exchange rate. Budgetary developments in 1998 were
worrisome in that the Government borrowed substantial amounts from the National Bank of
Cambodia (NBC) after having avoided bank financing of the budget deficit since 1994. ODA
and FDI inflows dropped significantly.
11.    The elections of 1998 gave Cambodians a new  opportunity for reforn  and growth.
Taking office in late November 1998, the new Government has taken some notable policy
actions: implementing the value-added tax (VAT) beginning January 1, 1999, which generated
2.8 percent of GDP in 1999; curtailing illegal logging and canceling concession contracts in



4
violation of the terms of contracts; eliminating ghost soldiers and initiating military
demobilization with registration of soldiers; and amending the Implementing Regulations for the
Law on Investment to further tighten exemptions. Cambodia became a member of ASEAN in
April 1999.
12.   With returning confidence and signs of renewed policy reforms, economic outcomes for
1999 were favorable. GDP growth was estimated at 4.5 percent, reflecting buoyant garment
exports and rising tourism as the East Asian recovery took hold. The exchange rate was stable
and inflation low. Budgetary performance was broadly favorable. VAT collections exceeded
expectations and customs duty collections have increased with the effective elimination of ad
hoc exemptions. Nonetheless, non-tax revenue has fallen well short of budget targets owing to a
sharp drop in logging activity and slow recovery of arrears from post and telecommunications.
Defense and security expenditures exceeded the budgetary target.
III. GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM REFORM PROGRAM
13.   The Government's medium-term program focuses on achieving lasting improvements in
the structure of the public finances and in public resource management, in particular forestry.
The program also aims at rebuilding basic institutions, and undertaking related structural
reforms, to create a secure environment for the private sector. (For further background, please
refer to the PFP issued in October 1999).
14.   The medium-term macroeconomic framework for 2000-2002 aims at: raising economic
growth to 6 percent; lowering annual inflation to 4 percent; maintaining robust export growth of
8 percent per annum in real terms, led by the garment sector; containing the external current
account deficit to 12-13 percent of GDP; and increasing gross official reserves to about four
months of import coverage. The projected increases in output growth are premised on rising
investment and savings. These will require a fiscal reform that increases revenues significantly,
and redirects spending priorities toward social and economic reconstruction.
15.   Cambodia's main fiscal problems are threefold: revenues are too low relative to the
demand for public goods because of a exemption-riddled, distorted tax system; expenditures are
distorted by the military and security purpose; and the accountability of the public sector to the
public is limited. The fiscal agenda aims at generating the resources needed to fund increased
spending in priority areas, eliminating tax loopholes and reducing distortions, and strengthening
the role of the budget for economic management. (The Government's fiscal policies are
described in detail in the Sections A and C of the SAC program.) To achieve the targeted
increase in revenues from 11.2 percent of GDP in 1999 to 13.2 percent by 2002, the Government
will: fully implement the remaining provisions in the Law on Taxation; strengthen the
administrative capacity to collect taxes; and further broaden the revenue base. The main focus
will be on a strengthening of tax and customs administration, and on ensuring full collection of
non-tax revenues, including arrears. The Government aims to achieve a substantial shift in public
expenditure toward priority social areas and economic infrastructure. Budget expenditures for
social and economic sectors are targeted to increase from 3.8 percent of GDP in 1999 to 5.1
percent by 2002. With recent improvements in the security situation, the Government aims at a
significant rationalization in defense and security spending, in line with the removal of ghost
soldiers and the demobilization program. The civilian wage bill will be contained and any further
increases in wages will be tied to progress in implementing civil service reform.



5
16.   Banks have not yet become an effective channel of intermediation of savings and
investment. Under the new Commercial Banking Law, banks will be subject to re-licensing, and
those banks that are in violation of the law will be closed. The Foreign Trade Bank will be
restructured and privatized by end-2001. On-site inspections of banks through internationally
recognized audit firmns will be continued and their frequency increased. Issuance of treasury bills
at market determined interest rates will be initiated to promote intermediation and provide the
NBC with a monetary policy instrument, thereby contributing to dedollarization.
17.   The Government will maintain its market-based exchange rate policy consistent with its
monetary policy. With an outward-oriented growth strategy, the Government will expand
international trade. Preparation is well advanced for Cambodia's participation in the ASEAN
Free Trade Area (AFTA) and for accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). The
Government aims to further rationalize and reduce import tariffs. The Government intends to
limit its foreign borrowing to concessional assistance. The Government will also make its best
effort to conclude the one remaining bilateral agreement under the 1995 Paris Club agreement
(the United States), and the agreement with Russia within the framework of the Paris Club, as
well as seeking comparable treatment by other bilateral creditors.
18.   Over 2000-2002, export growth is projected to accelerate to an average annual rate of 11
percent in dollar terms, while import growth is projected to rise to about 10 percent annually,
reflecting increases in project aid and private long-term capital flows as confidence returns.
Accordingly, the current account deficit (excluding official transfers) would be contained to
12-13 percent of GDP, and official reserves would rise moderately to about four months of
import coverage. On this basis, the total external financing requirement for the period
2000-2002 is projected at $2.0 billion.' Total disbursements from official grants and loans are
projected at $1.0 billion and foreign direct investment at $0.4 billion. The residual financing gap,
estimated at $0.3 billion, could be covered by prospective disbursements of the SAC, other
bilateral loans, and the IMF's PRGF. Given the projected level and average terms of financing
envisaged, Cambodia's external debt would amount to $1.1 billion (about 25 percent of GDP) at
end-2002. Since new debt would be contracted on highly concessional terms, the debt service
ratio is projected at 5 percent in 2002.
19.   Three important structural policies--forestry management, administrative reform and
military demobilization, and enhancing governance and fighting corruption--are described at
length in the Sections B, D, and E of the SAC program.
IV. THE SAC PROGRAM
20.   IDA has provided fast-disbursing support in the form of an Emergency Rehabilitation
Credit in 1993 and an Economic Rehabilitation Credit in 1995, but without specific
conditionality attached.  The SAC program  has been formulated under the overarching
framework of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FYOO-03. Among various policy
reform areas, it focuses on fiscal and governance issues, critical impediments to development.
IDA has been closely collaborating with IMF so that the SAC program and the PRGF program
complement and reinforce each other's efforts. The PRGF program aims at accelerating
1 It was assumed that debt relief would be granted during 2000. (For details, please refer to Annex D: Debt
Sustainability Analysis of the CAS.)



6
economic reconstruction and improving governance primarily through fundamental reforms in
the structure of public finances and in public resource management and also through trade policy
reform and the development of the banking sector.
21.   The SAC program aims to help push forward the Government reform agenda in the
following three areas, with an emphasis on institutional underpinning. First, the SAC program
would assist in improving public resource management which includes resource mobilization
(Section A) and forestry management (Section B). Second, it would assist in enhancing public
sector management which comprises expenditure rationalization (Section C) and preparatory
steps for military demobilization and administrative reform (Section D). Third, it would assist in
formulating a strategy on enhancing governance and fighting corruption in economic
management and implementing it (Section E).
A. Public Resource Management: Revenue Mobilization
22.  In Cambodia, prospects for accelerating growth and reducing poverty is severely
constrained by weak domestic revenue efforts. While domestic revenue as a share of GDP
doubled between 1991 and 1994, it has been flat at about 9 percent during 1995-1998,
amounting to about half the average for low income countries.2  The main reasons for the
country's poor revenue performance are related to weak governance: inadequate enforcement of
the Law on Taxation; generous tax exemptions granted under the Law on Investment; ad hoc tax
and customs duty exemptions, often associated with unwarranted political interference; weak
capture of forestry revenues; and limited capacity in tax, customs, and non-tax administration.
To compensate, the Government has had to rely on high import duty rates and adopt tax handles,
such as the minimum tax on turnover, that limit economic activity and inhibit private investment.
23.   There exists substantial revenue enhancing potential. Foregone revenues in 1996 and
1997 estimated by the PER were large, amounting to 5-6 percent of GDP each year. The new
Government has taken some initial actions to realize the revenue potential by: introducing a
VAT, with special emphasis on about 1,500 large tax payers; reducing the scope for ad hoc
exemptions by amending the Implementing Regulations for the Law on Investment to eliminate
tax incentives for domestic consumption goods and resource and resource processing activities;
increasing timber royalty; and beginning to put in place the procedures to grant duty exemptions
under the Law on Investment only if investment enterprises are in compliance with domestic
taxes. The main challenges for the Government are: (a) protecting the integrity of taxation,
particularly the VAT; (b) rationalizing tax incentives under the Law on Investment; (c)
strengthening tax and non-tax administration; and (d) capturing adequate forestry revenue (for
this issue, see the next section on forestry management).
Taxation
24.   The Government has made considerable progress in strengthening the revenue system
since the adoption of the Law on Taxation in 1997. The major new measures were: broadening
the coverage of the excise tax and levying the turnover tax on the first sale after import; for
income taxes, introducing withholding taxes and a tax on dividends and interest while
2 In 1999, revenue increased to 11 percent of GDP thank to the implementation of the VAT and also to the
windfall revenue from garment quota auctions.



7
substantially reducing the exemption level of the tax on salaries; strengthening various tax rules
and procedures; and introducing a VAT.
25.   Trade taxes account for over a half of revenue and the combination of trade taxes and
indirect taxes (excise tax and VAT) account for roughly 90 percent. Because all indirect taxes
are dependent on the level of economic activity, any slippage in the Asian recovery would have a
detrimental effect on revenues. There is also the issue of the Cambodian membership in ASEAN
and the reduction in customs tariffs under AFTA. Over the next ten years, without any move to a
more broad-based tax system, Cambodia would have to place increasing reliance on domestic
consumption taxes such as the VAT. Technical Assistance is expected from the IMF to develop
alternative tax schemes to compensate for the revenue loss from tariff reduction.
26.   Value-added Tax. The VAT was introduced on January 1, 1999 for about 1,500 large
taxpayers registered with the Large Taxpayer Unit of the Tax Department. Implementation of the
VAT would add 1.7 percent of GDP to revenue collection (i.e., revenue enhancement of 0.8
percent of GDP over those collected under the old turnover tax system). Implementation of the
VAT has been largely effective. The VAT will be the major contributor to domestic revenue as
long as the integrity of the VAT is protected. IMF is expected to provide technical assistance in
VAT implementation.
27.  It is essential to ensure the integrity of the VAT building on the recent policy actions.
First, the VAT was to be implemented through a combination of ministerial regulations (prakas)
and a Sub- Decree. The Sub-Decree for the VAT was only approved in December 1999. Thus,
until very recently, the Tax Department operated under this temporary prakas but any actions
taken under these rules and procedures would lack full legal standing under the Law on Taxation
and could be subject to dispute thereby weakening the revenue potential for this tax. Second, in
response to strong protest from the garnent manufacturers, the Government granted the
exemption for the garment sector. Moreover, some interest groups have asked that the Law on
Investment (LOI) be extended to cover VAT, contrary to the Government's decision in the
Implementing Regulations for the LOI. This should not be the case as the VAT falls on the
domestic consumer. Third, a major problem with implementation of the VAT has been the
refund procedure. Until very recently, once VAT refunds were processed by the VAT unit, it
took two months or longer before the refunds were actually issued . The main problem was the
excessive number of approvals that must be obtained after the VAT unit has validated the refund
request. This approval procedure was contrary to a sound VAT policy and put the Government in
a position of having an excessive backlog of refunds to pay.
28.   As a Board presentation condition, the Government has: (a) passed the Sub-Decree on
VAT, satisfactory to IDA; (b) continued its policy disallowing exemptions to the VAT other than
those specified in the Law on Taxation, and (c) reduced the backlog of refunds to those no more
than 15 days old following the approval of refund request and maintained a refund policy that
will ensure that all future refunds are made available to the VAT taxpayer within 15 days of
approval by the Tax Department.
29.   The Tax Department is expanding the coverage of the real regime system of taxation
which is administered by the Large Taxpayer Unit in Phnom Penh to certain targeted provinces.
This effort will strengthen overall compliance and improve revenue collections across all taxes.
Of particular importance is the expanded VAT tax base. Such an expansion must be carefully
managed so that it will not dilute the effectiveness of the real regime system of taxation. In the
Letter of Development Policy (LDP), the Government commits itself to extending the coverage of



8
the large taxpayer office to target provinces that will be managed by the Tax Department in a
phased manner commensurate with ability to implement effectively.
30.   Tax on Profits.  Estimated revenues from the Tax on Profits for 1999 show little gain
over 1998. This is due partly to the slow implementation of new withholding tax rules that were
part of the Tax on Profits. The major problem is the absence of the regulations. The private
sector has expressed concern on the lack of such regulations, causing arbitrary intervention of tax
officials. In the LDP, the Government commits itself to finalizing draft Prakas on Tax on Profits
and issuing to the public in thefirst quarter of year 2000.
31.   Tax Policy Framework.  Over the medium term, the overall tax system will need to be
reformed. As stated in the LDP, the Government is committed to reviewing the tax policy
framework with assistance from the IMF and IDA with the objectives of raising revenues,
enhancing tax buoyancy and equity, and removing distortions that discourage private
investment. Based on the outcome of the review, the Government intends to introduce a new tax
system during the period 2000-2002.
Law on Investment
32.   The provisions of the Article 14 in the Law on Investment (LOI) are detrimental to
improved revenue mobilization and cause distortion to the overall tax policy framework. In the
PER, forgone revenue for 1997 associated with the LOI was estimated at 1.6% of GDP. The Law
provides incentives that are too generous: tax holidays of up to eight years; a special 9 percent
corporate tax rate after the end of the holiday period; duty free importation of capital goods and
other fixed and movable assets; duty free importation of raw materials for export enterprises; and
restrictions on the taxation of remissions abroad. The experience of other countries indicates that
tax incentives rank low on the list of the major determinants of investment flows as compared to
political and economic stability, a sound legal environment, and an adequate quality of physical
infrastructure. Furthermore, the exemption of certain earnings, dividends, and interest, paid
abroad, is hard to justify, because they represent a subsidy to foreign governments, as most of the
payments exempted in Cambodia are taxable in the home country of the investor.
33.   Implementing Regulations for the LOI were amended in June 1999 to remove domestic
consumption goods and the production activities related to natural resources from the scope of
the LOI. Exploration activities, however, remain as activities under the LOI. Natural resources
represent a major revenue potential for Cambodia. Cambodia has yet to effectively utilize this
revenue source. To improve the Government's ability to negotiate fair and equitable natural
resource contracts, in the LDP, the Government commits itself to developing  a modern tax
framework and transparent procedures for managing natural resource concessions, including
mining, petroleum and forestry with the objectives of improving their sustainable, efficient
utilization and enhancing revenues to the Government.
34.   There is little justification for the tax incentives provided under the LOI. The Law on
Taxation contains very liberal tax-based incentives including: a 20 percent profit tax rate (10-15
percentage points lower than those of other ASEAN countries); accelerated depreciation; and a
5-year operating loss carry forward. Another important issue is that the current mechanism in
determining the length of tax holidays is largely arbitrary in practice, despite a complex matrix
system due to weak administrative capacity, leaving it open to manipulation and corruption.
Cambodia could look at such countries as Indonesia (1983) and Estonia (1993) that tied
significant tax reforms to the elimination of the laws similar to the LOI. In both cases, the



9
rationalizing tax incentives, lessening administrative burden, and removing the uncertainties
associated with those incentives was the major motivation behind increased levels of foreign
direct investment.
35.   While the statutory profit tax rate at 20 percent in Cambodia is much lower than those in
ASEAN countries, the marginal effective tax rate (METR) is much higher without the incentives
currently provided under the LOI. (See Annex V which has been prepared in collaboration with
FIAS). This is because of high level of import duties imposed on capital goods and the
imposition of the minimum tax. Under the Law on Taxation, major burden on investment firms
is the minimum tax. Because of the poor tax compliance, the Government imposes the minimum
tax that is levied on all real regime enterprises including those covered by the LOI, is collected
through a monthly prepayment of the tax on profit equal to 1 percent of turnover, and is reduced
by the amount of the Tax on Profits paid. Even if a firm incurs a loss, it is required to pay this
tax. Such a tax is an inefficient instrument that has little justification in a modem tax system
with good compliance and administration.
36.   As the LOI grants an exemption from customs duty on capital imports, the METR is
reduced for firms under the LOI. However, profit tax incentives do not make the METR any
lower as they are overridden by the necessity to pay the minimum tax. The current system is
seriously flawed in that it sacrifices substantial revenue without accruing proportional increase in
investment. In sum, the current investment incentive system suffers from the following
weaknesses:
* sacrificing substantial revenue without significantly attracting investment
* bringing about a bias toward "footloose" companies and against long-lived investments
* putting serious pressure on administrative capacity in approving and monitoring the
incentives, and bringing about opportunities for corruption
* resulting in a very narrow corporate tax base which is detrimental to tax buoyancy over
the longer term
37.   Thus, reform of the current investment incentives in the context of a more general reform
of the tax system is necessary for the Government to achieve its growth objective, as stated in
para 31. As a first step, the SAC program proposes the following:
As a second tranche release condition, the Government will have submitted for adoption by the
National Assembly an amendment to Article 14 of the Law on Investment, and introduced related
measures, acceptable to IDA and in form and substance consistent with paragraph 8 of the
Letter of Development Policy, with a view to rationalizing the incentive regime inherent in the
Law on Investment and eliminating distortions thereunder.
Technical assistance is expected from FIAS for the revision of the LOI.
38.   To promote a less distortionary tax environment and to enhance the Government's efforts
to promote private investment, the Government will need to phase out the minimum tax in the
context of a broader reforn that would put revenues on a sounder footing. Another area for
reform is customs duty reduction on capital goods. In the LDP, the Government commits itself to
subjecting all imports under the Law on Investment which are currently exempted from customs
duty to a reduced rate, to be determined with assistance from FIAS and the IMF.



10
39.   By incorporating the recommendations above, along with the revision of the LOI, METR
could be reduced to a rate which is very competitive when compared with most ASEAN
competitors and would be available to all taxpayers automatically via the Law on Taxation,
without evaluation or approval. By capturing more investment firms under the tax net and by
attracting more investors, revenues would be enhanced.
Tax and Customs Administration
40.   A major part of the Law on Taxation was the strengthening of administrative law. The
administrative law provisions include improved collections and enforcement procedures
supported by new administrative and criminal penalties. As stated in the LDP, the Government is
committed to continuing to use all means available under the provisions of the Law on Taxation
to improve compliance and enforcement, including establishing targeted working group with the
participation of the private sector, to ensure proper implementation of rules and procedures of
tax laws and regulations.
41.   The rules and procedures under the Implementing Regulations of the LOI have
significantly improved the ability of the Council for the Development of Cambodia (CDC) to
monitor the activities of investment enterprises particularly with regard to customs duty
exemptions. As indicated in the LDP, the Government is committed to strengthening the system
of information exchange between the Tax Department, Customs Office, State Property
Department, and CDC to monitor effectively the activities offirms approved under the LOI (e.g.,
firms that are not current on payment of tax obligations should not be granted duty exemptions
under the LOI).
42.   Tax Audit and Arrears Collection. There are two interrelated problems in tax collection.
First, the current audit strategy for the tax on profits focuses on one tax year at a time. The
current year under audit is 1996. The strategy of auditing all tax returns for one year creates a
major problem in the implementation of the Law on Taxation. It will be one to two years before
there are any active audits of the tax returns filed for the current tax year. Such a strategy will
put the Tax Department and taxpayers in an awkward position when audits are actually done on
the current tax year. In the LDP, the Government commits itself to developing a new audit
strategy that will allow for the selective audit of tax returns in all years open to investigation,
with an emphasis on the current tax year. Second, collection of arrears continues to be a
problem. The main problem in analyzing arrears is the lack of any statistics other than the gross
amount of arrears. Without maintaining any data on the age of the tax arrears, the Tax
Department does not have an active strategy that would allow them to establish priorities for
collection of arrears according to the age of the arrears. The basic premise of the Law on
Taxation is that the longer the arrears remain outstanding the more severe the penalty. As stated
in the LDP, the Government is committed to developing a methodology for measuring the
maturity of the outstanding arrears and for each year maintaining the data on the total amount
of assessments issued, the total amount of assessments paid, the outstanding assessments which
are less than six months old, and the total amount of outstanding assessments that are more than
six months old, with monthly update.
43.   Pre-shipment Inspection.  The pre-shipment inspection (PSI) system was introduced in
1995 with a view to: enhancing customs revenue by reducing the scope for under-invoicing;
helping to strengthen custom administration in valuation of imports; and facilitating port
clearance procedures. Since the inception of the program, there have been numerous problems.
First, the Government extended the exemption from the PSI to imports for the projects approved



11
under the LOI, garments, and cigarettes. As a result, only one third of the original coverage was
recently under the PSI. Second, initially the importers were required to pay the inspection fee
but since then the Government assumed the fee payment and accumulated in arrears in fee
payment. Third, the PSI system has not eliminated port delays because there have been no real
reforms in port clearance procedures. The Government and the PSI agency have agreed to
terminate the contract, and tendering for a new PSI provider is well underway.
44.   While verification, valuation, and timely clearance of shipments should be one major
benefit of the PSI, there is another area that PSI could provide significant benefits to the
Government. The LOI allows for the duty free import of the capital assets and raw materials.
Since the inception of this program the major problem has been monitoring of the importation
and use of these goods. CDC lacks the ability to maintain a complete accounting of the tax free
assets, goods, and materials circulating in the country that are supposedly used by investment
enterprises. Pre-shipment inspection and valuation of duty exempt assets and goods could
provide an accurate view of one side of the monitoring process.
45.   There are at a minimum three separate Government organizations operating within the
major port. The delay of shipments which is closely tied to the governance issue is costly to
legitimate importers and investors. Pre-shipment inspection has done little to reduce the port
delays or the explicit and implicit costs related to the clearance of goods. Such an environment
is a major disincentive to use pre-shipment inspection and is understood to be at the root of most
major complaints about the program.
46.   The Government needs to enhance the effectiveness of the PSI system by incorporating
the concerns raised above. The IMF is providing TA on the improvement of the PSI system.
47.   As a Board presentation conidition, the Government has: (a) initiated a tendering process
in a transparent and competitive manner for a pre-shipment inspection (PSI) agency, with
provisions for achieving the elements and objectives set out in the second tranche release
condition; and (b) used the already established PSI database as a basis for determining customs
valuation during the interim period.
48.   As a second tranche release condition, the Government will have re-established a system
of pre-shipment inspection of imports, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, and in
accordance with the policies and principles laid down in paragraph 11 of the Letter of
Development Policy.  In tandem, as stated in the LDP, the Government is committed to
simplifying port clearance procedures at port by establishing guidelines, enabling the Customs
Department to manage the overall clearance process and specifying the procedures through
which other government agencies will be involved in that process.
B. Public Resource Management: Forestry Management
49.   Forests are Cambodia's most developmentally important natural resource and could bring
in significant revenues. Conditions in forestry, however, have deteriorated seriously throughout
the mid-1990s, posing serious governance problems and showing evidence of pervasive
corruption. Illegal logging reached alarming levels: in the 1997-1998 logging season: illegal
logging was estimated at 3-4 million cubic meters, as compared with sustainable levels of 0.5-1
million cubic meters. The revenue loss arising from illegal logging to the Government in 1997
was estimated well in excess of US$60 million, or 2 percent of GDP. Furthermore, a system of
uncoordinated and uncontrolled issuance of log collection quotas outside the concession



12
contracts came to dominate harvesting, local people were being negatively affected by forestry
operations, the Department of Forestry and Wildlife (DFW) was severely restricted in its
capacity to control and protect the resource, and forest industries were being negatively affected
by low wood product prices resulting from the regional financial cnrsis. Political circumstances,
including campaign-related interference in forest resource allocations and limited control and
discipline among anned groups, have hampered progress in forestry. The recent forestry
situation clearly demonstrated the urgent need for fundamental reforms toward establishing an
environmentally sustainable, socially responsible, and economically viable sector.
50.   Based on the recommendations of the four studies undertaken with technical assistance
from the Bank, UNDP, and FAO, the Government recently has taken some important initial
actions: (a) crackdown on illegal logging (with the support of military, police and provincial
authorities); (b) the cancellation of 12 concessions in violation of terms of contracts or
Cambodian law and conversion of the cancelled areas to national parks; (c) termination of the
log collection quota system; and (d) the unilateral announcement of a concession royalty increase
to US$54 per cubic meter from the previous US$14. Building on these initial actions, the
Government is proceeding on wide-ranging efforts with substantial technical assistance from
IDA, ADB, UNDP, FAO, and other bilateral donors. The main elements of the policy actions
are in the areas of forest crnme monitoring, concession management, and forest law.
Forest Crime Monitoring
51.   As stated in the LDP, the Government is committed to continuing its efforts in cracking
down on illegal logging with the support of military, police, provincial authorities, civil society,
and neighboring countries. International practice suggests that an effective assault on illegal
logging and other forest cnrmes should involve elements of prevention, detection and
suppression. The Govermnent, with IDA's technical assistance, has prepared a comprehensive
program for a forest crime monitonrng system to support this approach and to feed into well
targeted suppression actions, and began implementing it. The program involves the DFW in the
detection and reporting of incidents on commercial forest areas and the Ministry of Environment
on the parks and protected areas system. In addition, it involves an independent intemational
monitor (Global Witness, an NGO) in investigating autonomously and reporting forest crimes. A
multilateral trust fund administered by UNDP for financing this arrangement has been
established with donor contributions (from the United Kingdom, Australia, etc.).
52.   As a Board presentation condition, the Government has. (a) developed and implemented
a work program for establishing forestry crime monitoring capacity of the Department of
Forestry and Wildlife, the Ministry of Environment, and the Council of Ministers, including
procurement, staffing, training, and budgeting, satisfactory to IDA; and (b) reported quarterly
on the forest crime monitoring to the public, including the first full report made available in
early February, 2000.
53.   As a second tranche release condition, the Government will have satisfied IDA that it has
maintained its quarterly publication on forestry crime monitoring and that such publication has
been made regularly available to the public, in accordance with the provisions in paragraph 13
of the Letter of Development Policy.



13
Concession Management
54.   Concession Management Regulatory Framework. Concession operations approvals are
currently based on outdated technical regulations. The current system does not adequately
address critical considerations such as area to be harvested, the length of the cutting cycle, social
demands on the forest, and biodiversity considerations. Recommendations on these, and other
technical aspects of concession management have been made under the IDA assisted TA
program. The Government needs to establish the legal and regulatory framework to enforce these
requirements on concessionaires. A sub-decree on concession management makes reference to
an associated set of Codes of Practice which has been adopted in June 1999. These cover
inventory, planning, biodiversity, social responsibility, theft prevention, logging, and road
construction. IDA has been providing assistance in this area.
55.   As a Board presentation condition, the Government has adopted the Sub-Decree on
forestry concession management, satisfactory to IDA, by encompassing the main provisions
from a set of Codes of Practice and providing the Department of Forestry and Wildlife with an
appropriate level of independence from political interference in enforcement, after consultations
with concessionaires and NGOs.
56.   Concession Contract Review. Under a study assisted by IDA assisted TA, legal advisers
hired by the Government have concluded that the contracts which define the concession system,
although seriously biased against the Government and subject to many defects and limitations,
should be considered as binding obligations. Nevertheless, specific performance obligations have
been identified and these provide a basis on which the Government might assess the specific
perforrnance of concessionaires and seek relief in the case of default. The Government should
pursue a consistent and rigorous case-by-case concession performance review leading, insofar as
possible, to an overall restructuring of the concession management system, within the framework
of Cambodian law and existing contracts. Terms of reference for this review have been
produced under the IDA-assisted TA. These recommend a triage approach which would identify
cases of clear default and set the basis for detailed review of concessions with reasonable claim
to contract compliance. Among the principles which should guide the review and re-negotiation
process are: transparency (including full public disclosure of revised terms and conditions and
basis for terrninations and other actions); fairness (in particular, revenue provisions need to be
linked to the realistic commercial potential of specific tracts); predictability (including prior
notification); and defined provisions for appeal. The Government has initiated the performance
review process for the 21 concessionaires with ADB's technical assistance since July 1999 and
aims to complete the review by early 2000.
57.   As a second tranche release condition, the Government will have completed a forestry
concession review and taken actions based on the outcome of the review, in accordance with the
provisions ofparagraph 14 of the Letter of Development Policy.
58.   The Government unilaterally increased the forestry royalty level from US$14 per cubic
meter to US$54 starting from January 1999. While most concessionaires are complying with
this new royalty level after some delay, one large concessionaire has yet to comply and
suspended its operations. Apart from the contractual dimension, the economic viability of
Government's US$54 per cubic meter royalty is uncertain. There are reasons to presume that an
entirely different revenue structure would be more appropriate over the medium-term. The
reasons include risks from corruption, administrative feasibility, and various efficiency concerns.
As stated in the LDP, the Government is committed to reviewing alternative mechanisms for



14
timber royalties with a view to moving toward more transparent and market-based pricing
principles and establishing and applying such a mechanism to renegotiation of the contracts
based on the concession contract review process.
59.   Community Forestry.  With poverty in Cambodia concentrated in rural areas, it is
essential to fully utilize forest resources in the support of agriculture and rural development. In
addition to requiring concessionaires and parks and protected areas managers to adhere to strict
standards of social responsibility, the Government needs to support community forestry as part
of an approach to rural development and forest concession management. Under community
forestry, Government needs to ensure mechanisms for the award of long-term tenure rights to
forest resources to local communities, indigenous peoples, and to other targeted groups. The
Government is currently developing a Community Forestry Sub-Decree, with technical
assistance from ADB. In the LDP, the Government commits itself to adopting a sub-decree
defining a community forestry policy, after proper consultation with all stakeholders.
Forest Law
60.   The legislative framework for forestry development has been reviewed by the
Government's legal advisers. This review noted serious weakness in the assignment of
responsibility for forest land management and administration, the provision of enforcement
authority, intersectoral oversight and public accountability. Several efforts have been made to
prepare comprehensive forest legislation. These have suffered from a number of technical
weakness, but more importantly have been compromised by the absence of a process for
stakeholder engagement, consensus building and participation. Technical assistance is being
provided by ADB.
61.   As a second tranche release condition, followingfull consultations with stakeholders, and
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 15 of the Letter of Development Policy, the
Government will have submitted for adoption by the National Assembly a draft law revising the
Forest Law, acceptable to IDA, and establishing clear responsibility for forest management and
administration, and providing for enforcement authority, inter-sectoral oversight and public
accountability.
C. Public Sector Management: Expenditure Rationalization
62.   Despite its critical role in reconstructing infrastructure, developing human resources, and
improving the accessibility of public services to the poor, the effectiveness of public
expenditures in Cambodia is constrained not only by weak revenue efforts but also by low
efficiency and equity associated with the allocation of public expenditure. Furthernore, while
the Government has managed to overall deficits under control, its budget institutions and
processes have not produced a spending composition that would have maximum development
impact, nor is delivering spending very efficiently.  Thus, to enhance the effectiveness of
public expenditures to deliver better program and service delivery, the Government must reorient
spending and manage it more efficiently.
Expenditure Reorientation
63.   Current expenditures have stabilized at about 9-10 percent of GDP in recent years. Given
weak revenue mobilization, high levels of defense and security outlays, and the need to maintain
macroeconomic stability, allocations for essential social and economic sector spending are



15
severely squeezed, especially those for non-wage operating expenditures. Moreover, shortfalls
from budgeted amounts for the social and economic sectors are frequent as these sectors are the
balancing residual in the event of revenue shortfalls or defense/security overruns. As a result,
development expenditures are much less effective than planned.
64.   Public capital spending is critical to Cambodia's rehabilitation and recovery. Because
domestic revenues are barely sufficient to cover current expenditures, almost all of public capital
expenditures are financed by external grants and concessional loans (including NGO) sources.3
Local cost financing provides small amounts of counterpart funding for externally financed
projects or for small local projects. Both of these items are vulnerable to cutbacks due to
revenue shortfalls or defense/security overruns.
65.   In Cambodia, investment in human resources is a critical policy component of the
development strategy to accelerate growth and reduce poverty. The development experiences of
successful countries in the region underline the importance of investment in education and health
in improving labor productivity and increasing the shared basis of economic growth. However,
the outlay for human resource development from the government's own resources has been
extremely low.  In 1998, for example, expenditures on education and health from  the
government's resources constituted only about 1 percent and 0.5 percent of GDP, respectively.
Even when total expenditures on public services (i.e., financed from government, donors, and
NGOs) are considered, the education and health sectors together secured only 5 percent of GDP,
which is inadequate in view of the massive human resource development needs. Similarly, total
expenditure on public services available for physical infrastructure was limited. In particular, in
a country where 85 percent of the population and 88 percent of the poor are concentrated in rural
areas, the agriculture and rural development sectors received only 22 percent of the total
expenditure on public services.
66.   Defense expenditures have crowded out outlays for key social and economic services.
During 1994-1998, defense expenditures varied between 3.3 and 5 percent of GDP, compared
with the averages of 2.3 percent for East Asian countries and 2 percent for developing countries
generally. The Government needs to rationalize defense expenditures to make way for increased
allocations for key social and economic sectors. (See the subsequent Section on Preparatory
Steps for Military Demobilization.)
67.   The Government aims to channel resources obtained from improved revenue efforts and
from rationalization of the military service and public administration to key social and economic
sectors (health, education, agriculture, and rural development). Toward this objective, the
Government should make increased allocations for these key sectors and monitor the
implementation of the budget carefully to provide greater assurance that these objectives would
be reached.
68.   Furthermore, within  these key  sectors the Governmnent should  ensure increased
allocations for priority programs/sub-sectors. In health, spending on primary health care and
3In Cambodia, various donors and NGOs provide assistance of a public expenditure nature. The PER established
the consolidated database: expenditures financed from the government's own revenues formed only 8.4 percent of
GDP in 1996; expenditure estimates included in the official budget (which partially captures donor assistance were
17.2 percent of GDP; and aggregate expenditures on public services from all sources constituted 24.8 percent of
GDP.



16
disease control programs (preventive spending) needs to be increased substantially relative to
hospitals and drugs. In education, the Government needs to ensure appropriate outlays for
primary and lower secondary education, in particular non-wage operations and maintenance such
as textbooks and teaching materials., while putting in place policies which encourage private
sector involvement in upper secondary, tertiary, and technical education. In agriculture and rural
development, the Government needs to allocate more expenditures to irrigation, rural roads, and
agricultural extension services to help extend a market economy to rural areas and enhance
income earning opportunities for the poor.
69.   The Government has initiated the process toward expenditure reorientation with the 2000
budget. In particular, the Government: (a) introduced a Priority Action Program (PAP) which is
meant to constitute protection of critical expenditures such as programs for primary education,
basic health, rural roads regardless of whether revenues reached projected levels or not; and (b)
extended the Accelerated District Development (ADD) program for district health centers which
is a cash advance system designed to give program managers greater certainty in regard to the
level of budget funds available to them and greater flexibility in the use of those funds.
70.   As a Board presentation condition, the Government has presented to IDA a plan for
increasing expenditures for the key social and economic sectors (i.e., health, education,
agriculture, rural development) over the next three years, satisfactory to IDA. As an initial
phase of the plan, the Government has presented to IDA the 2000 budget for health (9% of total
current expenditure), education (14% of total current expenditure), and agriculture and rural
development (3% of total current expenditure), showing improvement over the 1999 budget in
terms of share in total current expenditure, as agreed with IDA. In addition, the Government
has presented to IDA the budget allocations and the contents of the Priority Action Program
(PAP) for health and education and also for the Accelerated District Development (ADD)
program, as agreed with IDA.
71.   As a second tranche release condition, the Government will have submitted to IDA
satisfactory evidence in terms of the formula specified in paragraph 19 of the Letter of
Development Policy, to show that: (a) the ratio of actual disbursements of non-wage operating
expenditures for the health, education, agriculture and rural development sectors combined
during the year 2000 have been not less than the corresponding ratio for the remaining sectors
combined; and (b) actual disbursements for the Accelerated District Development (ADD)
program during the same period have been not less than the corresponding budget allocation.
72.   As a second tranche release condition, the Government will have presented to IDA a
draft year 2001 budget, acceptable to IDA, including budget allocations for, and contents of the
Priority Action Program (PAP) and the ADD, and showing enhanced allocations for health,
education, agriculture and rural development sectors in terms of share of total current
expenditures as compared with the year 2000 budget.
73.   As stated in the LDP, the Government is committed to implementing the envisaged
budgetary framework during 2000-2002. To facilitate this, the Government is committed to
disburse expenditures more evenly over the year. It should be emphasized, however, that
increased expenditure allocations to key social and economic sectors alone will not automatically
bring about improved quality of services in these sectors. In order to ensure improved quality of
service in these priority sectors, the Government must enhance the effectiveness of expenditure
management as described in the following section. In tandem, the Government needs to carry
out administrative reform with a view to achieving a better paid and motivated civil service. In



17
addition, sector specific policy and institutional issues need to be addressed. As indicated in the
LDP, the Government is committed to addressing policy and institutional issues in the health and
education sectors, as recommended in the Public Expenditure Review.
Expenditure Management
74.   Budget processes in Cambodia have delivered significantly improved fiscal management
since the early 1990s. The Budget Law of 1993 lays out the presentation, timetable and
procedures for the preparation of the annual budget. It calls for a single unified national budget
consolidating the receipts and expenditures of national and provincial governments in local and
foreign currency. It also calls for revenue collection to be centered in the Treasury Department of
the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). Subsequently, under the framework of the Budget
Law a number of measures have been introduced aimed at strengthening central control and
improving the transparency of governnent operations.
75.   These reforms have resulted in considerable improvements in budgetary procedures and
controls relating to aggregate fiscal discipline. The gains in aggregate fiscal discipline from a
very centralized system, however, have been at the expense of losses in allocative and technical
(operational) efficiency. First, budget processes are extraordinarily centralized, with the approval
at ministerial level being required for routine budget disbursements by line ministries. Second,
there is frequently a failure to honor budgeted allocations to the social and economic sectors.
Third, there is limited transparency of the uses made of budget funds, particularly at the
provincial and district levels, and evidence of leakages/diversions of funds from the purposes for
which they were appropriated.
76.   Achieving close links between planning, policy, and budgeting is an integral factor
contributing to desirable budgetary outcomes. Over the last few years, some progress has been
made to link the Five-Year Socio-economic Development Plan (SEDP) with the annual budget
through three-year rolling Public Investment Programs (PIPs); nevertheless, the linkage between
the medium-term plan and the annual budget remains tenuous. A critical institutional weakness is
the absence of a proper system of monitoring. The Government has recognized this problem and
a system for monitoring of the PIP is to be established under the Public Investment Management
System (PIMS). ADB is providing technical assistance on PIP.
77.   Thus, PER recommended three changes in the Cambodian budget process:
*  ensuring the integrity of the budgetary process
*  strengthening the public investment management system
*  improving the performance of spending units
These reforms are inter-related, and should proceed in parallel. The implementation of the
recommendations for budget reform across the board, however, would present a daunting
challenge in view of capacity constraint. To resolve this, a pilot approach to budget reform needs
to be adopted. A single ministry could be identified as the focus of an integrated and in-depth
program of improved budget management. The pilot ministry should be a ministry in which there
already exists an intemal reform orientation, and good access to external technical assistance.
The most likely candidate meeting these criteria would be the Ministry of Health. Based on the
experience in the Ministry of Health, budget reform would be gradually extended to other
ministries in the next phases.



18
78.   Ensuring the Integrity of the Budgetary Process.   Budget processes in Cambodia
frequently fails to honor budget allocations to the social and economic sectors. This reflects ad
hoc remaking of the budget during the budget year. Key reasons for low levels of spending on
the social and economic sectors are revenue shortfalls and overrun in outlays for defense,
security, and the Prime Minister's Office. These result in actual spending falling short of
budgeted amounts in key development sectors, and allocative and operational inefficiency. The
problem is most serious in the health sector.
79.   Two main factors contribute to this failure to allocate amounts budgeted for the social
and economic sectors. The first reflects lack of political will to enforce the prioritization
decisions previously made during budget preparation. In effect, the budget is continuously re-
made at the political level during the course of the budget year at the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF)'s monthly budget allocation meeting. The second reason is leakages/diversions
of the budget allotted to social and economic programs to other purposes. Particularly damaging
is the diversion of funds at the level of the provincial governor. A contributing factor here is the
failure of the MEF to copy the Prakas informning each province of its monthly allocation to the
central office of the line ministries in Phnom Penh and their provincial departments. In the LDP,
the Government commits itself to providing the monthly spending plans (Prakas) to each line
ministry and its provincial departments on a timely basis prior to thefirst day of each quarter.
80.   The Government initiated procedures for ensuring the integrity of the budgetary process
in the context of the 2000 budget law. In particular, the MEF created a Budget Strategy and
Execution Center whose function is to facilitate the implementation of programs and ensure the
shift in allocations from defense and security toward social and economic reconstruction. IDA is
expected to provide technical assistance.
81.   As a Board presentation condition, the Government has established a budget strategy
and enforcement center at MEF, with adequate mandate, staffing, and procedures, satisfactory
to IDA, as a one-stop shop to streamline the procedures to screen the bids for funding and
facilitate cash disbursements to key social and economic sectors (health, education, agriculture,
and rural development), both at the central level and provincial departments. The Government
has also requested provincial treasuries to provide monthly reports to MEF on the variance
between the monthly allocations and actual disbursements to key social and economic sectors,
the reasons for the variance, and measures to be taken to compensate for the variance, and
provide the monthly reports to IDA.
82.   Over the medium term, strengthening the capacity of core budgetary institutions is key to
enhancing the integrity of the budget. As indicated in the LDP, the Government is committed to
developing a program for strengthening the capacity of core budget institutions (MEF, Ministry
of Planning, budget departments of line ministries, budget departments of provinces,
Controller's Office, Audit Office) for budget preparation, implementation, and monitoring and
reporting, in particular (a) clarifying and coordinating their respective roles; (b) developing
cost center-based budgeting; (c) preparing for fiscal decentralization, and (d) strengthening
accounting and internal and external auditing.
83.   Strengthening the Public Investment Management System. The PIP in Cambodia is, to a
large extent, an amalgamation of fragmented donor-driven projects that may not necessarily
result in a coherent sectoral policy agenda, and whose cumulative recurrent costs may be
unsustainable in the medium-term. While some progress has been made in recent years with
assistance from IDA and ADB, there exist three types of weaknesses in the linkage between the



19
PIP and the annual budget. First, the capital budget is largely developed by the Ministry of
Planning in isolation from the recurrent budget prepared by the MEF. It appears that project
costings are not rigorously reviewed. Second, monitoring of existing projects is inadequate. The
amounts budgeted for ongoing projects should reflect progress with implementation of each
project. Third, there is no systematic provision for the operation and maintenance costs of
projects that have been completed.
84.   These issues could be resolved by moving toward a development of a medium tern
expenditure framework (MTEF). This framework would eventually incorporate out-year
estimates for both capital and recurrent spending by each agency. This would provide a stable
planning environment both for the MEF and the program ministry. Provided the pilot ministry
has introduced robust accounting, financial control and project costing systems, the MTEF could
provide that ministry with baseline budget estimates of capital and current allocations over the
subsequent two annual budgets. While these would be subject to new policy decisions in the
course of preparing the subsequent budgets, the baseline estimates would provide a more certain
planning environment for both the MEF and the pilot ministry. In parallel, the Government
needs to move toward better aid coordination. A promising way would be the Sector Wide
Approach (SWAP). Under SWAPs, the responsibility for sector development is led by the
Government and supported by donors. While SWAPs will involve considerable efforts on the
part of the Government and donors, this approach would link donor funded capital spending
more closely with the priorities of the Government as identified in the SEDP. WHO is proving
technical assistance to the Ministry of Health in moving toward a SWAP. In the LDP, the
Government commits itself to initiating a MTEF in the health sector as a pilot, and as part of
that process, preparing a SWAP for coordinating donors.
85.  Improving the Performance of Spending Units. Spending agencies continue to operate in
a difficult environment in Cambodia because of: lack of funds; inability to plan their operations
due to uncertainty about the future level of funding; overly restrictive budget line items which
limit the flexibility with which managers can use funds; delays associated with pre-audit of
spending actions; and leakages/diversions of funds. Devolution of greater freedom to spending
agencies is seen in many countries as the key to more effective funds management by spending
agencies. The Government introduced in 1996 the ADD system which provides more efficient
and flexible funding directly to hospitals and health centers in a small number of districts as a
pilot approach toward program-based budget allocation. An evaluation of the effectiveness of the
ADD program needs to be undertaken and a trial of a similar program-based approach needs to
be planned. In the LDP, the Government commits itself to preparing a review of the experience
with the ADD program with a set of recommendations about how performance could be
improved and take steps to resolve the impediments (accounting system in particular). Building
on the findings, the Government is committed to making necessary adjustments and alterations
with a view to extending the coverage of the ADD within the Ministry of Health and piloting at
the Ministry of Education.
86.   However, while financial devolution offers major benefits, it also incurs significant risks.
Since the devolution of financial control from central agency to spending agency under a
transition from pre-audit to post audit of budget execution by spending ministries will weaken
this budgetary control, it is vital that substitute financial control procedures be established. The
installation of government accounting software would play a key role in this regard, particularly
by ensuring increased transparency of funds flows within spending agencies. Australia is
providing technical assistance in this area. In the LDP, the Government commits itself to



20
introducing a simple integrated computer-based accounting and management system (low end,
off-the-shelf software using double entry accounting and pre-determined financial management
and control modules) at the central and provincial levels of the Ministry of Health. The
Government is also committed to extending the scope for advance payment arrangement in the
context of the PAP in parallel with the improvedfinancial management systems.
D. Public Sector Management: Preparatory Steps for Military Demobilization
and Administrative Reform
Military Demobilization
87.   Recognizing the critical importance of military demobilization and reintegration, in 1995-
1996 the Government prepared a comprehensive Cambodian Veterans Assistance Program
(CVAP) which envisaged a substantial reduction in the regular armed forces plus several
thousand Khmer Rouge defectors, but it was not implemented due partly to the political
turbulence during and following July 1997. Following successful elections and the defections of
the remainder of the Khmer Rouge combatants, the security situation has improved considerably
and the Government intends to move to effect a significant reduction in the armed forces on a
phased basis during 2000-2003.
88.   To guide the downsizing, the Government has established a National Council  for
Demobilization of the Armed Forces with cross ministerial representation. The General
Secretariat has been set up for the program preparation and implementation. This Secretariat,
with assistance from the IDA and Australia, has conducted several studies profiling the
characteristics and needs of soldiers; examined the possibilities for alternative employment;
assessing the institutional capacity of Government to implement a downsizing and reintegration
program; and assembled the lessons learned from previous demobilization and refugee
integration attempts during the UNTAC period. The studies are currently being updated.
89.   The CVAP has four stages--registration, demobilization, reinsertion, and reintegration.
Registration involves verification of identity, the creation of a personnel database and data
processing, the issuance of an ID card, and the production of personnel record and payroll
system. Demobilization involves assembly and disarmament, health screening, orientation and
discharge, transport to the community of choice and arrival counseling. Reinsertion involves the
provision of a transitional safety net for veterans and their families to ease the transition to
civilian life. The final stage consists of reintegration assistance in the form of counseling and
information, skills enhancement, micro projects, community welfare projects, job referrals and
access to land. The CVAP also provides for special target groups such as the disabled and
chronically ill, and female veterans.
90.   The Government initially targeted 55,000 soldiers for demobilization. With IDA's
assistance through a post-conflict grant, the process of registering all legitimate military
personnel has been completed. As a result, the demobilization has in fact already begun as the
Government has identified 15,551 "ghost soldiers" and more than 160,000 "ghost children", and
removed them from the payroll. In addition, 8,148 widows of dead soldiers are in the process of
transferring to the Ministry of Women and Veterans' Affairs. Thus, about 31,500 soldiers would
be demobilized during 2000-02. Based on the preliminary results and experience with a pilot
phase of 1,500 soldiers to be demobilized in four provinces in 2000 and using the lessons
learned, the overall program would be designed on the following schedule: 10,000 in late 2000;



21
10,000 in 2001; and 10,000 in 2002. Targeted reintegration would be offered until the end of
2003.
91.   With technical assistance from IDA and Germany, the preparation for the pilot program
is well underway, addressing the issues such as the level and modality of the transitional safety
net, updating the profile of the beneficiaries, land availability, and the linkage of the
reintegration component to existing community development programs. Germany, Sweden, and
the Netherlands are providing financial assistance for the preparation and implementation of the
pilot phase of demobilization. In parallel, with assistance from Australia the Governrment is
preparing a White Paper on the long-term national defense policy focusing on improving
efficiency of the military force. The SAC program aims to help the Government in carrying out
preparatory steps toward military demobilization and reintegration in the next stage.
92.   As a proposed Board presentation condition, in full consultation with donors, NGOs, and
civil society, the Government has: (a) completed the identification and registration of soldiers;
and (b) formulated a pilot demobilization and reintegration program, satisfactory to IDA,
including provisions for independentfinancial and technical audits of the program.
93.   Progress in the implementation of the demobilization program may be subject to
unplanned delays in view of the nature of the program and the political sensitivity of military
reform, of which the CVAP is an integral part. The CVAP, thus, faces a number of risks and
implementation difficulties that justify a flexible approach to tranche release. For instance, given
the current state of infrastructure, demobilization logistics may require more time than
envisaged. The verification of soldiers identified for demobilization on the basis of transparent
criteria may be more time consuming. A consensus acceptable to all participating donors and
NGOs would need to be found before donors would commit resources to the CVAP. The SAC
program, therefore, proposes the following as a floating tranche release condition, i.e., its timing
is not pre-specified.
94.   As a proposed floating tranche condition, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 28 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Government will have: (a) achieved
progress satisfactory to IDA in the implementation of the pilot phase of the demobilization and
reintegration program; (b) in full consultation with stakeholders, conducted an interim review of
the progress of the program; and (c) based on the results thereof, developed a proposal,
acceptable to IDA, for the demobilization and reintegrationz program.
Administrative Reform
95.   The Government's capacity to formulate and implement economic management and
development programs has been severely constrained by the quality of the civil service. The
Government inherited a civil service which was badly decimated, lacking the knowledge and
skills to manage a technical bureaucracy in a market economy, badly remunerated and suffering
from a distorted age profile. Absenteeism is prevalent because wages--at an average of US$20
per month--are well below the poverty line.
96.   Since 1993, the Government has been working on a wide ranging administrative reform
program for which UNDP was the lead donor, with other donors contributing. While there has
been some progress, political uncertainty, particularly following the events of July 1997, and the
lack of clear vision have caused delays in implementation. While administrative reform is
unlikely to save much money due to the need for the rationalization of the pay structure and the



22
payment of reasonable salaries, the scope for rationalizing expenditures to make them effective,
efficient, and productive is immense (i.e., significantly improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of programs and service delivery).
97.   Recognizing this critical importance, the Government has recently renewed its efforts on
administrative reform and taken a number of concrete steps. First, in March 1999, a decree was
adopted creating the Supreme Council of State Reform, chaired by the Prime Minister, which in
turn oversees five Councils of Reform in key areas: administration, demobilization, arrny,
justice, and fiscal reform. Second, the Council of Administrative Reforn has been specified as
the body in charge of all aspects of administrative reform. Third, a sub-decree enforcing the
mandatory retirement age for civil servants at 55 years has been adopted. Fourth, basic salaries
in the public sector were raised by 30 percent as of May 1, 1999 although it was not linked to
any merit or incentive system.
98.   The Government has put a computerized payroll system in place in five ministries under
EU's technical assistance and extension to other ministries is planned in a phased manner to
establish a control mechanism for payroll management and personnel transactions. With TA
from IDA, a small-scale, limited-scope, decentralized census of the civil service is well
underway and a functional review of ministries is to be carried out to determine the services each
is to provide, the appropriate organization, and the required numbers and skills of personnel.
The Government has eliminated 18,000 ghost and irregular workers from the payroll and is
committed to continuing to eliminate ghost and irregular workers as the census proceeds.
99.   The Government has announced a Public Administration Reform Program  covering
1999-2003 which has two key objectives: to rationalize the size of the civil service to a
reasonable level similar to that of other countries in the region; and to transform the public
administration into a more operational, productive, and responsive organization with acceptable
levels of remuneration. Work would proceed in three phases. Phase I, which covers up to mid-
2000, would involve the completion of key prerequisite activities such as a computerized payroll
system, a small scale census of civil servants, and a functional review of ministries. Phase II,
covering mid-2000 to mid-2001, involves the reorganization of public institutions and staff
redeployment. And Phase III, covering mid-2001 to end- 2003 involves activities which
rationalize workforce size, develop institutional structures and procedures, and improve the
capacity of the civil service.   Technical assistance is ongoing/expected  from  UNDP
(establishment of a remuneration system, decentralization, etc.), ADB (safety nets for retrenched
civil servants), IDA (functional review and census), EU, Canada, and Japan.
100. The SAC program aims to help the Government in carrying out preparatory steps toward
implementing administrative reform in the next phase. As indicated in the LDP, the Government
is committed to preparing a comprehensive action plan for rationalizing the size and function of
the civil service, satisfactory to IDA, based on the findings of the extension of the computerized
payroll system to all ministries, the carrying out of a census of civil servants covering their
personnel data, education, skills, and experience, and a functional review of all ministries.
101.  The Government's medium  term vision, which should guide the preparation of the
comprehensive action plan, is to achieve a lean state whose role is to deliver basic social and
economic services for its citizens in areas where the private sector cannot be expected to
intervene and to ensure sound macroeconomic management and implement policies which
encourage private sector development. The Government also realizes that to achieve this goal it
must strengthen the capacity of the core ministries and regulatory agencies to root out corruption



23
within Government operations and to hold the line ministries accountable for the use of public
resources. Over the medium term, the Government will need to: (a) strengthen the technical
team charged with planning and managing the reforms under the political guidance of the
Council of Administrative Reform; (b) establish a computerized management system and
database for controlling the payroll and personnel movements; (c) identify priority sectors for
public sector intervention and a clear vision of the role of the state; and (d) reorganize the overall
structure and individual ministries to reflect the new role and priorities. In order to provide
improved economic management and service provision, the gradual implementation of more
appropriate ministerial structures and organizations, professional personnel management and a
new remuneration system will need to be accompanied by a sustained effort at professional
renewal, including: voluntary departure and recruitment aimed at re-equipping the public sector
with the human resources which will be needed to undertake its priority tasks; a major training
effort for civil servants identified as trainable and therefore to remain in the service; and sound
policies on the use of donor resources and technical assistance so that on-the-job learning and
capacity building slowly enhance the ability of the civil servants to provide necessary policy
advice and professional expertise.
E. Enhancing Governance and Fighting Corruption
102. Enhancing governance in economic management is critical not only to public sector
performance but also to providing an enabling environment to the development of the private
sector, which must play the leading role in Cambodia's economic growth. Good governance is
key to economic development and poverty alleviation through better managing public resources,
underpinning markets, and stimulating investment. The 1997 World Development Report
demonstrates a strong correlation between private investors' evaluation of a government's
credibility and its record of growth and investment. It shows that corruption fundamentally
undermines state credibility.
103. As described in the preceding sections, the SAC program aims to help the Government to
improve governance in public resource management and public sector management by
strengthening the tax system, forestry management, and expenditure management. In addition,
SAC program aims to assist the Government in formulating a strategy to address the issues of
governance and corruption in economic management and implementing it. It is perceived that
corruption is widespread in Cambodia and is undermining development efforts. IDA's survey of
Cambodian private enterprises which was conducted in September 1998 in the context of the
PER and subsequent interviews demonstrate that corruption reduces the quality of state services,
diminishes the fairness of the application of laws and regulations, reduces the value of state
contracts with private providers, and encourages evasion of the law. Unofficial payments are
often demanded and given both to have Government officials carry out their assigned duties and
to grant special consideration or privileges to the payers. Key contexts for payments include the
granting of business licenses and registration, the evaluation and payment of tax and customs
obligations, connection to public utilities, and the granting, supervision and payment of
government contracts. While recognizing the pervasive problem of low public sector salaries,
reported corruption extends beyond petty gifts requested by low-level officials to carry out their
appointed jobs: it weakens government's ability to mobilize and allocate resources, manage
public expenditure, implement laws and regulations, distribute social services, and underpin
competitive markets.
104. The new Government stated its commitment to combating corruption and strengthening
governance, as evidenced by the Prime Minister's statement at the CG meeting of donors and the



24
Government's letter to IDA. This commitment needs to be translated into a clear strategic
framework and follow-up actions. With assistance from IDA, the Government would formulate a
good governance/anti-corruption strategy and implement it, in full consultation with donors, the
private sector and civil society. The Government designated the Supreme Council for the Reform
of the State, chaired by the Prime Minister as the coordinating body to execute this task. Three
analytical surveys have been conducted in November/December 1999: one of a representative
sample of 1000 households, one of 300 private enterprises, and one of 600 public officials. The
enterprise and household survey focus on evaluation of quality and integrity of various public
organizations/services. These two surveys also collected experience-based information on the
circumstances, frequency and costs of corruption. The public officials survey provides the basis
to relate agency performnance and integrity to specific institutional arrangements, practices and
incentives in agency's management of personnel, budget, service delivery, procurement and
information. Technical assistance is also ongoing from ADB, Australia, and Canada on various
aspects of enhancing governance in public sector. Based on the diagnostic studies of the surveys
and also findings of other initiatives, a national action plan is to be prepared in full consultation
with donors, NGOs, and civil society.
105.  As a second tranche release condition, followingfull consultations with stakeholders, and
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 34 of the Letter of Development Policy, the
Government will have: (a) conducted surveys on governance and corruption, and, on the basis
thereof, prepared a diagnosis and formulated a national action plan acceptable to IDA; (b)
disseminated the findings of the surveys and details of the national action plan; and (c) begun
implementation of the national action plan.
106.  Establishing the rule of law is central to creating clarity in economic transactions and a
level playing field between economic agents. The Government has been reforming the legal
framework with a view to establishing greater certainty and clarity in laws and procedures. As
yet, there are a number of gaps and inconsistencies, and areas where laws and implementing
regulations do not yet exist. In particular, the Government has been preparing a commercial
code since 1995 but it has been delayed in part related to the redrafting the previous drafting
from the French system to the Anglo-Saxon system in accordance with the ASEAN practices. As
stated in the LDP, the Government is committed to establishing a complete and modern
commercial code, including Business Organizations, Trademark, Commercial Arbitration,
Commercial Agency, Bankruptcy, Commercial Contract, Product Liability, and Product Liability
and adopting implementing regulations and required sub-decrees in full consultation with the
relevant business and professional community.  In order to improve the enabling environment
for foreign direct investment in Cambodia, a transparent dispute resolution mechanism for
commercial matters and contracts is essential. In 1960, Cambodia filed an instrument of
accession to the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards but
it has not been ratified. In the LDP, the Government commits itself to submitting to the National
Assembly the required ratification act related to the Convention and adopting appropriate
implementing regulations in a timely manner.
V. The SAC Operation
A. Rationale for the Credit
107.  Rationale.  Cambodia is at a crossroads in making a transition to sustainable
development. In order to make a successful transition, the Government must decisively



25
implement policy actions to resolve the fiscal and governance problems. The political and
security situation improved significantly and the new Government renewed its reform efforts and
is committed to deepening its efforts. The SAC aims to help the Government in its endeavors in
implementing policy actions to address the fiscal and governance problems. The proposed SAC
program is a logical follow-up to our efforts initiated with the PER. With the IMF's PRGF
program for 1999-2002 in place, the SAC program would bring about synergy in assisting the
Government in implementing the necessary reforms more effectively.
108. The SAC program has been prepared in a broad framework of the CAS for FYOO-03. The
proposed SAC is a core element of the CAS. Under the base lending scenario which assumes
satisfactory progress in maintaining macroeconomic stability and in implementing fiscal and
structural reforms, the SAC is envisaged as the first in a series of measures to build a sound
macroeconomic framework and the foundations for good governance in public resource and
public sector management. Building on the implementation of the SAC program, a Public Sector
Reform Credit (FY02) would continue and deepen reforms in public sector management.
B. Credit Amount, Disbursement, and Audit
109.  Credit Amount.  The proposed credit amount is SDR 21.9 million (US$30 million
equivalent). The borrower will be the Kingdom of Cambodia. The credit will be disbursed in
three tranches, subject to the conditions detailed in the Matrix of Policy Actions (Annex II). The
first tranche of SDR 7.3 million (US$10 million equivalent) would become available upon
effectiveness; the second tranche of SDR 11.0 million (US$15 million equivalent), after a
satisfactory review of the implementation of the agreed actions and achievement of the second
tranche release conditions; and the floating tranche of SDR 3.6 million (US$5 million
equivalent), after the satisfactory review of the implementation of the agreed actions and
achievement of the floating tranche release conditions. Unlike standard tranche release, the
timing of the floating tranche release is not pre-specified. Counterpart funds generated by the
SAC will be used to finance part of the Government's budgetary expenditures for economic
development.
110. Disbursement, Accounting, and Audit. The Government will open and maintain a
Deposit Account with the National Bank of Cambodia into which proceeds of the Credit will be
disbursed. The proceeds of the Credit will not be used to finance expenditures excluded under
Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement. If any portion of the Credit is used for
ineligible purposes as defined by the Credit Agreement, IDA will require the Government either
to return that amount to the Deposit Account for use for eligible purposes or to refund the
amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the
Credit. Disbursements under this Credit will not be linked to specific purchases, and therefore
evidence to support disbursements will not be required. To secure the release of each tranche, the
Government will submit a simplified Withdrawal Application against which IDA will disburse
the Credit proceeds into the Deposit Account for the Government's use. The National Bank of
Cambodia, on behalf of the Government, will maintain an appropriate accounting system, in
accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles, providing all necessary information
on the receipt and use of funds channeled through the Deposit Account and will prepare annual
Financial Statements in a format to be agreed at negotiations. The Financial Statements will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of reference agreed
with IDA and in accordance with acceptable international auditing standards. The first audited
Financial Statements will be submitted to IDA within three months of the Government's fiscal
year ended December 31, 2000 and annually thereafter.



26
C. Conditionality and Monitoring
111.  The Government's reform program to be supported by the SAC is set out in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex I) and summarized in the Matrix of Policy Actions (Annex II).
Throughout the duration of the SAC, the Government will maintain a sound macroecononic
framework, as outlined in the Policy Framework Paper.
112.  Board Presentation Conditions. The Government has completed the following actions:
*  The Government has: (a) passed the Sub-Decree on VAT, satisfactory to IDA; (b) continued
its policy disallowing exemptions to the VAT other than those specified in the Law on
Taxation; and (c) reduced the backlog of refunds to those no more than 15 days old following
the approval of refund request and maintained a refund policy that will ensure that all future
refunds are made available within 15 days of approval by the Tax Department.
*  The Government has: (a) initiated a tendering process in a transparent and competitive
manner for a pre-shipment inspection agency, with provisions for achieving the elements and
objectives set out in the second tranche release condition; and (b) used the already
established PSI database as a basis for determining customs valuation during the interim
period.
* The Government has developed and implemented a work program for establishing forestry
crime monitoring capacity of the Department of Forestry and Wildlife, the Ministry of
Environment, and the Council of Ministers, including procurement, staffing, training, and
budgeting, satisfactory to IDA; and (b) reported quarterly on the forest crime monitoring to
the public, including the first full report made available in early February, 2000.
*  The Government has adopted the Sub-Decree on forestry concession  management,
satisfactory to IDA, by encompassing the main provisions from a set of Codes of Practice
and providing the Department of Forestry and Wildlife with an appropriate level of
independence from political interference in enforcement, after consultations with
concessionaires and NGOs.
*  The Government has presented to IDA a plan for increasing expenditures for the key social
and economic sectors (i.e., health, education, agriculture, rural development) over the next
three years, satisfactory to IDA. As an initial phase of the plan, the Government has
presented to IDA the 2000 budget for health (9% of total current expenditure), education
(14% of total current expenditure), and agriculture and rural development (3% of total
current expenditure), showing improvement over the 1999 budget in terms of share in total
current expenditure, as agreed with IDA. In addition, the Governnent has presented to IDA
the budget allocations and the contents of the Priority Action Program (PAP) for health and
education and also for the Accelerated District Development (ADD) program, as agreed with
IDA.
*  The Government has established a budget strategy and enforcement center at MEF, with
adequate mandate, staffing, and procedures, satisfactory to IDA, as a one-stop shop to
streamline the procedures to screen the bids for funding and facilitate cash disbursements to
key social and economic sectors (health, education, agriculture, and rural development), both
at the central level and provincial departments. The Government has also requested



27
provincial treasuries to provide monthly reports to MEF on the variance between the monthly
allocations and actual disbursements to key social and economic sectors, the reasons for the
variance, and measures to be taken to compensate for the variance, and provide the monthly
reports to IDA.
* In full consultation with donors, NGOs, and civil society, the Government has: (a) completed
the identification and registration of soldiers; and (b) formulated a pilot demobilization and
reintegration program, satisfactory to IDA, including provisions for independent financial
and technical audits of the program.
113.  Second Tranche Release Conditions. In addition to maintaining a sound macroeconomic
policy, the Government will have fulfilled the following conditions before the release of the
second tranche:
* The Government will have submitted for adoption by the National Assembly an amendment
to Article 14 of the Law on Investment, and introduced related measures, acceptable to IDA
and in form and substance consistent with paragraph 8 of the Letter of Development Policy,
with a view to rationalizing the incentive regime inherent in the Law on Investment and
eliminating distortions thereunder.
* The Government will have re-established a system of pre-shipment inspection of imports, on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with the policies and principles
laid down in paragraph 11 of the Letter of Development Policy.
e  The Government will have satisfied IDA that it has maintained its quarterly publication on
forestry crime monitoring and that such publication has been made regularly available to the
public, in accordance with the provisions in paragraph 13 of the Letter of Development
Policy.
* The Government will have completed a forestry concession review and taken actions based
on the outcome of the review, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 14 of the Letter
of Development Policy.
* Following full consultation with stakeholders, the Government will have submitted for
adoption by the National Assembly a draft law revising the Forest Law, acceptable to IDA,
and establishing clear responsibility for forest management and administration, and providing
for enforcement authority, inter-sectoral oversight and public accountability.
* The Government will have submitted to IDA satisfactory evidence in terms of the formula
specified in paragraph 19 of the Letter of Development Policy, to show that: (a) the ratio of
actual disbursements of non-wage operating expenditures for the health, education,
agriculture and rural development sectors combined during the year 2000 have been not less
than the corresponding ratio for the remaining sectors combined; and (b) actual
disbursements for the Accelerated District Development (ADD) program during the same
period have been not less than the corresponding budget allocation.
* The Govermnent will have presented to IDA a draft year 2001 budget, acceptable to IDA,
including budget allocations for, and contents of, the Priority Action Program (PAP) and the
ADD, and showing enhanced allocations for health, education, agriculture and rural



28
development sectors in terms of share of total current expenditures as compared with the year
2000 budget.
* Following full consultations with stakeholders, and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 34 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Government will have: (a) conducted
surveys on governance and corruption, and, on the basis thereof, prepared a diagnosis and
formulated a national action plan acceptable to IDA; (b) disseminated the findings of the
surveys and details of the national action plan; and (c) begun implementation of the national
action plan.
114.  Floating  Tranche Release Condition.   This tranche will be released upon the
Government's fulfillment of the following condition. It is expected that this tranche would be
released, at the latest, in the course of the implementation of the year 2001 budget.
* In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 28 of the Letter of Development Policy, the
Government will have: (a) achieved progress satisfactory to IDA in the implementation of
the pilot phase of the demobilization and reintegration program; (b) in full consultation with
stakeholders, conducted an interim review of the progress of the program; and (c) based on
the results thereof, developed a proposal, acceptable to IDA, for the demobilization and
reintegration program.
115.  Performance Indicators.    To effectively measure progress toward development
objectives under the SAC program, performance indicators have been prepared in close
collaboration with the Government and donors and NGOs, in particular thematic donor sub-
groups (fiscal, forestry, demobilization, administrative reform, and social sectors) (Annex III).
Performance indicators do not constitute conditionality per se but rather provide monitorable
indicators to assess the impact of the SAC program.4 Performance indicators will be monitored
jointly with the Government and donor/NGO community.
D. Benefits and Risks
116. Benefits. The proposed SAC would assist the Government in making a successful
transition toward sustainable development with significant poverty reduction and broad-based
economic growth through enhancing the effectiveness of public resource management and public
sector management, the core of which lies with improving governance. Under the CAS base case
scenario (or full reform scenario) which assumes full implementation of the SAC program,
Cambodia would move from the current bottom quintile based on the country policy and
institutional assessments (CPIA) on Bank member countries to the next quintile so that aid
effectiveness would be enhanced, as evidenced in the Bank's recent study on the correlation
between economic management and aid effectiveness.5 Furthermore, Cambodia would improve
enabling environment for private sector development through tackling governance problems.
While the SAC program does not include programs directly targeting the poor, it would
4 It should be emphasized, however, that it would be difficult to isolate the impact of the SAC program on the
outcome indicators.
5 The recent Bank research provided empirical evidence on the positive correlation between the CPIA and
economnic growth based on the cross country regressions. Assessing Aid, World Bank Policy Research Report,
1998, provided empirical evidence on the positive correlation between the country's policy environment and
effectiveness of aid.



29
contribute to improving the access of poor households to basic social and economic services such
as basic education, health facilities, piped water, and rural roads through reorientation of
expenditures toward these sectors. In addition, while the SAC program does not include
programs directly targeting environmental protection, it would contribute to establishing
environmentally sustainable forestry management through enhancement in forest crime
monitoring, concession management, and legal and regulatory framework. According to the
CAS base case scenario, per capita income could increase steadily from US$290 in 1999 to
US$360 in 2002 and further to US$440 in 2005. In parallel, the level of poverty could fall from
36 percent in 1999 to 27 percent by 2002 and further to 19 percent by 2005.6 Although these
potential outcomes would not just stem from the SAC program implementation, the benefit of
implementing the SAC program would be significant.
117.  Risks.  There are four main risks concerning SAC implementation: deterioration in
political stability; insufficient political will; weak institutional capacity; and given the weak
governance environment, funds not being used for the purposes intended.
*  Although armed conflict has ended, and peace has prevailed for more than a year since the
last elections, there is lingering friction between the Government and opposition party
particularly on issues of governance and accountability. The upcoming commune elections
may aggravate this. The eventual trial of former Khmer Rouge leaders could be highly
sensitive. Our ability to mitigate these political risks is limited, except through promotion of
activities that foster greater participation and transparency.
*  The reform program could slacken if the reforms encroach on powerful vested interests such
as the  military  and  businesses.   Potential areas  include  military  demobilization,
canceling/renegotiating non-performing forestry concession contracts, re-establishing pre-
shipment inspection on imports, and rationalizing investment incentives. These risks could
be mitigated through concerted donor/NGO efforts in monitoring the progress of the reforms
in the context of quarterly joint government/donor consultation mechanism and its monthly
donor sub-group meetings.
e Even with the Government's full commitment, implementation of a reform program could be
delayed because of weak capacity of public institutions. We aim to mitigate this risk by: (a)
formulating a clear phased strategy in policy actions; (b) focusing on preparatory steps rather
than the implementation of institutional reforms per se (e.g., administrative and military
reform); (c) focusing on a pilot ministry (e.g., expenditure management); (d) increasing
flexibility in the timing of reform with a floating tranche (e.g., military demobilization); and
(e) assuring that in all the key areas of SAC implementation, institutional capacity is being
built up through well targeted technical assistance (see Annex IV for TA matrix).
*  As the funds available through the SAC are to be used for general budget support purpose,
tracking the usage of funds will be impracticable. Nevertheless, several steps will be taken to
mitigate the risk that credit is misused. First, performance indicators will be monitored
rigorously. Second, the Government will be required to submit several reports on a regular
6 It should be emphasized that these poverty projections are based on the assumption of no change in income
distribution. The recent increase in inequality-- the Gini coefficient rose from 0.38 in 1993-94 to 0.42 in 1997--
suggests that the projections may be too optimistic as widening inequality would offset the growth impact on
poverty reduction. For example, a 10 percent deterioration in inequality would increase the poverty level by 18
percent.



30
basis. Third, information on the SAC will be widely disseminated to the public, leading to
closer participation in and monitoring by civil society. Fourth, an audit of the Deposit
Account will be required on an annual basis to be carried out by independent auditors, using
acceptable international auditing standards.
118.  These risks are not minor. But they are acceptable when viewed relative to the potential
benefits. The next three years constitutes the first serious opportunity in a generation for
Cambodia to launch its development.
E. Government Ownership and Donor/Civil Society Collaboration
119.  Government Ownership.  Government's ownership is key to the success of the reform
program. Throughout the SAC preparation, the task team has collaborated very closely with the
Government, in particular the Interministerial High Level Committee for Economic and
Financial Policies chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance and composed of various
ministers and vice ministers and also its Working Level Committee composed of department
directors, to ensure the Government's commitment/ownership. The Interministerial High Level
Committee for Economic and Financial Policies will be the focal point for the implementation
and monitoring of the SAC program.
120.  Collaboration with Bank Group. The SAC has been prepared in close collaboration with
IFC and FIAS, in particular issues on governance and private sector development with IFC and
issues related to investment incentives with FIAS.
121.  Collaboration with Donors and Civil Society. To strengthen the country's commitment,
enhance sustainability of reforms, and mitigate any adverse impact on would-be losers, IDA has
been closely coordinating with other donors, NGOs, and the private sector. Strong partnerships
with other donors in helping the implementation of the SAC program are highlighted in the TA
matrix.  In particular, under the PFP/PRSP framework, the SAC program has been closely
coordinated with the IMF's PRGF program.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
122.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
February 29, 2000



31
Annex I
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Development Association
Washington D.C., USA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. President:
1.    The Royal Government of Cambodia has been implementing a wide-ranging
reform program since its formation in 1993 and has achieved initial success in stabilizing
the economy, restoring economic growth, and undertaking policy reforms to transform
the economy into a market-oriented one. Since 1996, however, our reform efforts have
weakened, due partly to internal political and external developments, and the progress has
been slow in implementing measures to address key fiscal and governance issues. As a
result, the economic situation became precanrous.
2.    Taking office in late November 1998, the second term Royal Governnent is
keenly aware of the critical need to address the fiscal and governance problems, as
demonstrated in the Royal Government of Cambodia's Platforn on Second Term, 1998-
2003, and has recently taken concrete actions such as implementing the value-added tax
(VAT), curtailing illegal logging and concession contracts in violation of the terns of
contracts, and eliminating ghost soldiers and initiating military demobilization with
registration of soldiers. Our renewed reform efforts were recognized, among others, by
the successful Consultative Group (CG) meeting in February 1999 and the resumption of
IMF assistance under the new Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in October
1999.
3.    Cambodia remains one of the poorest countries in Asia: 36 percent of the
population lives below the poverty line and rural poverty is four times higher than the
poverty incidence in Phnom Penh. To make a transition toward sustainable development
with significant poverty reduction and broad-based economic growth, Cambodia must
substantially upgrade its physical infrastructure and human resources. Toward this end,
the Royal Government, declared as "economic government', is fully aware that it has to
implement a coherent economic program that will produce rapid and broad-based
economic growth over the long term. As its centerpiece, the Royal Government is
committed to tackling its underlying governance problems. In particular, building on the
recent actions taken, the Royal Government will continue and deepen its actions in
addressing weak domestic revenue mobilization, inadequate and inefficient public
expenditure management, and environmentally unsustainable forestry management.



32
REFORM AGENDA
4.    Our reform agenda, which is summarized in the attached matrix of policy actions,
focuses on tackling interrelated fundamental fiscal governance problems which is key to
making a successful transition toward sustainable development. As such, our reform
agenda comprises the following main elements:
* Public Resource Management
(i) Revenue Mobilization
(ii) Forestry Management
* Public Sector Management
(i) Expenditure Rationalization
- Expenditure Reorientation
- Expenditure Management
(ii) Preparatory Steps for Military Demobilization
and Administrative Reform
- Military Demobilization
- Administrative Reform
 Enhancing Governance and Fighting Corruption
REVENUE MOBILIZATION
5.    The Royal Government's development and poverty reduction efforts are
constrained by weak revenue mobilization efforts. Since doubling during 1991-1994,
revenues have remained flat at around 9 percent of GDP until 1998. Our current
estimates reveal that it would be possible to raise this ratio from 11 percent of GDP in
1999 to 13 percent by 2002 by improving collection efforts, expanding the coverage of
the system, and reducing the scope for exemptions. The Royal Government has already
taken a number of measures toward this objective by: introducing a VAT for 1500 large
taxpayers beginning January 1st, 1999; tightening incentives provided to investment
projects by eliminating tax incentives for domestic consumption goods and for resource
and resource processing; eliminating duty exemptions for firms not in compliance with
domestic taxes; and raising fourfold the timber royalty. The Royal Government is firmly
committed to deepening revenue mobilization improvements through: strict
implementation of the VAT; stricter limitations on tax incentives and a further tightening
of incentives given to investment projects; increased efforts to recover arrears from the
private sector; and the enhancement and full transfer to the Treasury of non-tax revenues.
6.    To date, VAT performnance has exceeded expectations. During the first ten months
of 1999, VAT collections (net of refunds) already reached 117 percent of the target for



33
the whole year in the budget. The Royal Government is fully aware that ensuring the
integrity of the VAT is key to the revenue enhancement. Until very recently,
implementation of the VAT was handled by a number of prakas which would not have
full legal standing under the Law on Taxation. To rectify this situation, the Royal
Government adopted the Sub-Decree on VAT implementation on December 24, 1999.
The Royal Governnent is committed to continuing its policy of disallowing exemptions
to the VAT other than those specified in the Law on Taxation, in particular in view of
pressures for exemptions from the VAT as a tax incentive under the Law on Investment.
Refund procedures have proven to be more complicated and time consuming leading to
complaints by taxpayers. The Royal Government began addressing this problem by
reducing the backlog on VAT refunds to those having a maturity of 15 days or less and
refund procedures were streamlined to hold the backlog at that maturity level. Moreover
The Royal Government is extending the coverage of the large taxpayer office to target
provinces that are managed by the Tax Department in a phased manner commensurate
with ability to implement effectively, which should improve the compliance and coverage
across all taxes including the VAT. In addition, to reduce uncertainties about new
withholding tax procedures, the Royal Government will finalize draft Prakas on Tax on
Profit and issue to the public in the first quarter of 2000.
7.    The Royal Government recognizes that the Law on Investment provides tax
incentives that are too generous, thus putting a substantial constraint on increased revenue
mobilization. There is little justification for the tax incentives provided under the Law on
Investment. The Law on Taxation contains very liberal tax-based incentives including: a
20 percent profits tax rate (10-15 percentage points lower than those of other ASEAN
countries); accelerated depreciation; and a 5-year operating loss carry forward. However,
while the statutory profit tax rate at 20 percent in Cambodia is much lower than those in
ASEAN countries, the marginal effective tax rate is much higher because of the high
level of import duties imposed on capital goods and the imposition of a minimum tax.
Because of the poor record of tax compliance, the Government imposes a minimum tax
that is levied on all real regime enterprises including those covered by the Law on
Investment, even if a firm incurs a loss. The Royal Government is aware that such a tax is
an inefficient instrument that has little justification in a modem tax system with good
compliance and administration. In order to enhance Cambodia's competitiveness vis-a-vis
neighboring countries and reduce economic distortions, the Royal Government will
revise, over the medium term, its tax policy by replacing or reducing the taxes that cause
distortions or bias with regard to investment projects. Another important issue is the
current mechanism in determining the length of tax holidays, which is based on a
complex matrix system and constraining administrative capacity. The Royal Government
is fully aware that the current incentive system has the following weaknesses: (a)
sacrificing substantial revenue without significantly attracting investment; (b) bringing
about biases toward "footloose" companies and against long-lived investments; (c)
putting serious pressure on administrative capacity and bringing about governance issues;
and (d) resulting in a very narrow corporate tax base which is detrimental to tax buoyancy
over the longer term.



34
8.    The Royal Government is committed to refonning the current investment
incentives in the context of a more general reform of a tax system which is necessary for
the Royal Government to achieve its growth objectives. As a first step, the Royal
Government will move to a clearer and more transparent tax incentive system which is
more even-handed between domestic and foreign investors and between investors in
different sectors by submitting an amendment to the Law on Investment to the National
Assembly by revising the Article 14 of the Law on Investment with the following main
elements: (a) elimination of the special 9 percent corporate tax rate for all new investment
and phasing the 9 percent rate out to the standard 20 percent under the Law on Taxation
for the next five years for existing approved and operational projects; (b) elimination of
the tax free reinvestment of profits and introduction of an appropriate investment
allowance in the Law on Taxation at a rate to be determined, satisfactory to IDA, and
applicable to all qualifying investment, new or expansion, irrespective of source of
finance, without evaluation; (c) repeal of the current tax holiday provisions and the
introduction of a three year tax holiday, conditional on annual certification of compliance,
to all qualifying new investment, without evaluation; the use of a tax holiday will deny
the tax payer any benefits available under the Law on Taxation during the tax holiday
including initial investment allowance as well as accelerated depreciation allowance; all
current tax holidays provided under the Law on Investment will be grandfathered; and
(d) elimination of the right to the tax free repatriation of earnings and other incomes by
approved enterprises. The Royal Government welcomes TA from FIAS for this important
revision. In addition, the Royal Government is committed to reviewing the tax policy
framework with assistance from the IMF and IDA with the objectives of raising revenues,
enhancing tax buoyancy and equity, and removing distortions that discourage private
investment. Based on the outcome of the review, the Royal Government intends to
introduce a new tax system in the period 2000-02.
9.    The Royal Government is committed to subjecting all imports under the Law on
Investment which are currently exempted from customs duty to a reduced rate, to be
determined with assistance from FIAS and the IMF. The Royal Government recognizes
that natural resources such as minerals, oil and gas represent a larger potential source of
revenues than is being realized presently. The Royal Government is committed to
developing a modern tax framework and transparent procedures for managing natural
resource concessions, including mining, petroleum and forestry with the objectives of
improving their sustainable, efficient  utilization and enhancing revenues to the
Government. With these reform measures, along with the revision of the Law on
Investment and a better legal framework to attract more investors, revenues would be
enhanced by capturing more investment firms under the tax net.
10.   The Royal Government recognizes that there is substantial scope for revenue
gains from improving tax administration, tax audits and customs administration. The Law
on Taxation provided strengthening of administrative law and the Royal Government will
continue to use all means available under the provisions of the Law on Taxation to
improve compliance and enforcement, including establishing targeted working group
with the participation of the private sector, to ensure proper implementation of rules and



35
procedures of tax laws and regulations. The Royal Government is committed to
strengthening the system of information exchange between the Tax Department, Customs
Department, State Property Department, and Council for the Development of Cambodia
(CDC) to monitor effectively the activities of firms approved under the Law on
Investment (e.g., firms that are not current on payment of tax obligations should not be
granted duty exemptions under the Law on Investment). As a means of improving
compliance and making taxpayers recognize the importance of new tax laws and rules,
the Royal Governrment will develop a new audit strategy that will allow for the selective
audit of tax returns in all years open to investigation, with an emphasis on the current tax
year. To date, it has been difficult for the Tax Department to develop a strategy for
handling arrears in tax payments because of a lack of data on their maturity structure. In
the future, the Royal Government will develop a methodology for measuring the maturity
of the outstanding arrears and, for each year maintain data on the total amount of
assessments issued, the total amount of assessments paid, the outstanding assessments
which are less than six months old, and the total amount of outstanding assessments that
are more than six months old, with monthly update.
11.   So far, pre-shipment inspection (PSI) has not realized its potential in raising
import duty revenues and in facilitating speedy import clearance because of incomplete
coverage of imports and lack of complementary improvements in port clearance
procedures. The Royal Government began rectifying this situation by: (a) initiating
tendering process in a transparent and competitive manner for a pre-shipment inspection
(PSI) agency, with provisions for achieving the elements and objectives set out in the
second tranche condition; and (b) using already established PSI database as a basis for
determining customs value during the interim period. Building on this, the Royal
Government will re-establish the PSI system with the following main elements: (a)
extending the PSI to all imports except for a list of goods agreed with IDA; (b) using
pre-shipment inspections valuations for the basis of the import value for customs
purposes; and (c) instituting a system of prepayment of customs duties and other taxes at
imports for all sealed containers based on the pre-shipment inspection report, allowing in
principle immediate clearance of such containers without inspection on arrival, within the
framework of risk management system, whose criteria are satisfactory to IDA. In tandem,
the Royal Government will simplify import clearance procedures at ports by establishing
guidelines, enabling the Customs Department to manage the overall clearance process
and specifying the procedures through which other government agencies will be involved
in that process. The Royal Government welcomes IMF TA to improve the PSI system
and customs administration.
FOREST MANAGEMENT
12.  Improved forest management is critical to the sustainable development of forestry
resource and the realization of significant additional public revenues. Toward reducing
logging to more environmentally sustainable levels and obtaining additional revenues the
Royal Govermment has: (a) cracked down on illegal activities: (b) cancelled some 12
logging concessions for violations of concession contracts or Cambodian law; (c)



36
terminated the log collection quota system; and (d) raised the concession royalty from
$14 to $54 per cubic meter. The Royal Government is committed to taking further
actions in the areas of: (a) forest crime monitoring; (b) concession management; and (c)
improvements in forest law.
13.   The Royal Government will continue its efforts in cracking down on illegal
logging activities with the support of the military, police, provincial authorities, civil
society, and neighboring countries. To better detect forest crime, monitoring capacity is
being increased in key government agencies and a forest crime monitoring unit is being
established with the participation of an outside independent agency (an international
NGO). The Government will continue reporting quarterly on forest crimes to the public
to provide a firmer basis for further investigations and preventive activities.
14.   Present logging concessions operate under a legal and regulatory framework
which does not give adequate consideration to such critical factors as area to be
harvested, forest inventories, and biodiversity protection. A new set of Codes of Practice
was adopted in June 1999 and a new Sub-Decree on Concession Management which
incorporates the main provisions from these Codes and gives the Department of Forestry
and Wildlife an appropriate level of independence from political interference in carrying
out its enforcement activities was adopted in January 2000. In addition, the Royal
Government, with technical assistance from the ADB, is carrying out a performance
review of existing concession contracts and will take actions based on the outcome of the
review, within the framework of Cambodian law and the existing contracts, by: (a)
terminating non-performing contracts, where appropriate; (b) requiring other
concessionaires to present restructuring programs, satisfactory to IDA; (c) and not
awarding any subsequent contracts outside the scope, rules, and procedures set out in the
Sub-Decree on forestry concession management. The Royal Government also intends to
review alternative mechanisms for timber royalties with a view to moving toward more
transparent and market-based pricing principles and establish and apply such a
mechanism to renegotiation of the conracts based on the concession contract review
process.
15.   With poverty in Cambodia overwhelmingly a rural phenomenon, forest resources
must also be used as a means of supporting agriculture and rural development. Under
community forestry, the Royal Government needs to develop means for awarding long-
term forest tenure rights to local communities, indigenous peoples, and other target
groups. The Royal Government will adopt a sub-decree defining a comnmunity forest
policy, after proper consultation with all stakeholders. In addition, the Royal Government
will adopt a new Forest Law, in full consultation with all stakeholders, which will clearly
establish responsibility for forest management and administration, provide for
enforcement authority, intersectoral oversight, and public accountability.



37
EXPENDITURE REORIENTATION
16.   Increasing allocations to key social and economic sectors will be vital to
accelerating economic growth and reducing the incidence of poverty in Cambodia.
Limited revenues have meant that allocations for these areas have been severely
squeezed, especially for non-wage expenditures and often these amounts were not
realized because of diversions to defense and security or because of revenue shortfalls. As
a consequence, budget provisions for education and health as a percentage of GDP
remain among the lowest in the world and allocations for the rural areas are not
commensurate with their share in population or the extent of the problems they face.
17.   The Royal Government has prepared a medium-term  projection of budget
expenditures covering the period 1999-2002. While overall expenditure increases would
be rapid as the result of improved resource mobilization, allocations to key economic and
social sectors would be even more rapid. As a consequence, recurrent budget allocations
as a share of GDP over the next three years would increase in education from 1.3 to 1.8
percent, in health from 0.7 to 1.1 percent, agriculture and rural development from 0.2 to
0.4 percent. The increase of the four priority sectors together as a share of GDP from 2.1
to 3.3 percent is to be made possible by better revenue efforts and savings from military
demobilization. The four sectors' share of the budget would increase from 23 to 32
percent of the budget while defense and security would fall from 42 to 29 percent of the
recurrent budget. As an initial phase of the plan, the Royal Government adopted the 2000
budget showing improvement for the four priority sectors from 23 to 26 percent of total
current expenditure over the 1999 budget. In addition, the Government has presented to
IDA the budget allocations and the contents of the Priority Action Program (PAP) for
health and education and also for the Accelerated District Development (ADD) program.
The Royal Government is also committed to presenting to IDA the budget for the year
2001 showing enhanced current expenditure compared with the 2000 budget in terms of
share in total current expenditure for key social and economic sectors, satisfactory to
IDA. In addition, the Government is committed to presenting to IDA the budget
allocations and the contents of the PAP for health and education and also for the ADD
program, satisfactory to IDA. The PAP is meant to constitute protection of critical
expenditures resulting from revenue shortfalls and would protect such programs as
primary education, basic health, rural roads, etc. The ADD is an advance payment system
to district health centers.
18.   Within the four priority sectors, efforts are being made to concentrate expenditure
increases on those activities which will have an immediate impact, most particularly on
poor families in the rural areas. In education, increases would emphasize teaching
materials, teacher training, critical operating expenses at the school and district level (e.g.
materials, furmiture, utilities) and performance/location- based incentives for teachers. In
health, basic health services, priority preventive programs (e.g. malaria, tuberculosis,
HIV/AIDS) and health staff salaries would be emphasized. In agriculture and rural areas,
rural roads, small irrigation and drinking water facilities and agriculture research and
extension would receive priority. While official salaries are admittedly low, emphasis



38
would be given to increasing the non-wage budget relative to the wage budget, as this is
expected to have more immediate impacts on performance and hence on well-being.
19.   In the past, diversions of budgeted amounts away from the priority sectors toward
defense, security, and other public activities--together with continued revenue shortfalls--
have been a major reason for low implementation in the key economic and social sectors.
In the years 2000-2002, the Royal Government will take increased measures to ensure
that the budgeted amounts in these priority sectors are in fact realized to the fullest extent
possible. The share set out for the four sectors for the year 2000 (26 percent) is a target
which the Royal Government will expend every effort to achieve. Toward this end, the
Royal Government will provide IDA with evidence showing that the ratio of actual
disbursements of non-wage operating expenditures (total current expenditure minus
chapter 10) to the combined budgetary allocations for key social and economic sectors
(i.e., health, education, agriculture, rural development) has been no less than the
corresponding ratio for the rest of the sectors combined.  In addition, the Royal
Government will provide IDA with evidence showing that actual disbursement in riel
amounts for the ADD program has been no less than the budget allocation. Such
evidence will be provided through monthly reports showing the actual allocations
provided to various sectors and an analysis of how these amounts and the cumulative
year-to-date totals compare with the original budget and measures to be taken to achieve
the target. This means that should revenues deviate in a significant way from projections,
adjustments would be made in a way that favors the priority sectors (i.e. should there be
revenue shortfalls, the ratio of actual to budgeted expenditures will be as high or higher
for the priority sectors as for the remaining parts of the budget; in the case of revenue
overshooting, increases in allocations to the priority sectors would be no less than for the
non-priority sectors.)  In addition, the Royal Governmnent will ensure that actual
disbursement in riel amounts for the ADD program will be no less than the budget
allocation. Lastly, in Health and Education, Priority Action Program (PAP) will be
identified as a line item in the budget and these expenditure allocations will be protected
regardless of whether revenues reached projected levels or not. The Royal Government is
committed to implementing the envisaged budgetary framework during 2000-02. To
facilitate this, the Government is committed to disbursing expenditures more evenly over
the year.
20.   The Royal Government is fully aware that increased expenditure allocations to
key social and economic sectors alone will not automatically bring about improved
quality of service in these sectors. In order to ensure improved quality of service in these
priority sectors, the Royal Governnent will take any actions needed to enhance the
effectiveness of expenditure management as described in the following section. In
tandem, the Royal Government will need to carry out administrative reform with a view
to achieving a better paid and motivated civil service. In addition, to ensure better service
delivery, sector-specific policy and institutional issues need to be addressed. In this
regard, the Royal Governnent will address policy and institutional issues in the health
and education sectors, as recommended in the World Bank's recent Public Expenditure
Review.



39
EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
21.   Realization of the intended expenditure reorientation will depend on the Royal
Government's ability to minimize diversions by central and provincial authorities, giving
line ministries greater authority to manage their own budgets, and improving procedures
within the MEF and line ministries. The Royal Government is committed to giving
increased resources to the priority sectors, in particular at the provincial level. In the year
2000 Budget Law, some Ministers and heads of government agencies, who are the chief
financial officers of their own budgets, may delegate budget control authority to their
provincial or municipal department directors after receiving prior consent of the Minister
of Economy and Finance. Furthermore, PAP allocations will be made through Provincial
Treasuries with fewer opportunities for diversion and would be available as a block grant
over which provincial departments have substantial discretion and would be accountable
ex-post for inputs and outputs.
22.   The MEF created a Budget Strategy and Enforcement Center whose function is to
facilitate the implementation of programs and ensure the shift in allocations from defense
and security toward social and economic reconstruction. This Center is to be responsible
for processing funding requests from the priority sector ministries (Education, Health,
Agriculture and Rural Development) and removing bottlenecks to the speedy allocation
of funding. Provincial treasuries are required to submit monthly reports on cash
disbursements to priority sectors and on progress in implementation of programs as
against the annual targets. In this fashion, the Center will receive the needed information
to take corrective actions where progress appears to be lagging. For its part, the MEF will
ensure to provide the monthly spending plans (Prakas) to each line ministry and its
provincial departments on a timely basis prior to the first day of each quarter so that funds
could be utilized more effectively. The Royal Government is fully aware that making the
Center operational is critical to the implementation of priority programs in a timely
manner. The Royal Government welcomes technical assistance from IDA to help make
the Center operational.
23.   To date, public expenditures in Cambodia are largely an amalgamation of annual
government budgets covering mainly recurrent expenditures and donor financed
investment projects. The medium-term view is still missing, the future recurrent budget
of projects is unclear, project implementation progress is not properly monitored and it is
not evident that the investment projects fulfill Cambodia's sectoral or national
development priorities adequately. To improve consistency between investment
expenditures and recurrent expenditure requirements, the Royal Government intends to
introduce a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) beginning with the Ministry of
Health, and as a part of that process the Royal Government intends to prepare a Sector
Wide Approach (SWAP) for coordinating donors. This would ensure more widespread
agreement on objectives, policies and investment priorities and move donor coordination
toward greater consistency with government objectives. Lessons would be drawn from
the MTEF and SWAP and applied to other ministries.



40
24.   To improve the efficiency with which funds are budgeted, allocated and
disbursed, monitored and accounted for, a number of further steps will also be
undertaken. First, to ease the transition from the pre-audit to the post-audit of budget
execution by spending ministries, the Royal Government intends to introduce a simple
integrated computer-based accounting and management system (low end, off-the-shelf,
using double-entry accounting and pre-determined financial management and control
modules) both at the central and provincial levels of the Ministry of Health. Second, the
Royal Government  already has considerable experience since 1996 with advance
payment systems in the form of the Accelerated District Development System (ADD) in
effect in selected districts in the Ministry of Health. The Royal Government will prepare
a review of the experience with the ADD program with a set of recommendations about
how performance could be improved and take steps to resolve the impediments
(accounting system in particular). Building on the findings, the Royal Government is
committed to making necessary adjustments and alterations with a view to extending the
coverage of the ADD within the Ministry of Health and piloting at the Ministry of
Education. Third, the Royal Government intends to extend the scope for advance
payment arrangement in the context of the PAP, in parallel with the improved financial
management systems. Lastly, from increased decentralization of budgetary
responsibilities and increased use of cost-center-based budgeting and moving gradually to
ex-post auditing, all stemming from the PAP and ADD during the coming years, the
Royal Government will accumulate considerable experience on the workings of its
budgetary institutions and their strengths and weaknesses.  On the basis of this
experience, the Royal Government will develop a program for strengthening the capacity
of core budget institutions (MEF, Ministry of Planning, budget departments of line
ministries, budget departments of provinces, Controller's Office, and the Audit Office)
for budget preparation, implementation, and monitoring and reporting, in particular (a)
clarifying and coordinating their respective roles; (b) developing cost- center-based
budgeting; (c) preparing for fiscal decentralization; and (d) strengthening accounting and
internal and external auditing.
MILITARY DEMOBILIZATION
25.   Recognizing the importance of military reform, the Royal Government has
created a National Council for the Demobilization of the Armed Forces which has cross-
ministerial representation. A General Secretariat, responsible to the National Council and
located in the Council of Ministers, has been entrusted with the responsibility of the
demobilization and reintegration program--Cambodian Veterans Assistance Program
(CVAP). The Royal Government is firmly committed to military demobilization and
reintegration through transparent and efficient planning and implementation, in full
consultation with donors, NGOs, and civil society. The CVAP would be carried out over
the years 2000-2003 and has four stages: (a) registration; (b) demobilization; (c)
reinsertion; and (d) reintegration.



41
26.   The Royal Government initially targeted 55,000 soldiers for demobilization,
including special target groups, regular forces, and ghost soldiers. With IDA assistance,
the process of registering military personnel began in January 1999 and has been
completed. As a result, demobilization has in fact already begun as the Royal
Government has identified over 15,000 "ghost soldiers" and 160,000 "ghost children",
reducing military expenditures by over US$ 4 million annually. In addition, over 8,000
widows of dead soldiers are transferring from the Ministry of National Defense to the
Ministry of Women's Affairs and Veterans' Affairs. Once this process of transferring is
completed, over 23,000 soldiers and widows will have been removed from the payroll of
the Ministry of National Defense, reducing the size of the Royal Cambodian Armed
Forces (RCAF) to an estimated 141,000. Thus, about 31,500 soldiers would be
demobilized during 2000-02. Based on the preliminary results and experience with a
pilot phase of 1,500 soldiers to be demobilized in four provinces in 2000 and using the
lessons learned, the overall program would be designed on the following schedule:
10,000 in late 2000; 10,000 in 2001; and 10,000 in 2002. Targeted reintegration would
be offered until the end of 2003.
27.   The Ministry of National Defense, with technical assistance from Australia and
other donors, is in the process of preparing a White Paper on the long-term policy on
national defense. This policy would mainly focus on reforming the RCAF in order to
improve their quality, enhance their efficiency, and make them capable to defend the
nation. The reform of the RCAF would also contribute to national rehabilitation and
development by keeping their size at an appropriate number.
28.   The Royal Government drew up a pilot demobilization and reintegration program,
including provisions for independent financial and technical audits of the program, in full
consultation with donors, NGOs, and civil society. Based on this program, the Royal
Government will implement the pilot phase, with joint government-donors' conduct of an
interim review of the progress of the program, and based on the results of this review,
will prepare the full scale demobilization and reintegration program.
ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
29.   Recognizing the importance of administrative reform to the quality of public
service provision, the Royal Government has recently renewed its efforts with a number
of important steps. First, a Supreme Council of State Reform, chaired by the Prime
Minister, was established in March 1999 and oversees five Councils of Reform for
administration, demobilization, army, justice and fiscal reform. Second, the Council of
Administrative Reform has been given responsibility for all aspects of reforms in
government structure, functions and civil service. Third, a Sub-decree establishing 55
years as the official retirement age has been adopted. And fourth, basic salaries for the
public sector were increased 30 percent as of May 1,1999. In addition, the Government
has put in place a computerized payroll system in five ministries and plans its extension
in a phased manner to establish a control mechanism for payroll and personnel
transactions.



42
30.   The Royal Government's Public Administrative Reform Program  1999-2003
would proceed in three phases.  Phase I (1999 to mid-2000) would involve the
completion of the computerized payroll system to all ministries; carrying out a census of
civil servants (covering personal data, education, skills and experience); and completing a
functional review of all ministries to determine the services each is to provide, the
appropriate organization and the needed number and skills of personnel needed. Phase II
(mid-2000 to mid-2001) would involve reorganization of public institutions and staff
redeployment. Phase III (mid-2001 to end-2003) would involve further steps in workforce
rationalization, changes in structures and improvements in civil service capacity.
31.  In the immediate future, the Royal Governnent will prepare a comprehensive
action plan for rationalizing the size and function of the civil service, satisfactory to IDA,
based on the findings of the extension of the computerized payroll system to all
ministries, the carrying out of a census of civil servants covering their personnel data,
education, skills, and experience, and a functional review of all ministries. Building on
this, over the medium term, the Royal Government aims to achieve a lean state whose
role is to deliver basic social and economic services for its citizens in areas where the
private sector cannot be expected to intervene and to ensure sound macroeconomic
management and implement policies which encourage private sector development. The
Royal Government also realizes that to achieve this goal we must strengthen the capacity
of the core ministries and regulatory agencies to root out corruption within Government
operations and to hold the line ministries accountable for the use of public resources.
Toward this end, the Government aims to: (a) strengthen the technical team charged with
planning and managing the reforns under the political guidance of the Council of
Administrative Reform; (b) establish a computerized management system and data base
for controlling the payroll and personnel movements; (c) identify priority sectors for
public sector intervention and a clear vision of the role of the state; and (d) reorganize the
overall structure and individual ministries to reflect the new role and priorities. In order
to provide high quality economic management and service provision, along with the
gradual implementation of more appropriate ministerial structures and organizations,
professional personnel management and a new remuneration system, the Govemrnent
intends to make sustained efforts at professional renewal, including: (a) voluntary
departure and recruitment aimed at re-equipping the public sector with the human
resources which will be needed to undertake its priority tasks; (b) a major training effort
for civil servants identified as trainable and therefore to remain in the service; and (c)
sound policies on the use of donor resources and technical assistance so that on-the-job
learning and capacity building slowly enhance the ability of the civil servants to provide
necessary policy advice and professional expertise.
ENHANCING GOVERNANCE AND FIGHTING CORRUPTION
32.   The Royal Government recognizes that a lack of good governance is a serious
obstacle not only to public sector perfonnance but also to the development of a robust
private sector because it weakens institutions and encourages corruption, leading to a lack



43
of the rule of law. With an unclear system of laws, arbitrary interpretations, and selective
implementation and enforcement, budget revenues will be leaked, expenditures will be
inefficient, and the quality and effectiveness of public services will be degraded. Good
governance is also critical to the development of the private sector. Good governance
rests on four pillars: (a) accountability, meaning that public officials can be called to task
for their actions; (b) transparency, meaning the low-cost access to relevant information;
(c) predictability, meaning that laws and regulations are clear, known in advance and are
uniformly and effectively enforced; and (d) participation, meaning that the public is
consulted on government actions that affect them.
33.   The Royal Government has been taking actions to improve governance and fight
corruption, including the 1997 Order to improve the management of state assets, Circular
6 on June 11,1999 to clean up tax and customs administration, and proposed draft laws on
audit, budget discipline and the new customs code. As clearly stated by the Prime
Minister at the Consultatative Group meeting in February 1999 and also my letter on
behalf of the Royal Government to Your Excellency in August 1999, the Royal
Government is firnly committed to formulating and implementing good governance/anti-
corruption strategy, in full consultation with donors, the private sector, NGOs and civil
society. The Royal Government has designated the Supreme Council for the Reform of
the State, chaired by the Prime Minister as the coordinating body to execute this task.
The Royal Government has also created a new ministry with a mandate for fighting
corruption, the Ministry of Parliamentary Relations and Inspections.
34.   As important steps toward these objectives, with assistance from IDA, the Royal
Government carried out governance/corruption surveys involving citizens, government
officials, and private enterprises. Based on the survey results, the Government will: (a)
prepare a diagnosis; (b) formulate a National Action Plan based on the results of these
surveys and those sponsored by other donors, in close consultation with the private
sector, NGOs, and the donor community; (c) disseminate the findings of the surveys
along with an action plan to the government officials, the public, and local press; and (d)
begin implementation of the action plan.
35.   Establishing the rule of law is central to creating clarity in economic transactions
and a level playing field between economic agents. The Government has been reforming
the legal framework with a view toward establishing greater certainty and clarity in laws
and procedures. As yet, there are a number of gaps and inconsistencies, and areas where
implementing regulations do not yet exist. The Government has been working to develop
a commercial code since 1995 but it has been delayed in part due to the redrafting of the
previous drafting from the French system to the Anglo-Saxon system in accordance with
the ASEAN practices. The Government is committed to establishing a complete and
modern commercial code, including Business Organizations, Trademark, Commercial
Arbitration, Commercial Agency, Bankruptcy, Commercial Contract, Product Liability,
and Product Liability and adopting implementing regulations and required sub-decrees in
full consultation with the relevant business and professional community. To improve the
enabling environment for foreign direct investment in Cambodia, transparent dispute



44
resolution mechanisms for commercial matters and contracts are essential. In 1960,
Cambodia filed an instrument of accession to the Convention on the Recognition and
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards but it has yet to be ratified. The Government is
committed to submitting to the National Assembly the required ratification act related to
the Convention and adopting appropriate implementing regulations in a timely manner.
CONCLUSION
36.   Cambodia is now at a critical juncture in making a transition to sustainable
development. The Royal Government fully recognizes that challenges are daunting to
achieve objectives outlined in this letter. We believe that our recent policy actions have
created new momentum for reform. The Royal Government is fully committed to
deepening its efforts in reinforcing macroeconomic stability and implementing structural
reforms. The Royal Government is keenly aware that even with our full commitment,
implementation of a reform program could be delayed on account of our weak
implementation capacity. In parallel with effective use of technical assistance, we will
make every effort to strengthen implementation capacity especially in the context of
administrative reform. If we can fully implement our reform program, capitalize on a
supportive international environment, and strengthen implementation capacity, we will be
able to make a successful transition to sustainable development with significant poverty
reduction and broad-based growth.
Yours sincerely,
Keat Chhon
Minister of Economy and Finance
Royal Government of Cambodia



CAMBODIA: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Policy Areas          Actions Taken Before                Actions To Be Taken Before             Actions To Be Taken Before                Accompanying Policy Actions
Board Presentation                  Second Tranche Release                 Floating  Tranche Release
A. Revenue
Mobilization
(1) Taxation      .   The Govemment has: (a) passed                                                                                    .   The Govemment is committed to extending
the   Sub-Decree   on   VAT,                                                                                         the coverage of the large taxpayer office to
satisfactory to IDA; (b) continued                                                                                  target provinces that will be managed by the
its policy disallowing exemptions                                                                                   Tax  Department  in  a  phased  manner
to the VAT  other than those                                                                                        commensurate with  ability to  implement
specified in the Law on Taxation;                                                                                   effectively.
and (c) reduced the backlog of
refunds to those no more than 15                                                                                .   The Govemment is commited to finalizing
days old following the approval of                                                                                   draft Prakas on Tax on Profits and issuing to
refund request and maintained a                                                                                     the public in the first quarter of year 2000.
refund policy that will ensure that                                                                             *   The Govemment is committed to reviewing
all  future  refunds  are  made                                                                                     the tax policy framework with assistance from
available to the VAT  taxpayer                                                                                      the IMF and IDA with the objectives of raising
within 15 days of approval by the                                                                                   revenues, enhancing tax buoyancy and equity,
Tax Department.                                                                                                      and removing  distortions that discourage
private investment. Based on the outcome of    p
the  review, the Government intends to    Ut
introduce a new tax system during the period
2000-2002.
(2) Law on                                             .   The Govemment will have submitted an                                        *   The Govemmoent is committed to developing
Investment                                                  amendment to the Law on Investment to                                           a modem  tax framework and transparent
the National Assembly revising the                                             procedures for managing  natural resource
Article 14 of the Law on Investment, in a                                      concessions, including mining, petroleum and
manner satisfactory to IDA, with the                                           forestry with the objectives of improving their
following main elements: (a) elimination                                       sustainable, efficient utilization and enhancing
of the special 9 percent corporate tax rate                                    revenues to the Govemment.
for all new investment and phasing the 9
percent rate out to the standard 20                                        *   The Govemment is committed to subjecting all
percent under the Law on Taxation for                                          imports under the Law on Investment which
the next five years for existing approved                                      are currently exempted from customs duty to a
and operational projects; (b) elimination                                      duty at a reduced rate, to be determined with
of the tax free reinvestment of profits and                                    assistance from FIAS and IMF.
introduction of an appropriate investment
allowance in the Law on Taxation at a
rate to be determined, satisfactory to
IDA, and applicable to all qualifying
investment,  new    or   expansion,
irrespective of source.of finance, without
evaluation;
H



Policy Areas           Actions Taken Before                   Actions To Be Taken Before    Actions To Be Taken Before                              Accompanying Policy Actions
Board Presentation                     Second Tranche Release                   Floating Tranche Release
(e) repeal of' the current tax holiday
provisionis and the introductioin of a three
year tax holiday, condibtonal on annual
certification  of  compliance,  to  all
qualifying  new  investment,  without
evaluation; the use of' a tax holiday will
deny the tax payer any bettefits available
under the Law on Taxation during the tax
holiday  including  initial  investment
allowansce  as  well  as  accelerated
depreciation allowttnee; all cu-rent tax
liolidays provided under the Law on
ITIvestment will be grandfatliered; and
(d) elimniatioTt of the right to the tax free
repatriatiott  of  earnings  and  other
incomes by approved citeiprises.
(3) Tax and        o    The Goventmetit has: (a) initiated a  *    Tle Govemment will have re-established                                       *    fhe Govet-iment is comnmitted to contiltting to
Clistoms                tendering process in a tranisparenit    the P'SI system with the following main                                              use all mcanis available under the provisions of
Admiiinistration        and competitive mnanner fi- a pre-      elements: (a) cxtetiding the PSI to all                                              the Law ott Taxationl to irnprove compliance
shipmelit inspection (I'SI) agenIcy,   imports except for a list of goods agreed                                             and   enfoicement,  including   establishing
with piovisions for achievinig the     witlt  I)A;  (b)  using  pre-shipment                                                 targeted working grotip with the participation  .
elements and objectives set oLit in    inspections valuations for the basis of the                                           of' the  private  sectoi, to  ensure  proper
the second tranche condition; and      import valste for customs purposes; and                                              impteterinttation of rules and procedures of tax
(b) used the already established PSI   (c) instituting a system of prepayment of                                            laws and regulations.
database as a basis for determining    customs duties and other taxes at imports                                       *    'I'he   Government   is   conimnitted   to
customs valuc during the interim       for all sealed containers based on the pre-                                           strengtltening  the  system  of information
period.                                shipment inspection report, allowing in                                               exchange  between  the  Tax  Department,
pr-inciple immediate clearance of such                                               Clistoms   Department,   State   Property
containers without inspection on arrival,                                            Department, and CDC to monitor effectively
within  the   framework   of  risk                                                  the activities of firms approved under the Law
management system whose criteria are                                                 on Investment (e.g., firms that are not current
satisfactory to IDA.                                                                 on payment of tax obligations should not be
granted duty exemptions under the Law on
ltIvestment).
*    The Govemment is committed to developing a
new  audit strategy that will allow  for the
selective audit of tax returns in all years open
to investigation, with an emphasis on the
current tax year.



Policy Areas    Actions Taken Before                       Actions To Be Taken Before   Actions To Be Taken Before    Aecompanying Policy Actions
Board"Presentation                   Second Tranche Release                  Floating Tranche Release
.   The Government is committed to developing a
methodology for measuring the maturity of the
outstanding arrears and for each year
maintaining data on the total amount of
assessments issued, the total amount of
assessments paid, the outstanding assessments
which are less than six months old, and the
total amount of outstanding assessm-ents that
are more than six months old, with monthly
update.
*   The Government is committed to simplifying
import clearance procedures at ports by
establishing guidelines, enabling the Customs
Department to maniage the overall clearance
process and specifying the procedures through
which other govemment agencies will be
involved in that process.
B. Forestry
Management
(1) Forest Crime    *   The Government has: (a) developed     T                                                                                  The Goverment is committed to continuing
Monitoring              and implemented a work program                                                                                           i The Govemment will have continued    efforts in cracking down on illegal logging
for establishing  forestry  crime     reporting quarterly on forest crimes to                                           with the support of military, police, provincial
monitoring  capacity  of    the       the public to provide a firmer basis for                                           authorities, civil society, and neighbonng
Department  of  Forestry  and         further investigatons and  prevenfve
Wildlife,  the   Ministry   of        activities.
Environment, and the Council of
Ministers, including procurement,
staffing, training, and budgeting,
satisfactory  to IDA;   and  (b)
reported quarterly on the forest
crime monitoring to the public,
including the first full report made
available in early February, 2000.



Policy            Actions Taken Before                Actions To Be Taken Before              Actions To Be Taken Before               Accomipanying Policy Actions
Areas              Board Presentation                   Sescond Tranche Release                Floating  Tranche Release
(2) Concession    *   The Government has adopted the  *   Ihe Govemrnment will have completed the                                      *   The Government is committed to reviewing
Managenment            Sub-Decree on forestry concession    forestry concession contract review and                                         altemative mechanisms for timber royalties
management, satisfactory to IDA,     taken actions based on the outcome of                                          with  a  view  to  moving  toward  more
by   encompassing  the   main       the review, within the framework of                                              transparent  and   market-based   pricing
provisions from a set of Codes of    Cambodian  law  and  the  existing                                             principles and establishing and applying such a
Practice  and   providing   the      contracts, by: (a) terminating  non-                                           mechanism to renegotiation of the contracts
Department  of  Forestry  and        performing contracts, where appropriate;                                        based on the concession contract review
Wildlife with an appropriate level  (b) requiring other concessionaires to                                          process.
of independence  from  political     present    restructuring  programs,
interference in enforcement, after   satisfactory to IDA; and (c) not awarding                                  *   The Government is committed to adopting a
consultations with concessionaires   any subsequent contracts outside of the                                         sub-decree defining a community forestry
and NGOs.                            scope, rules, and procedures set out in                                        policy, afler proper consultation with all
the Sub-Decree on forestry concession                                          stakeholders.
management.
(3) Forest Law                                         *   Following   full  consultation   with
stakeholders, the Govemment will have
submitted for adoption by the National
Assembly a drafl law revising the Forest
Law, acceptable to IDA, and establishing
clear   responsibility   for   forest
management and administration, and
providing for enforcement authority,
inter-sectoral  oversight  and  public                                                                                     Co
accountability.
C. Expenditure
Rationalization
(1) Expenditure           The Govemmeiit will have provided IDA    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     . The   Govemnment  is  committed   to
(I) Expenditure    *   The Govemrnment has presented to  *   The Govermentwill haveprovided IDA                                             implementing  the  envisaged  budgetary
Reorientation          IDA   a  plan  for  increasing       with evidence showing that the ratio of                                         framework during 2000-02. T'o facilitate this,
expenditures for key social and      actual  disbursements  of  non-wage                                            the Govemment is committed to disbursing
economic  sectors  (i.e., health,    operating  expcnditures  (total current                                        expenditures more evenly over the year.
education,   agriculture,   rural    expenditure minus chapter 10) to the
development) over the next three     combined budgetary allocations for key                                     *   The Government is committed to addressing
years, satisfactory to IDA. As an    social and economic sectors (i.e., health,                                     policy and institutional issues in the health and
initial phase of the plan, the       education,     agriculture,    rural                                           education sectors, as recommended in the
Government has presented to IDA      development) has been no less than the                                         Public Expenditure Review.
the 2000 budget for health (9% of    corresponding ratio for the rest of the
total    current    expenditure),    sectors combined.  In addition, the
education (14%  of total current     Government will have provided IDA
expenditure), and agriculture and    with  evidence  showing  that actual
rural development (3%  of total      disbursement in rei  amounts for the
current  expenditure),  showing      ADD program has been no less than the
improvement over the 1999 budget     budget allocation. Such evidence will



Policy Areas          Actions Taken Before                Actions To Be Taken Before             Actions To Be Taken Before                Accompanying Policy Actions
Board Presentation                  Second Tranche Release                 Floating Tranclte Release
in terms of share in total current   have been provided through monthly
expenditure, as agreed with IDA.     reports  showing the actual allocations
In addition, the Govemment has       provided to various sectors and an
presented  to  IDA  the  budget      analysis of how these amounts and the
allocations and the contents of the  cumulative year-to-date totals compare
Priority Action Program (PAP) for    with the original budget and measures to
health and education and also for    be taken to achieve the targets.
the     Accelerated    District
Development (ADD) program, as  *   The Govemment will have presented to
agreed with IDA.                     IDA  the budget for the year 2001
showing enhanced current expenditure
compared with the 2000 budget in terms
of share in total current expenditure for
key social and economic sectors (i.e.,
health, education,  agriculture,  rural
development), satisfactory to IDA. In
addition, the Govemment will have
presented to IDA the budget allocations
and the contents of the Priority Action
Program (PAP) for health and education
and also for the Accelerated District
Development    (ADD)    program,
satisfactory to IDA.
(2) Expenditure    *   The Govemment has established a                                                                                 *   The Govemment is committed to providing the
Management             Budget Strategy and Enforcement                                                                                      monthly spending plans (Prakas) to each line
Center at MEF, with adequate                                                                                         ministry and its provincial departments on a
mandate, staffing, and procedures,                                                                                   timely basis prior to the first day of each
satisfactory to IDA, as a one-stop                                                                                   quarter.
shop to streamline the procedures
to screen the bids for funding and                                                                              *   The Government is committed to developing a
facilitate cash disbursements to key                                                                                 program for strengthening the capacity of core
social  and  economic  sectors                                                                                       budget  institutions  (MEF,  Ministry  of
(health, education, agriculture, rural                                                                               Planning,  budget  departments  of  line
development), both at the central                                                                                    ministries, budget departments of provinces,
level and provincial departments.                                                                                    Controller's Office, Audit Office) for budget
The Govemment also has requested                                                                                     preparation, implementation, and monitoring
provincial treasuries  to provide                                                                                    and reporting, in particular (a) clarifying and
monthly reports to MEF on the                                                                                        coordinating  their  respective  roles;  (b)
variance  between  the  monthly                                                                                      developing cost center-based budgeting; (c)
allocations    and      actual                                                                                      preparing for fiscal decentralization; and (d)
disbursements to the key social and                                                                                 strengthening accounting and internal and
economic sectors, the reasons for                                                                                    extemal auditing.
the variance, and measures to he
thevfak nto   an    esre  ob                                                                                         The Government is committed to initiating a
taken  to  compensate  for  the                                                                                      Medium   Term   Expenditure  Framework
variance, and provide the monthly                                                                                   (MTEF) in the Ministry of Health as pilot, and,
reports to IDA.                                                                                                      as part of that process, preparing a Sector
Wide Approach (SWAP) for coordinatiiig
donors.



Policy Areas    Aetions Taken Before                        ions TX Be Taken Btfore   Acos T Be Taken Before    Accompanying IPolicy Actions
o        Pardesentafiodn            Second Tranche Release                 Fl"Oting Tranch         el:ease
*   The Govemment is committed to preparing a
review of the experience with the Accelerated
District Development (ADD) program with a
set  of  recommendations   about  how
performance could be improved andtake steps
to resolve the impediments (accounting system
in particular). Building on the findings, the
Govemment is committed to making necessary
adjustments and alterations with a view to
extending the coverage of the ADD within the
Ministry of Health and piloting at the Ministry
of Education.
*    The Govemment is committed to introducing
a simple integrated computer-based accounting
and management system (low end, off-the-
shelf software using double entry accounting
and pre-determined financial management and
control modules) at the central and provincial
levels of the Ministry of Health as a pilot.
*   The Govemment is committed to extending    U'
the scope for advance payment arrangement in    o
the context of the Priority Action Programs, in
parallel  with  the  improved  financial
management systems.
D. Preparatory
Steps for
Military
Demobilization
and
Administrative
Reform                                                                                           *   In full consultation with donors,
(I) Military      *   In full consultation with donors,                                               NGOs, and  civil society, the
Demobilization         NGOs, and  civil society, the                                                  Govemment will have: (a) achieved
Govemment has: (a) completed the                                               progress satisfactory to IDA in the
identification and registration of                                             implementation of the pilot phase
soldiers; and (b) formulated a pilot                                           of  the   demobilization   and
demobilization  and reintegration                                              reintegration program; (b) in full
program, satisfactory  to  IDA,                                                consultation  with  stakeholders,
including    provisions    for                                                 conducted an interim review of the
independent financial and technical                                            progress of the program; and (c)
audits of the program.                                                         based  on  the  results  thereof,
developed a proposal, acceptable to
IDA, for the demobilization and
reintegration program.



Policy Areas    Aetions Taken Before                      Actions To Be Taken Before    Actions To Be Taken Before    Accompanying Policy Actions
Board Presentation                   Seconid Tranche Release                FPlating Tranche Release
(2)Administrative                                                                                                                       *   The Govemment is committed to preparing a
Reform                                                                                                                                       comprehensive action plan for rationalizing
the size and function of the civil service,
satisfactory to IDA, based on the findings of
the extension of the computerized payroll
system to all ministries, the carrying out of a
census of civil service covering their personnel
data, education, skills, and experience, and a
functional review of all ministries.
E. Enhancing                                           *   The Govemment will have: (a) conducted                                       *   The Govemment is committed to establishing
Governance and                                              surveys on govemance and corruption (a                                           a complete and modem  commercial code,
Fighting                                                    survey of citizens, a survey of govemment                                        including Business Organizations, Trademark,
Corruption                                                  officials, and a survey of enterprises); (b)                                     Commercial Arbitration, Commercial Agency,
prepared diagnosis of problems based on                                         Bankruptcy,  Commercial  Contract,  and
surveys; (c) formulated a National Action                                       Product Liability and adopting implementing
Plan  for enhancing  govemance  and                                             regulations and required sub-decrees in full
fighting corruption by incorporating not                                        consultation with the relevant business and
only the main findings of the surveys but                                       professional community.
also  those  of other  initiatives  on
govemance and corruption assisted by                                        *   The Govemment is committed to submitting to
other donors, in close collaboration with                                       the National Assembly the required ratification
the private sector, NGOs, and  civil                                            act related  to  the  Convention  on  the
society,  satisfactory  to  IDA;  (d)                                           Recognition  and  Enforcement of Foreign  t.
disseminated the findings of the surveys                                        Awards    and    adopting    appropriate
along with action plan on how to resolve                                        implementing regulations in a timely manner.
problems to the govemment officials, the
public, and local press, as appropriate; and
(e) begun implementation of action plan.






52
Annex III
CAMBODIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. Macro
*  GDP growth (4.5 % in 1999 -- 6.0 percent in 2002)
*  Per capita GDP (US$290 in 1999 -i US$360 in 2002)
*  Inflation (5 % in 1999 4 4 % in 2002)
B. Revenue Mobilization
*  Domestic revenue as share of GDP (11.2 % in 1999 - 13.2 % in 2002)
* Amounts of VAT refunds and elapsed time between approvals and refunds
* Arrears in tax payments as % of actual tax payments
* Amounts of tax and customs duty exemptions granted under the Law on Investment
* Amounts of ad hoc tax and customs duty exemptions
* Share of imports covered under pre-shipment inspection
C. Forestry Management
* Revenues from forestry sources as % of GDP and % of budget revenue
* Log harvests (in cubic meters) in relation to concession management plans
* Forestry crime infractions identified and cases brought to trial
* Public disclosure of concession contracts and operational results
* Promptness in notifications of cancellations and/or needs for restructuring of
concession contracts
* Number of contracts cancelled and restructured
* Appropriateness of consultations with all stakeholders in the preparation of the Forest
Law, Sub-decree on concession management, and Sub-decree on community forestry
D. Expenditure Rationalization
* Share of recurrent budget expenditures devoted to priority sectors (health, education,
agriculture, and rural development), in terms of share in total recurrent expenditure
(23 % in 1999 4 32 % in 2002) and in terms of GDP (2.1 % in 1999 - 3.2 % in
2002)
* Actual disbursements of non wage operating expenditures compared with the
budgetary allocations for priority sectors (health, education, agriculture, and rural
development)
* % of budget expenditures under the advance payment arrangement



53
* Number of provinces and quarterly disbursement ratios under the Priority Action
Program
* Number of provincial ministry departments running automated accounting system
*  Number of provincial ministry departments for which external audit activity has
occurred
* Number of provincial ministry departments providing detailed monthly reports of
actual expenditures against budget
E. Poverty and Social Indicators
* Poverty for the whole country (from 36 percent in 1997 to 27 percent in 2002).
* Rural poverty
Health
* % of population with access to primary health care
* % of health centers that provide minimum package of activities (MPA) drugs
* % of referral hospitals providing comprehensive referral services
* % of children under 1 year fully immunized
Education
* Primary and secondary school enrollment rates, male and female
* Repetition and dropout rates at primary and secondary school level
* Increase in text books per student
* Improvement in average level of teacher education and training
Agriculture and Rural Development
I Increase in yield of paddy
* % of land under cultivation
* Vaccination coverage of cattle and buffaloes
* Number of farmers trained in integrated pest management
* Kilometers of rural roads constructed, rehabilitated, and maintained
* Irrigation schemes constructed, rehabilitated, and maintained
F. Military Demobilization
* Defense expenditure both in terms of share in total recurrent expenditure and in terms
of GDP
* Number of ghost soldiers eliminated from payroll
* Number of soldiers discharged from services
* Numbers of soldiers and families settled in communities of their choice
* Standard of living of discharged soldiers/families one year following discharge
G. Administrative Reform
* Number of ministries and agencies covered under automated payroll system
* Reductions in ghosts and redundant workers as a result of civil census



54
* Restructurings and reorganizations of ministries and agencies as a result of functional
review
H. Enhancing Governance and Fighting Corruption
*  Progress, openness, and broad participation (officials, parliament, donors and NGOs,
civil society, press) in dissemination workshops on results of governance and
corruption surveys
*  Progress, openness, and broad participation (officials, parliament, donors and NGOs,
civil society, press) in the preparation of a national action plan for enhancing
governance and fighting corruption
*  Implementation of "early wins" in action plan






55
Annex IV
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MATRIX
Policy Area                            Technical Assistance                           Source                  Status
A. Resource Mobilization
*    Reviewing the tax policy framework                     IMF                   Expected
*    Developing altemative tax schemes to                   IMF                 Forthcoming
compensate for tariff reduction
*    Implementing the VAT                                   IMF                   Expected
*    Revising the Law on Investment                         FIAS                Forthcoming
*    Strengthening customs administration and PSI           IMF                  Underway
system
B. Forestry Management
*    Establishing forestry crime monitoring        IDA/FAO/UK/Australia           Underway
*    Reviewing concession contracts                         ADB                  Underway
*    Improving concession management                        IDA                   Underway
*    Revising Forest Law                                    ADB                   Expected
.    Developing community forestry                          ADB                   Underway
C. Expenditure Rationalization
*    Strengthening the Budget Strategy and                  IDA                 Forthcoming
Enforcement Center and implementing Priority
Action Program
*   Strengthening public investment management            ADB/IDA                Underway
system
*    Introducing an accounting and management             Australia              Underway
system in provincial heath departments
*    Introducing SWAP for Health Ministry                   WHO                  Underway
D. Preparatory Steps for
Military Demobilization and
Administrative Reform
*    Formulating and implementing a pilot               Germany/lDA               Underway
demobilization and reintegration program
*    Strengthening the General Secretariat of CVAP           IDA                  Underway
*    Carrying out a functional review and a census of        IDA                  Underway
civil service
*    Establishing remuneration system, decentralization     UNDP                  Underway
*   Designing safety nets for resettlement civil            ADB                   Expected
services
E. Enhancing Governance and
Fighting Corruption
*    Conducting surveys on govemance and                    IDA                   Underway
corruption, disseminating the findings, and
adopting an action plan
*    Preparing a govemance paper                            ADB                   Underway
*    Training govemment officials for anti-corruption     Australia              Forthcoming
campaign
*    Judiciary reform                                      Canada                 Underway
___________________________________________________________ I






56
Annex V
Law on Investment and Marginal Effective Tax Rates
A.    The current system  of investment incentives in Cambodia
1.     Table 1 below details the investment incentives currently provided by the Law
on Investment. These are very generous when compared to Cambodia's regional rivals.
See Table 2 for an outline of those schemes. Whilst most of Cambodia's rivals provide
for tax holidays none provide any of the post holiday incentives - nine per cent
corporate tax rate for the life of the project, exemption from corporate income tax for
reinvested profits and tax free dividends - provided by the Law on Investment. Indeed
the statutory provisions of the Law on Taxation are more than competitive (See Table
2) and as such should not require extra "top up" incentives.
Table 1:       Current Cambodian Investment Incentives
Instrument                -TIncentive
Tax Rate                      reduced corporate tax rate of 9% for the life of the project;
tax holidays for up to 8 years depending on the characteristics of the
project,
Tax Losses                    five year carry forward of tax losses;
Distribution of Profits        profits reinvested in assets of enterprises in Cambodia are exempted from
all corporate tax;
tax free repatriation of profits;
tax free distribution of dividends and profits;
Trade Taxes                   exemption from import duty on all imports for certain projects including
exporters; and
exemption from any export tax.
2.     That being said, the provision in the Cambodian Law on Taxation of a minimum
corporate income tax equal to one per cent of turnover changes completely Cambodia's
competitive position. All corporate taxpayers are subject to this provision irrespective
of their tax status i.e. whether they are currently enjoying a tax holiday or a
concessionary rate of nine per cent. This minimum tax is neither a normal income tax,
given its base is not taxable income but turnover, nor a normal consumption tax given
that whilst its base is turnover, a classic base for consumption taxes, it is creditable
against corporate income tax. Given its base its effect on the corporate tax liability of a
taxpayer will depend on the taxpayer's:
a)     ability and need to pass the tax on to the customer; and
b)     profit margin; or



57
c)      ability to avoid or evade payment of the minimum tax.
Table 2:        ASEAN - Corporate and personal tax provisions - 1999
Cambodia    Thailand.   Singapore.    Malaysia.   Philippines
Tax Rates
Corporate'
General2              20.00%      30.00%      26.00%       28.00%      35.00%
Holiday
Rate                   0       0.00%       0.00%        8.40%       0.00%
Period               1-8          3-8        5-10           5           6
Personal
Interest Income       15.00%      15.00%      28.00%        5.00%      20.00%
Equity Income3         0.00%      10.00%       3.00%        0.00%       0.00%
Initial Investment
Allowance4
Bldg                  0.00%       0.00%      25.00%       10.00%       0.00%
Mach                  0.00%       0.00%      20.00%       20.00%       0.00%
Tax Allowance5
Bldg                  5.00%       5.00%       3.00%        2.00%       5.00%
Mach           12.5% - 25.0%     20.00%       8.00%       15.00%      20.00%
3.      For a typical corporate taxpayer, subject to a 20 per cent corporate income tax
on taxable income, provided the profit margin exceeds five per cent the minimum tax
obligation will be less than the corporate income tax liability and the taxpayer will
receive full credit for the minimum tax payments against the 20 per cent corporate
' Cambodia subjects all corporate taxpayers to a minimum corporate tax equal to one per cent of
turnover. This tax is applied irrespective of the tax status.
2 Cambodia provides a nine per cent rate for approved enterprise to apply for the life of an investment
after the expiration of an tax holiday period.
3 All countries, except Cambodia, provide for full imputation credits for corporate tax paid on dividends
against personal income tax obligations. In both Malaysia and the Philippines, where the top personal tax
rate equals the corporate rate, this imputed credit fully meets their obligation and so there is effectively
no additional tax on equity income at the personal level. However, in both Thailand and Singapore, the
top personal tax rate is higher than the corporate rate, at 37 per cent and 28 per cent respectively. Thus
in both these countries, the imputed credits are insufficient to meet the personal tax obligations of
investors on the top personal tax rates. In Thailand, a further 10 per cent tax is levied, for an individual
on the top rate, on the dividend distributed after corporate tax. In Singapore, a further 2.70 per cent is
levied.
4 These are average rates for the category. Cambodia exempts, for approved enterprises, reinvested
profits from income tax. This amounts to a 100% initial investment allowance up to an amount equal to
taxable profits.
5 These are average rates for the category.



58
income tax. Thus for typical corporate taxpayers the statutory 20 per cent rate is but a
minimum rate to which a taxpayer could be subjected.
4.    Note that even if the corporations makes a loss it is still subject to the minimum
tax. The picture is only slightly different for corporations enjoying tax holidays or
concessionary nine per cent income tax rate. In these circumstances the story is
basically the same, the statutory tax exemption provided to approved enterprises during
a tax holiday implies a zero income tax rate but this is only a minimum rate which may
be approached but never attained as the taxpayer must always pay the minimum tax
which, of course, will always be greater than the zero tax obligation provided for under
the tax holiday.
5.    Thus, any typical corporate taxpayer whose profit falls below five per cent will
have a need to pass on the minimum tax to its customers. Most, however, will not
have the ability. That will be reserved to those investments whose customers are
effectively blocked from international competitive forces. This restricts the ability to
pass on to a section of the service industry and from those primary and secondary
industries whose products enjoy some natural monopoly. Most manufacturers whether
they be exporters or subject to import competition will not be able to pass on the tax. It
is conceivable that some section of the service sector which operate in a natural
monopoly with little domestic competition will be able to pass on the tax. Examples
may include luxury hotels, legal and accounting firms.
6.    Thus the minimum tax on turnover implies for the typical corporate taxpayer,
income tax rates in excess of the statutory 20 per cent. These implied rates cannot be
significantly reduced by the provision of investment allowances or further tax holidays
or concessions as these would have no effect on the corporations minimum tax
obligation. Thus no incentive to invest can be provided, in the face of the minimum
tax, by the provision of investment allowances or tax holidays or concessions for the
majority of investments, whose profit margins fall below five per cent, as they would
not reduce the corporation's liability.
B.    A general assessment of Cambodian and tax based incentives
7.    The impact of taxes on investment depends on a range of features; the rate of
company tax, depreciation allowances, interest payment deductions, customs duties,
and the personal taxation of dividends. Non tax factors such as inflation and the
interest rate also play a critical role. This inherent complexity - exacerbated by the
range of tax incentives - can make it difficult to gauge the net impact of Cambodia's
tax incentives on the financial performance of an approved firm.
8.    The marginal effective tax rate (METR) on company income offers a useful
frarnework that captures the interaction of these various factors. It measures distortions
that are created by the taxation of capital income imposed at the corporate and personal
levels on marginal investments; i.e. it is an estimate of the effective tax rate levied on



59
the income, received by an investor, generated by the last marginal dollar invested. The
METR is function of: the corporate tax rate; the effective maximum personal tax rate
on interest income; the effective maximum personal tax rate on dividend income; the
import duty on capital goods; any initial and recurrent depreciation allowances
permitted by the tax code; the applicable economic depreciation rates; and certain
macro-economic variables such as nominal interest rates, inflation rates, and capital
structure - all these assumptions are documented in Table 7.
9.    The METR is calculated by estimating the pre- and post-tax rates of return that
are received by investors and is defined as the proportional difference between these
two rates of return. For example, the METR is 40 percent if the rate of return is 10
percent in the absence of taxes and falls to 6 percent when taxes are applied. The
METR thus provides a simple summary measure of the magnitude of taxes and tax
incentive. The METR estimates should be interpreted as illustrative of relative tax rates
and incentives rather than specific, absolute values.
10.   The minimum tax complicates the issue.  As detailed in Section A, if an
obligation under the taxation of profits exceeds the minimum tax then the final obligation
is the tax on profit. However, if that latter obligation is less than the minimum tax, which
must be the case during a tax holiday, then the minimum tax must be paid. Thus the final
tax obligation is the greater of the tax on profits and the minimum tax.
11.   Thus the primary issue is: how much tax will the minimum tax be for an
enterprise and what will its relation be to the tax on profit? This can be best resolved by
converting the minimum tax and tax on profit to the same basis e.g. a ratio of the same
base rather than the two bases to which they actually apply.  To do so requires
information on likely profit margins. Table 3 examines the effect of the imposition of a
minimum one per cent tax on turnover as per the statutory provisions of the Cambodian
Law on Taxation on a range of profit margins. At a five per cent margin a one per cent
turnover tax is formally equivalent to a 20 per cent income tax. At rates margins below
five per cent the equivalent income tax rate rises proportionally. A random sample of
200 very large South East Asian corporations indicates that only some 50 per cent of
turnover and some 33 per cent of corporations could be expected to generate profit
margins at or greater than 50 per cent. By corollary, some 50 per cent of income and
some 67 per cent of corporations would face equivalent income tax rates greater than the
Cambodian statutory rate of 20 per cent where a one per cent turnover tax applied. These
equivalent rates would not be reduced by the provision of investment allowances or tax
holidays or concessions as these would have no effect on the corporations minimum tax
obligation. Thus no incentive to invest would be provided by the provision of investment
allowances or tax holidays or concessions for the majority of investments, whose profit
margins fall below five per cent, as they would not reduce their liability.



60
Table 3:      Equivalent corporate tax rate for a range of profit margins(%)
Status        f Proportion  Equivalent
of Sample  Corporate
%       Tax Rate
Loss Making Enterprises      27.00
Profit Margin = < 1% of      12.50        100
Turnover
Profit Margin = < 2% of      10.00         50
Turnover
Profit Margin = < 3% of       8.50         33
Turnover
Profit Margin = < 4% of       3.00         25
Turnover
Profit Margin = < 5% of       6.50         20
Turnover
Profit Margin >5% of         32.50         20
Turnover
12.    The first row of Table 4 reports the METRs for Cambodia, under the assumption
that the minimum tax applies, for investments that enjoy no concessions from income tax
and customs provisions. It is immediately obvious that if investors in Cambodia were to
face the standard provisions without concessions, they would face a marginal effective
tax rates of from infinity to a minimum of 35 per cent depending on the profit margin -
rates that are substantially higher than the statutory company tax rate of 20 percent.
13.    The elimination of the minimum  tax would reduce the METR to a maximum
(rather than a minimum) of 35 per cent for all firms irrespective of their profit margin and
would permit further reductions. Without the removal of the minimum tax no further
reductions are possible.
14.   The reasons for this high rate is evident in the table. Consider each line in turn:
First, one reason for the use of fiscal incentives in Cambodia is to offset the effects of
customs duties. Providing an exemption from the duty on capital goods lowers the
METR significantly and demonstrates clearly that the customs duty on capital goods is a
disincentive to investments. - This adjustment leaves the METR at 18 per cent which is
slightly below the statutory company income tax rate of 20 percent.
Second, tax holidays decreases the METR to 9 per cent in the first year of the holiday
reflecting the personal tax paid on interest payments.
After a tax holiday expires the corporate tax rate for an approved enterprise is set at 9 %
and capital imports again incur a 15 per cent customs duty. Under these conditions, the



61
METR is 32 per cent. The rate rise reflect the loss of customs duty concessions on
investments and the lower value of depreciation allowances.
Further, after the expiration of a tax holiday, an approved enterprise may deduct all
reinvested profit from taxable income. This incentives reduces the METR to 27% in
comparison to the 35% faced by a normal investment.
Table 4:       Cambodia's marginal effective tax rates in using standard income
tax provisions (%)
Minimum Tax             Profit Margin              Condition          METR
With Minimum Tax        < = Zero                 With Interest Deductibility  Infinite
= One Per Cent          With Interest Deductibility     100
= Two Per Cent          With Interest Deductibtlitv     49
= Three Per Cent        With Interest Deductibility     41
= Four Per Cent         With Interest Deductibility     37
> = Five Per Cent       With Interest Deductibility     35
Without Minimum Tax     NA                       With Interest Deductibility     35
NA                      Adjust for Customs Duty          18
Concessions
NA                      Adjust for Tax Holiday            9
After Tax Holiday
NA                       With lower 9% rate              32
NA                      Plus zero tax on reinvested      27
prorits1
15.    Table 5 presents METRs for each possible tax status by profit margin.  As
illustrated, normal taxpayers cannot reduce their METR below 35%. While average
taxpayers on the concessionary corporate tax rate enjoying no more than a five per cent
profit margin face the same METR of 35 per cent they may face a reduced METR of
32 per cent but only if their profit margin is greater than 11 per cent. Those enjoying a
tax holiday face an altogether different set of possible METRs due to the impact of the
exemption from customs duty on capital imports. This exemption raises the after tax
return on invested capital at all levels of profit and subsequently reduces the METR at
each level. Consequently, the tax holiday reduces the METR of a typical tax payer on
a five per cent profit margin from 35 per cent to 18 per cent. Note carefully that it is
the exemption from customs duty on capital goods that achieves this general reduction
and not the exemption from corporate income tax as this latter exemption is overridden
by the necessity to pay the minimum one per cent tax on turnover irrespective of tax
status. The tax holiday does however allow taxpayers with high margins to reduce their
METR below the typical 18 per cent.



62
Table 5:       Corporate Income Tax Rates and METRs Implied by a One Per
Cent Minimum Tax (%)
Tax Status
Normal                     CDC Approved Enterprise
Normal 20% Corporate Rate  Concessional 9% Corporate    Tax Holiday 0% Rate +
+ Customs Duty       Rate + Customs Duty   Customs Duty Exemption
Profit Margin   Equivalent    METR     Equivalent    METR     Equivalent    METR
Rate                   Rate                   Rate
Loss          Undefined    Infinite   Undefined   Infinite    Undefined   Infinite
0%           Undefined     Infinite   Undefined   Infinite   Undefined    Infinite
1%                100        100         100         100        100         100
2%                 50         49          50          49         50          38
3%                 33         41          33          41         33          26
4%                 25          37         25          37         25          21
5%                 20         35          20          35         20          18
7% - Garments          20          35        14.3         33        14.3         15
10%                20          35          10         32          10          13
11.11%              20          35          9          32           9          13
20%                20          35          9          32           5          11
50%                20          35          9          32           2          10
16     In conclusion, then the METR rate faced by an average Cambodian investor is a
minimum of 35 per cent and 18 percent during a tax holiday which are well above the
statutory company income tax rate of 20 percent; the tax holiday rate of zero and the
post tax holiday rate of 9 per cent.
17.    Finally, to the issue of the tax exemption currently provided to the reinvested
profits of approved enterprises. This amounts to providing a 100 per cent initial
investment allowance up to an amount equal to taxable income to all taxpayers. Such a
provision is unnecessarily restrictive and maybe unnecessarily generous. It appears
designed to achieve two targets: to promote investment and to retain profits in
Cambodia. As is usual when an instrument is designed to hit more than one target, it
fails to achieve either satisfactorily. Investors finance investments both from retained
earnings and from debt with retained earnings being represented by both current and
past profits. This provision provides a benefit only to those investments financed out of
current earnings. Those financed through the use of past earnings or debt are denied
any benefit. A more usual investment allowance, which is independent of financing
source, would avoid such discrimination. The investment allowance could be set at any
level - e.g. 10 per cent, 30 per cent, 50 per cent, 100 per cent, 150 per cent -



63
commensurate with Government's objectives and prudent financial management. Let
the decision as to how to fimance the investment be made by the investor commensurate
with the corporations objectives and available resources. Whilst not recommending it
there is nothing stopping Government from setting an investment allowance at 100 per
cent or higher as is implicitly the case with the current exemption. Many Governments
have used just such an instrument to promote certain desired and specified investments.
C.    Impact of the tax system on the FDI environment
18.   The tax system  clearly affects the environment for FDI.  All Cambodia's
regional competitors offer broadly similar tax systems, except Malaysia, which only
offers a concessionary tax rate to approved investors, rather than the tax holiday offered
by the other three. Despite these similarities, the METRs implied by statutory rates
and provisions in Cambodia, the Philippines and Thailand - at 35, 38 and 37 per cent
respectively - are higher than Singapore at 31 per cent and significantly higher than
Malaysia's 23 per cent (See Table 6). This general superiority reflects, in the first
instance, Thailand, Singapore and Malaysia's lack of a minimum tax and lower customs
duty on capital imports and, in the second instance, the very generous initial investment
allowances offered by both Singapore and Malaysia. Finally, Malaysia's low personal
withholding tax on interest and dividend income has an impact.
Table 6:     Marginal effective tax rates using standard income tax provisions
without minimum tax (%)
Condition         Cabodiab       Thailand     Singapore      Malaysia    Philippines
With Interest Deductibility  35             37            31            23           38
Adjust for Customs Duty      18             26            31            17           32
Concessions
Adjust for Tax Holiday        9              7            14            14           24
Adjust for Depreciation Carry  NA           NA             6           NA           NA
Forward
After Tax Holiday
With lower 9% rate           32            NA            NA            NA           NA
Plus zero tax on reinvested  27             NA           NA            NA           NA
profits              L                         .
19.   Whilst the data indicates that through the provision of tax holidays, Cambodia
maintains broad equivalency with most of its rivals, excepting Singapore, which allows
investors to carry depreciation deductions until the end of the tax holiday. However, it
is clear that this broad equivalency is not necessarily available as the minimum tax
provision reduces any advantage.  Further it must be questioned as to whether a real
tax holiday would provide Cambodia any real advantage in the market place, as it
remains to be proved that the provision of a significantly lower METRs brings forward
a significantly higher level of investment.



64
20.    Does  the  initial provision  of very  low  effective  tax  rates  to  investors
compensated them for the disadvantages inherent in an investment in Cambodia and,
thus, is there any real benefit accruing to Cambodia through the provision of this
incentive? Further, is it likely that even more favourable incentives would tip the
scale? The answer to both questions must be - "No" as it is simply not possible to
compensate investors, in the long term, for inherent cost disadvantages through the
provision of tax based incentives. If investors can make a profit, commensurate with
the risk, they will invest and pay reasonable levels of taxes on any profits earned. If
investors cannot make an assured long term profit, they are most unlikely to invest.
Why  is the  investor most unlikely  to  invest?   Because, government investment
incentives are, implicitly or explicitly, short term in nature, whereas the problems are
long term. Investment incentives, no matter what the statutory provisions, are always
regarded by investors as implicitly short term in nature because they may be withdrawn
at any moment, at the discretion of the government. It would be a very brave investor
who would base long term investment returns on the continued provision, or value, of
investment incentives.
Table 7:       Financial Rates and Inflation
Cambodia    Thailand.   Singapore.    Malaysia.   Philippines
Debt: Equity             50 :50      50: 50     50: 50      50: 50      50: 50
Returns6
Real Interest         13.00%      7.25%       3.75%       5.00%      5.50%
Inflation              5.00%      1.00%       1.25%      2.25%       5.50%
Nominal Interest      18.00%      8.25%       5.00%       7.25%      11.0%
Standardised          18.00%     14.25%      14.50%      15.50%     18.50%
Nominal Interest
Inflation7               5.00%       1.00%       1.25%      2.25%       5.50%
D.    Summary of major findings
21.    Cambodia's tax system imposes a relatively high burden on investment income
when compared to its regional competitors. At a minimum of 35 per cent per cent, its
marginal effective tax rate is some 50 per cent higher than the 23 per cent imposed by
the Malaysian tax system. This high rate is driven by two primary factors - the
relatively high level of import duties imposed on capital items and the one per cent
minimum tax. Such a level does not preclude Cambodia from attracting investors but it
does mean that, at the margin, the after tax return available to investors in Cambodia's
6 All returns, other than for Cambodia, represent standardised returns adjusted for differences in taxation
and inflation between Cambodia and the other country.
7 Sources: Cambodia - Prime Lending Rate of 18%. Rest from FEER - Dec 23, 1999 except Thailand
adjusted from -0.8 % to + 1. 0 %



65
regional competitors will be more attractive. Thus the current statutory tax system
constrains Cambodia's ability to attract the marginal investments and, in consequence,
restricts it from reaching the potential inherent in its comparative advantage.
22.   In an attempt to ameliorate the effect of the high tax system on investment
income and to match its rivals, Cambodia has provided a set of investment incentives.
This system is reliant on tax holidays and duty exemptions and concessions which have
the potential, provided the minimum tax is not effective, to reduce the marginal
effective tax rate to 9 per cent, a rate which is competitive when compared to the
incentive rate of some 14 to 24 per cent offered by its regional rivals Malaysia and the
Philippines.
23.   Investment decisions are governed by risks and opportunities for profit and are
finally determined by expectations of after tax profits which are commensurate with the
assessed risks. Without opportunities for profit, investment will not come to a country
regardless of how low the tax burden; with opportunities for profit, investors, foreign
as well as domestic, will, of course, welcome low taxes but will not be deterred by a
moderate tax burden. Thus, the Cambodian statutory tax system, which is characterised
by very high rates, will deter an unknown number of potential investments.
24.   The proposed SAC program would all lower the marginal effective tax rate
(METR) of the tax system without incentives. As previously noted, the tax system in
Cambodia displays one of the highest METRs amongst its competitors. Its current
minimum rate of from infinity for a loss making firm paying minimum tax to a minimum
of 35 per cent for any typical taxpayer whose profit margin exceeds five per cent, places
it marginally better than the Philippines at 38 per cent but significantly higher than
Malaysia at 23 per cent. Eliminating the minimum one per cent tax on turnover would
see the METR for Cambodia drop to a certain 35 per percent for all corporate taxpayers
(See Table 8). Whilst the lowering of import duties on capital goods to, say, 7.5 per cent,
would see the METR settle at 28 per cent. This rate is very competitive with basic
METRs for all ASEAN competitors and is itself an attractive position. However, the
provision of initial and accelerated investment allowances, which effect only the timing
of tax receipts, would lower the METR even further to only 23 per cent, a rate which is
broadly equivalent to the tax concession rate provided as an investment incentive to
promoted firms in Malaysia. Taxpayers who choose the three year tax holiday would see
their average METR fall to 20 per cent. Such a rate should see most taxpayers largely
indifferent to the initial and accelerated investment allowances provided by the Law on
Taxation and the tax holiday provided by the Law on Investment.
25.   The adoption of these recommendations would place Cambodia's taxation
system in a very competitive position vis a vis Malaysia and the Philippines, as the
marginal effective tax rate, at 23 per cent, would be at least as favourable, whilst
qualification would be automatic for all investors, as opposed to the application and
approval procedures required in both Malaysia and the Philippines.



66
Table 8:          Marginal effective tax rates in applying recommendations
Tax Situation                  %
Current Basic Rate                         38 -
Eliminate Mininum Tax                          35
Plus Lower Duty on Capital Goods               28
Plus Initial and Accelerated                   23
Investment AUowances
Or 3 year Tax Holiday               [          20






67
Annex VI
STATISTICAL TABLES






68
Cambodia at a glance                                                                 2/7/00
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia &     Low.   r
Cambodia    Pacific  income        Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       10.7     1,817     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At/as method., US$)                   280       990       520
GNP (Atlas method, tUSs billions;                      3.0     1,802     1.844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         2.6       1.2       17                       /
Labor force (%)                                        2.6       1.6       1.9     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  36
Urban population (% oftota/population)                 21        35        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       54        69        63
Infant mortality (per r,000 live births)              103        37        69
Child malnutnition (% of children under 5)             38         20        ..               Access to safe water
Access to sate water (% of population)                 13         77        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     .        15       32
Gross pnmary enrolinment (% of school-age population)  110       117       106                  Cambodia
Male                                                119       119       113                   Low-income group
Female                                              100       118       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1988      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..       .        3.1       2.9
Gross domestic investment/GOP                          9,4      19.0      15.0                     Trade
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                      .Z6       31.8      34.1
Gross domestc savings/GDP                              1 9      10.3       5.5
Gross national savings/GDP                     .                12.2       6.7
Current account balantce/GDP                                    - . 8     -8.3 3                   /e
Interest payments/GOP                                            0 1       0.2      Domestic                    Investment
Tota/ debt/GOP                                                  68.9      770      Savings
Total debt service/exports                                       l.0       1.3
Present value of debt/GDP                                       52.4
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       .      163.1
Indebtedness
1978-88  198898    1997       1998   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ,,      49       1.0       1.0                             Camboda
GNP per capita                                  .                  .         .                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         .._*
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988      1997      1998      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(I% of GDP)
Agriculture                                     .     62.4      50.7      50.675
Industry                                       ..    13.8       14.8      14.8     4
Manufactunng                                 ..      7.1       5.8       6.2     2
Services                                              23.9      34.5      34.6     2
Private consumption                            ..    92.7       80.7      85.8           93   94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                 ..      5.4       9.0       8.7                    GDI    - GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    10.1       40.3      43.6
1978488  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)                  1
Agriculture                                    ..      2.4       1.3       0.4    2
Industry                                        .      8.5      -2.8       1.1
Manufacturing                                ..      7.1       7.6       6.4
Servires                                       ..      6.5       2.8       1.6
Prvate consumption
General government consumption                 ..       ..        ..        ..    
Gross domestic investment                                                                93   94       95   96   97   98
Imports of goods and services                                                               -Exports           Imports
Gross national product
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



69
Cambodia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988       1997       1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices 
(% change)                                                                                15cT
Consumer prices                                     ..       ..        8.0       14.8    is t
Implicit GDP deflator                              ..    76.6          9.2      17.0                  \
Government finance                                                                         o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                93    94    95    96    97    99
Current revenue                                     ..      3.9        9.7       8.7      -50 -
Current budget balance                             ..    -1.0          0.6       -0.3                    GDP deflator   i  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                    -1.7       -4.3       -56 8;-
TRADE                                                                                                    _         _
1978     1988        1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions) 
Total exports (fob)                                          ..        786       823      1 600_
Rubber                                            .         .         23          2     1i400
Logs and sawn timber                                                 128        88      1.200I
Manufactures                                               ..        279       392      1to0o                    *l
Total imports (af)                                                   1,143     1,138       aso _
Food                                                        ..400-
Fuel and energy                                                                           200
Capital goods                                                                               9. .,
92   93   94   99F  96   97  59
Export price index (1995=100)                                ..         92        88
Import price index (1995=100)                       .                   97        90                   E Exports     *IImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                    ..         95        98    _                                              I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS miiiions)  1978  1988  1997  1998    Current account balance to GOP j%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                         977        978 o
Imports of goods and services                                        1,245     1,251       42
Resource balance                                                      27         23
Net income                                                    ..       -47       -48       .2
Net current transfers                                        ..        105        61        10
Current account balance                                       ..     -209       -260      -12
-14 
Financing items (net)                               .                 299        365      . a
Changes in net reserves                            ..                  -90      -105          -                                        |
Memo:                                                                                                                                  a
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)              .        .
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                    . .            2,946.3   3,744.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988       1997       1998    i
(US$ millions)                                                                             Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                1       40       2,129     2,210
IBRD                                              0        0          0          0                         3 : 42B 157               l
IDA                                               0        0        132        157                              B 17  67
Total debt service                                  0         0         10        13                                      D:           |
leRD                                             0         0          0          0
IDA                                              0         0           1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  ..        ..       176          -
Official creditors                               0         0         39         55
Private creditors                                0         0          -3        -3
Foreign direct investment                         ..
Portfolio equity                                  -        .                                     E: 1,822
World Bank programr
Commitments                                      0         0         57         31      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbutsements                                    0         0         30         19    I  - IDA     0 - Other mutt(ateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                             0         0          0          0      C - IMF                        G - Short-terrm
Net flows                                         0        0         30         19    i                                              I
Interest payments                                0         0           1         1
Net transfers                                    0         0         30         18
Development Economics                                                                                                           217/00



70
Table 1. Cambodia: Selected Economic Indicators, 1995-1999
Nominal GDP (1998)        S 2,871 million
Population (1998 est.)    11.3 million
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999
Proj.
(Percent change; unless otherwise indicated)
Real GDP                                              7.6      7.0       1.0      1.0      4.5
GDP deflator                                          9.1      7.1       9.2     17.0      6.2
Consumer prices (final quarter-basis)                 3.5      9.0       9.1     12.6      5.0
Money and credit
Broad money (incl. foreign currency dep)         43.6     40.4      16.6     15.7      18.4
of which: riels in circulation                42.3      19.5     18.8     43.0       3.0
Net credit to Govemment 1/                        1.1      -3.1     -8.1     11.7      -4.4
Velocity ofmoney 2/                              11.1       9.1      8.6      8.8       8.3
(In percent of GDP)
Government budget
Revenue (incl. capital revenue)                   8.9       9.1      9.7      8.7      11.2
of which: tax revenue                          6.2      6.5       6.6      6.3       8.0
non-tax revenue                       2.6       2.1      3.0      2.1       3.0
Expenditure                                      16.7      16.3     14.0     14.8      14.5
Current expenditure (cash basis)                9.6      9.9       9.0      9.0       9.5
Capital expenditure                             7.1       6.4      5.0      5.8       5.0
Current budget balance (cash basis)               -0.7     -0.8      0.7     -0.3       1.7
Overall budget balance (cash basis)               -7.7     -7.2     -4.3     -5.7      -3.3
Foreign financing                                 7.8       8.2      4.9      4.7       3.9
Domestic financing                               -0.1      -1.0     -0.6      1.0      -0.6
Domestic investment                                  21.8     25.9      19.0     15.0     20.0
Govemment investment 3/                           7.1       6.0      5.0      4.0       5.0
Non govemment investment                          14.7     19.9     14.0      11.0     15.0
National saving                                       5.0      11.3     12.2      6.7       7.2
Govemment saving                                  -0.8     -1.2      0.6     -0.3       1.6
Non govemment saving                              5.8      12.5     11.6      7.0       5.6
In millions of U.S. dollars; unless otherwise indicated)
Balance of payments
Exports                                           919      805      977       978      994
Imports                                          1432     1308      1245     1251     1411
Current account (including off. transfers)       -166     -193       -44      -67      -214
(In percent of GDP)                          -16.8    -14.6      -6.8     -8.3    -12.8
Capital account                                   245      263       134      172      256
Overall balance                                    79       70        90      105       42
Gross official reserves                               182      234      262       390      428
(In months of imports ofg & s)                    1.8      2.9      3.1       4.2      3.4
(In percent of broad money)                      70.8     69.5     85.1    119.9    112.6
Net official reserves                                 110      164      197       323      357
Debt service                                            6       10        10       13      147
(In percent of dom. exports of g&s)               0.7       1.2      1.0       1.3     14.4
Memorandum items:
Nominal GDP (in billions ofriels)               7.200    8.251    9,100   10,750   11,930
(in millions of U.S. dollars)     2,938    3,144    3,097    2,867    3,152
Exchange rates (riel per dollar, end-of-period)  2,526    2,713    3,452    3,770    3,895
Period-average                  2451.0   2624.0   2946.3   3744.0   3784.5
Source: Data provided by the Cambodian authorities, and staff estimates and projections.
I/ Contributions to 12-month percent change of broad money.
2/ Ratio of nominal GDP to average stock of broad money.
3/ Includes extemally financed technical assistance for implementation of capital projects.



71
Table 2. Cambodia: Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework, 1997-2002
(Percent of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)
1997        1998          1999          2000        2001        2002
Est.                    Projections
BASE CASE SCENARIO
Real Sector
Real GDP (percent change)                       1.0         1.0           4.5           5.5         6.0          6.0
CPI Inflation (final quarter basis)             9.1        12.6           5.0           5.0         4.0          4.0
Per capita GDP (U'S. dollars)                  282          268          288           308         333          361
National saving                                12.2         6.7           7.2           7.3         8.9         10.0
Ofwhich: Govemment saving                      0.6        -0.3           1.6           1.0         1.1          2.0
Gross investment                               19.0        15.0          20.0          21.0        21.7         22.4
Fiscal Sector
Revenue(excl. curr.grants, but incl. cap.rev.)  9.7         8.7          11.2          11.4        12.0         13.2
o/w: tax revenue                               6.6         6.3           8.0           8.4         8.8          9.7
o/w: nontax revenue                            3.0         2.1           3.0           2.7         2.9          3.2
Expenditure                                    14.0        14.8          14.5          15.7        17.6         18.5
Current                                       9.0          9.0          9.5           9.7         10.8        11.2
Capital                                       5.0          5.8          5.0           5.9         6.8          7.3
Overall balance                                -4.3        -5.7          -3.3          -4.4        -5.7         -5.3
Current balance                                 0.7        -0.3           1.7           1.7         1.2          2.0
Monetary Sector
Broad money (percent change)                   16.6        15.7          18.4          16.1        13.2         13.2
Velocity (GDP/M2)                               8.6         8.8           8.3           7.8         7.6          7.4
External Sector
Current account balance (excl. transfers)      -6.8        -8.3         -12.8         -13.7       -12.8        -12.5
Overall balance                                -2.9        -3.7          -1.3          -1.9        -1.9         -2.2
Financing gap                              ...          ...             189.6         211.0       108.4        171.4
Gross offical reserves (millions of US$)       262          390          428           486          546         624
(in months of imports)                       3.1          4.2           3.4           3.5         3.6          3.7
Extemal debt                                    69           77            74           74           72          71
Debt service ratio 2/                           1.0         1.3          14.4          14.3         7.5         10.4
Sources: Data provided by Cambodian authorities; and staff estimates and projections.
1/ Includes estimates for unrecorded forestry exports. Over the medium term, exports are projected to retum to a sustainable level
with the elimination of illegal timber exports.
2! In percent of domestic exports of goods and services.



72
Table 3. Cambodia: External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1999-2002
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
2000        2001        2002          2000-002
Proj       Proj.        Proj.           Total
Financing requirements                                      1866         598          691            3,155
Current account deficit (excl. official transfers)         471         486          521            1,478
Amortization                                    130          39           78             247
Changes in arrears (-:increase)                1200           0            0            1,200
Changes in gross reserves (+:increase)           65          73           92             230
Disbursements from existing commitments                      165          41           29              235
Grants                                          109           0            0              109
Medium- and long-term loans                      56          41           29              126
Bilateral creditors                  2           1            1               4
Multirateral creditors              54          40          28              122
Disbursements from new commitments                           154         299          333              786
Grants                                          109         224          231              564
Medium- and long-term loans                      45          75          102              222
Bilateral creditors                  7          20          33               60
Multirateral creditors              38          55          69              162
Foreign direct investment                                    130          140         150              420
Short-term tlows and errors & omissions                        0           0            0              -
Initial financing gap                                       1418         118          179            1,715
Debt relief a/                                 1307          36           36            1,378
IMF disbursements                                23          23           23               69
Residual financing gap                                        88          59          120              267
Memorandum items:
Current acct. excl. official transfers (In % of GDP)         13.7        12.8        12.5
Gross official reserves (US$ million)                        486          546         624                 ...
In months of imports of goods and services        4           4            4                 ...
Net intemational reserves (US$ million)                      398         446          514                 ...
Sources: Data provided by the Cambodian authorities, donors, and staffestimates and projections.
a/ Assuming full use of the traditional debt-relief mechanism through a hypothetical stock-of-debt operation on Naples terms on pre-cutoff-date
debt at end-2000 to all official bilalateral creditors (including Russia, the United States, and the non-Paris Club creditors.)



TABLE 4: STATEMENT OF IDA'S COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
(Operations Portfolio)
(as of December 31,1999)
Last PSR                                                                       Difference Between
Board Date   Active                                           Supervision Rating b/                                                               Expected and Actual
Fiscal Year   Projects                                   Development Implementation                Original Amount in US$ Millions                  Disbursements a/
Objectives      Progress    IBRD          IDA           Cancel        Undisb.       Orig.        Frm Rev'd
1995          P p037088   KH-SocialFund                        HS          H-IS             0          20.0            0                0.09          1.53             0
1995          P034755     Technical Assistance                 S             tJ             0          17.0            0                2.66          3.53              0
1996         P004032      Phnom Penh Power Rehab.              S             S              0          40.0            0                2.55          7.37             0
1997         P004033      Agri. Product Implementation         S             S              0          27.0            0               24.29         15.67           2.85
1997          P004034     KH-Disease Control & flealth         S             S              0          30.0            0               19.75         11.04              0
1998         P045629      Urban Water Supply                   S             S              0          31.0            0               26.96         12.81             0
1999          P058841     KH Northeast Village                 S             S              0          5.0             0                4.69          0.87             0
1999          P004030     KH-RD Rehabilitation                 S             S              0          45.3            0               43.75          2.38             0
1999         P050601      KH-Social Fund 11                    S             S              0          25.0           0                22.92          1.65             0
2000          P059971      KM-Education Quality Improv.     -     __     _                  0 _         5.0            0        .      _ 5.08           0              0



74
Table 5: SELECTED INDICATORS OF PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Indicator                                      1996         1997         1998         1999      2000 f
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects under implementationa          5            7            6            9           10
Average implementation period (years)b          1.40        1.83         2.13         2.16         2.42
Percent of problem projects".
by number                                0.00         0.00         0.00        11.11        10.00
by amount                                0.00         0.00         0.00         7.06         6.79
Percent of projects at riska d
by number                                0.00         0.00        16.67         0.00        10.00
by amount                                0.00         0.00        24.19         0.00         6.79
Disbursement ratio (%)'                       13.50        20.37        27.35        21.11         6.80
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)                    no           no           no           no         Yes
Supervision resources (total US$)           1,512.36      600.18       385.19       497.26       335.04
Average Supervision (US$/project)            302.47        85.74        64.20        55.25        33.50
MIemorandum item                                  Since FY80     Last five FYs
Projects evaluated by OED
by number                                              2               2
by amount (US$ millions)                          102.70          102.70
Percent rated U or HU
by number                                           0.00            0.00
by amount                                           0.00            0.00
a.  As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY)
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c.  Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress
(IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e.  Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
beginning of the year: investment projects only.
f.  As of December 31, 1999.



75
Table 6: BANK GROUP PROGRAM SUMMARY
(a) Proposed IDA Base Case Lending Program, FYOO-03
FY                 Project                 Smillion     Strategic Rewards    Implementation Risks
equivalent       (H/M/L)
00     Education Quality Improvement LIL         5.0            H                     M
Biodiversitv & Protected Areas LIL       5.0             M                    H
Forestry Policy LIL                      5.0             H                    M
Structural Adjustment Credit            30.0             H                    H
Subtotal                            45.0
01     Economic Capacity-Building                3.0            M                     M
Land Management LIL                      5.0             H                    M
Health Sector Support Operation         30.0             H                    M
Rural Electrification & Transmission    40.0            M                     M
Subtotal                            78.0
02     Legal Reform Operation                    5.0            H                     M
Public Sector Reform Operation          40.0             H                    H
Rural and Provincial Infrastructure     40.0             H                    M
Higher Education & Leadership Dev.      12.0             H                    M
Subtotal                            97.0             H                    H
03     Basic EducationiQuality Improvement      20.0            H                     L
Rural Development Operation             25.0             H                    M
Cultural Heritage LIL                    5.0             M                    M
Subtotal                            50.0
Total base case*(maximum)             $270.0



76
(b) Cambodia - IFC and MIGA Program, FY96-00
Past                              Current
Category                     1996         1997          1998         1999         2000
IFC approvals (US$m)a                    0.00          5.25        21.30          0.00
Sector (%)
0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Hotels & Tourism                         0.00        100.00         0.00          0.00
Infrastructure                           0.00          0.00       100.00          0.00
TOTAL                                100.00       100.00        100.00       100.00
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                0.00       100.00        70.40          0.00
Equity                               0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Quasi-Equity                         0.00         0.00        20.00          0.00
Other                                0.00         0.00         9.60          0.00
TOTAL                                   100.00       100.00       100.00        100.00
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                    0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
MIGA commitments (US$m)                   0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
a) Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



I



IBRD 28781
102'                                               104'                                               106'
'N    - LAO PEOPLE'S
THAILAND                                                                DEMOCRATIC R.FUBLIC   )
i.'"                       -   '        
Phnom Thbeng                          T,
Meanchey                          .-                           .
    'Sisophon                     ',,Siem  Reap                                        Trengi       - .     .                mph.tS-
X       a                .   X                                                                                                t~~0.  ~
\ 1.tn                                                              -                       0   {
Krong Kohrs$''~'''^                            >,'O '-,               NHoonT onle
l i 'R5 9- <,<aa~~~ Kompong--'
-- 12' \ ''C'XrxsY> CN:3                                                 hom-  2
KroKng Koh   . K< ,~                Kampong    ,'    Ox ,                yVe      n7
.   S A T'naug:                                          S                   VIETNAM
Kompong
OKampOt-t' ,gf- 2,Cham
S;ho nouKmkville              po 
-10e         CAM\BODIA                                                                           1_jD                               HN
.r,g~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~nrap -, -D~
VIETNAMHIN
' - gEOPLE)
_r-ROADS                                                                                           S      7EM. REb\
RAILROADS                                                                                    ,      THLND' \
RIVERS                                                                                                     _t
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                     sS-      :. ~ 
- --  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                          ,,.,,i',
Sihonoukyill~~~~I.                                                          .'-            .S,
.N     MLASIR.
0     2B    75    100                                     hio map wa pepored by th Map                         MA',  '., A
t  t  t                               ~~~~~~~~~~Desioen (nofa The Wrid Bank.., ._J
KILOMETERS                                           The hossdorieo, colors, denominations          ;     -aIGPR               -
rand any other infomto sha   .n                .         ,
rhe World Bank Grasp, any jud,ament                     .-_ 
on the legal status of onyterrhory, or                I NC 0  N E S I A
102 '                                              104                   amy endorsemnent or acceptonce of such.  
5/5/1997 IwNsT O4cObNsIu



