Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3323 KH
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 7, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3323 KH 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 2000, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the Borrower)  and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
February 5, 2000 (hereinafter called the Letter), describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's 
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in three  tranches, including one floating tranche, as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Association shall have the right to allocate and apply the amount so received 
in any 
manner and for such purposes under the Development Credit Agreement as 
the 
Association shall in its sole discretion determine."
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions"; 
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07; and
(h)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
"radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
"First Tranche" means the amount of the Credit referred to in Section 
2.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means a twelve month period beginning January 1 in 
any calendar year and ending December 31 in the same calendar year, and the term 
"Fiscal Years" means, collectively, more than one Fiscal Year; 
(d)
"Floating Tranche" means the amount of the Credit referred to in Section 
2.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(e)
"NBC" means the National Bank of Cambodia, the Borrower’s Central Bank, 
or any successor thereto; and 
(f)
"Second Tranche" means the amount of the Credit referred to in Section 
2.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
Page  3
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty one million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR21,900,000) in three tranches as follows:  
(a) 
a first tranche in an amount equivalent to seven million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR7,300,000) (the First Tranche);  
(b) 
a second tranche in an amount equivalent to eleven million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR11,000,000) (the Second Tranche); and  
(c) 
a floating tranche in an amount equivalent to three million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR3,600,000) (the Floating Tranche). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in NBC, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals of the proceeds of the Second Tranche shall be made from 
the Credit Account unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to 
the Association: 
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;  
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and  
(iii)
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association is not so satisfied, the Association may give notice 
to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to 
the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals of the Floating Tranche shall be made from the Credit 
Account unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;  
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and  
Page  4
(iii)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the 
Association is not so satisfied, the Association may give notice 
to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to 
the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1, 2010 and ending November 1, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
Page  5
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices consistently applied, records and accounts reflecting movements on the 
Deposit Account. 
(b)
have the records and accounts for the Deposit Account for each fiscal 
year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and in accordance 
with internationally acceptable auditing standards.  
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than three months after the end of each such year, an opinion on such records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister in charge of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
92nd Street
Sangkat Wat Phnom, Khan Daun Penh
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Facsimile:
855 23 427798
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
By /s/ Roland Eng
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Julian Schweitzer
Regional Vice President
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
Page  7
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party; 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) 
and (e) of this Agreement
Part A:
Conditions for the release of the Second Tranche 
1.
The Borrower has submitted for adoption by the National Assembly an amendment to 
Article 14 of the Law on Investment, and introduced related measures, acceptable to 
the Association and in form and substance consistent with paragraph 8 of the Letter, 
with a view to rationalizing the incentive regime inherent in the Law on Investment 
and eliminating distortions thereunder. 
2.
The Borrower has re-established a system of pre-shipment inspection of imports, 
on terms and conditions which shall be acceptable to the Association, and in 
accordance with the policies and principles laid down in paragraph 11 of the Letter. 
3.
The Borrower has satisfied the Association that it has maintained its quarterly 
publication on forest crime monitoring and that such publication has been made 
regularly available to the public, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 13 
of the Letter. 
4.
The Borrower has completed a forestry concession contract review and taken 
actions based on the outcome of the review, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 14 of the Letter.
5.
The Borrower has, following full consultations with stakeholders, and in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 15 of the Letter, submitted for adoption 
Page  8
by the National Assembly a draft law revising the Forest Law, acceptable to the 
Association, and establishing clear responsibility for forest management and 
administration, and providing for enforcement authority, inter-sectoral oversight and 
public accountability.
6.
The Borrower has submitted to the Association satisfactory evidence in terms of 
the formula specified in paragraph 19 of the Letter, to show that: (a) the ratio of 
actual disbursements of non-wage operating expenditures for the health, education, 
agriculture and rural development sectors combined during FY 2000 have been not less 
than the corresponding ratio for the remaining sectors combined; and (b) actual 
disbursements for the Accelerated District Development (ADD) program during the same 
period have been not less than provided in the corresponding budget allocation.  
7.
The Borrower has presented to the Association a draft FY 2001 budget, acceptable 
to the Association, including budget allocations for, and contents of, the Priority 
Action Program (PAP) and the ADD, and showing enhanced allocations for health, 
education, agriculture and rural development sectors in terms of share of total 
current expenditures as compared with FY 2000 budget. 
8.
The Borrower has, following full consultations with stakeholders, and in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 34 of the Letter, (a) conducted surveys on 
governance and corruption, and, on the basis thereof, prepared a diagnosis and 
formulated a national action plan acceptable to the Association; (b) disseminated the 
findings of the surveys and details of the national action plan; and (c) begun 
implementation of the national action plan.
Part B:
Conditions for the Release of the Floating Tranche
The Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 28 of the 
Letter: (a) achieved progress satisfactory to the Association in the implementation of 
the pilot phase of the demobilization and reintegration program; (b) in full 
consultation with stakeholders, conducted an interim review of the progress of the 
program, and (c) based on the results thereof, developed a proposal, acceptable to the 
Association, for the demobilization and reintegration program.
