 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14839

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/30/2015

               Country: Egypt, Arab Republic of
             Project ID: P095392                                                   Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Eg-natural Gas               Project Costs (US$M):                 153.70              153.70
                         Connections Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     75.0               73.45
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                 01/24/2008
                                                             Closing Date:              10/31/2013          10/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Oil and gas (100%)
          Theme(s):        Urban services and housing for the poor (75%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery
                           (25%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:      ICR Review                       Group:
                                             Coordinator:
Fernando Manibog           Ramachandra Jammi Christopher David                IEGPS1
                                             Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective (PDO) is "to (i) contribute to Government of Egypt (GOE)'s program of switching
consumption of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) for natural gas through investment in new connections; and (ii) exploit
the scale economies in transportation of natural gas relative to LPG in very densely populated areas, thereby reducing
the cost of gas provision." (Schedule 1, page 5, Loan Agreement dated February 13, 2008)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

The loan beneficiary was the Egypt Natural Gas Holding Company (EGAS), the state enterprise responsible for
natural gas development in Egypt. The project was implemented by Town Gas, the local distribution company with
which EGAS has concession arrangements to construct, operate and maintain the gas networks. (ICR, para 15, page
4)

The project had the following components (note that only the total project cost is provided in Annex A of the ICR; no
separate costs are provided per component, on an appraisal versus actual basis):

Component I. Gas Distribution and Connection (US$ 139.1 million)
This component included:
  expansion of the gas distribution system
  connection of about 300,000 new customers, including the connection of new appliances and conversion of
     existing appliances for the safe use of natural gas in the customer's households
  transport of gas to housing areas from the points of delivery of the transmission network
  interconnection and pressure control to deliver gas to each individual house
Component II. Gas Transmission (US$ 14.6 million)
This component included the extension of the existing gas transmission system by adding 37 km of pipelines and 4
pressure reduction stations (PRSs) in the Cairo area, in order to provide additional supply points and improve supply
reliability for the expanded distribution network.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

The total actual project total cost was US$ 153.7 million. The Bank financed US$73.45 million--almost the same
amount as planned at appraisal (US$75 million)--and the rest was financed by the Borrower. Loan effectiveness was
delayed by 13 months due to the Parliamentary ratification that was required for (i) the subsidiary agreement between
the Government and EGAS and (ii) the issuance of the posterior legal opinion. Once the project got started, the actual
disbursement rate was faster than the originally estimated rate at project approval (for example, it took only 6 months
in 2010 to disburse US$47 million). A mid-term review was conducted on September 28, 2010. The project closing
date was extended by one year to October 31, 2014 to enable the completion of two pressure reduction stations
amounting to 5% of the total project cost.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

At the time of approval, the project's objective was highly relevant and consistent with (i) the Country Assistance
Strategy (FYs2006-2009), which included enhancing the provision of public goods through modernized infrastructure
services, as well as (ii) the Bank's Infrastructure Plan approved by the Board in 2003, which called for more
responsiveness to client demands for infrastructure.

Currently, the project's objective remains highly relevant, as the Government intends to reach 2.4 million new
consumer connections to the natural gas network during the three-year period of 2016-2018. The objective is aligned
with the Bank-Egypt Country Partnership Framework (2015-2019).

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

The Results Framework in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was adequate and straightforward, in line with the
gas infrastructure expansion nature of the project. The project's activities -- expanding gas transmission and
distribution, adding pressure reduction stations, and connecting consumers -- are directly and causally linked to
exploiting economies of scale and thus reducing costs of supply as the switch is made from higher-cost LPG toward
natural gas use. There was a minor shortcoming, however, by not reflecting "economies of scale" and corresponding
indicator(s).

The institutional design was appropriate: EGAS, as the owner of all the assets of Egypt's gas sector, served as the
beneficiary of World Bank loan, while Town Gas as the relevant local distribution company implemented the project
under governing concession arrangements developed in the late-1990s. To ensure adequate control by EGAS over
the implementation of project activities by Town Gas, a contract was signed between the two delineating their
respective responsibilities; EGAS also retained a performance guarantee tied to Town Gas connecting an agreed
number of consumers to the network. Town Gas established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) specifically for the
project;


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Substantial

The project's core objective -- to reduce the cost of gas provision by contributing to the Government's program of
investing in new connections for switching from LPG to natural gas -- was substantially achieved.

Outputs
    The number of natural gas connections achieved at project closing in the Greater Cairo Area was 333,000
     connections, exceeding the original target of 300,000 connections by 11%.

    The reduction in LPG consumption was also higher than originally targeted by 11%, achieving a reduction of
     132,118 tons/year compared to the 119,025 tons/year target.

    Direct project beneficiaries (1,484,000) at closing were also higher than targeted (1,350,000) at project approval.

    The targeted level of 50 female beneficiaries was achieved.

Outcomes

    The targeted reduction in Government subsidies for LPG was significantly exceeded (144%), from the original
     US$67.5 million/year at approval to US$97.1 million/year at project closing.

    With supervision the environment department of EGAS, the institutional capacity of Town Gas was strengthened
     in terms of implementing the Environmental Management Plan and raising awareness of environmental good
     practices. Moreover, its capacity was also improved in the area of international competitive bidding and managing
     international contracts, which facilitated project implementation.


5. Efficiency:

Substantial

Economic Analysis
The project's main economic benefit is the displacement of higher-cost LPG fuel for the 330,000 households
connected. Ancillary benefits include security of supply and convenienceThe following assumptions were used in the
economic analysis at project closure: (i) the LPG price was 29.6% higher than the level of 10.9 US$/mmbtu (million
British thermal units) used at project preparation, in line with price movements in crude oil prices; (ii) the opportunity
cost of natural gas is the domestic production cost of gas estimated at 3.65 US$/per mmbtu; (iii) the discount rate of is
10%; and (iv) the time horizon is 20 years. The ERR at appraisal was 14.5 % while the ICR estimate was higher at
25.6 %. The EIRR would be actually higher, because the 25.6 % rate does not include the benefits from connecting
50 industrial users (that shifted to natural gas from diesel) and 7,200 vehicles (that switched to natural gas from using
gasoline). The project's economic justification is therefore robust even when only the household connections are
considered.

Implementation Efficiency
There was some relatively minor delay in implementing two of the pressure reduction stations (PRSs) at New Cairo
City (NCC) and El Haram (accounting for about 5% of project costs). This resulted from the unexpected demand from
the local authorities for EGAS to pay a significant land fee, even though this contradicted a Presidential Decree that
public land should be provided free of charge for facilities that benefit the general public. The political crisis of
February 2011 added more delay due to frequent changes in the top management of both EGAS and the Ministry of
Petroleum (MOP). It was only in August 2013 when EGAS management stabilized and was able to make a payment
for the land and subsequently seek reimbursement from the Ministry of Finance. This issue was resolved eventually
and both PRSs were constructed and installed. However, this process required an extension of the project closing
date from October 31, 2013 to October 31, 2014.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                     14.5%                                    100%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                     25.6%                                    100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
The project was part of a larger Government program to expand household gas connections in the Greater Cairo Area
and elsewhere in the country. The relevance of the project's objective is high and the relevance of its design is
substantial. The efficacy in achieving the objective is substantial. Efficiency is substantial, although there was some
relatively minor delay of one year in implementing two of the four pressure reduction stations (5% of total project
costs) due to land payment issues. The overall project outcome rating is satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Town Gas will operate and maintain the project assets, in line with other EGAS investments with any local distribution
company per their respective concession agreements. Town Gas has supplied natural gas to all connected
households without any interruption since the first connections were made in 2009 and 2010. The Government
continues to be highly committed to the goal of replacing LPG consumption with natural gas. Consequently, in July
2014, the Bank's Board approved a loan of US$ 500 million loan with the objective of connecting 1.5 million
households in 11 Egyptian Governorates to the natural gas network. Implementation arrangements are similar for the
new loan: EGAS was the loan beneficiary but Town Gas and Egypt Gas (another local distribution company) would
implement the project's activities. This would enable both entities to benefit directly from the learning and experience
under this earlier project, and the Bank to continue providing implementation supervision.

However, the financial position of EGAS remains precarious. This significantly increases the risks to the overall
sustainability of the gas network since EGAS is the legal owner of the natural gas transmission and distribution (T&D)
network in Egypt and the entity responsible for servicing all the loans for the large gas network investments. Despite
the benefits of the Bank's continued involvement under the new project, the Bank's support is still just 60% of the
Government's overall target of 2.4 million new connections in the coming years, during which EGAS's finances could
potentially further deteriorate, as explained below. The Government and EGAS have undertaken some measures to
prevent further deterioration, such as paying outstanding bills to international petroleum companies in order to help
increase gas production and LNG exports, reducing budgetary subsidies for LPG, raising gas tariffs, and shifting
some of EGAS debt from national to external creditors in order to improve the maturity structure and servicing cost of
future EGAS debt.

The natural gas sector of Egypt has experienced substantial financial distress due to the 2011 Egyptian revolution and
the subsequent economic difficulties. As a result, the financial results for EGAS in FY2012/13 show a decline
compared to previous years. The Government and EGAS have carried out some measures to restore the financial
viability of EGAS, including raising gas tariffs, reducing budgetary subsidies for LPG by switching to natural gas, and
shifting some of EGAS debt for its future investments from national creditors to external creditors. EGAS, however,
still remains in a delicate situation. This has been worsened by the fact that it no longer exports natural gas at prices
considerably higher than domestic levels.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The ICR's brief discussion of Quality at Entry (page 13) indicated that during project identification, preparation and
appraisal, the Bank satisfactorily performed its fiduciary role by aligning the project with the Government’s
priorities, incorporating lessons learned from previous operations, focusing on poverty alleviation and social
development aspects, and properly identifying and mitigating some risks. The Bank also ensured that most
procurement packages were ready before effectiveness was declared. The ICR also indicated, however, that there
were some minor shortcomings in the PAD results framework, gaps in risk assessment, and the 13-month delay in
loan effectiveness.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

The ICR (pages 13-14) indicated that the Bank team was proactive in solving project implementation issues,
which required a complicated interaction with many stakeholders during the period of political instability. The Bank
provided the requisite skills mix and adequate budgets. The project also benefited from continuity in the TTL, task
team, and other sector specialists. The aide-memoires and management letters were timely and useful in alerting
the Government, EGAS and Town Gas to implementation problems, while providing guidance on their resolution.
A specific case in 2011-2013 that showed how the task team was persistent and proactive -- with each new
management in the Ministry of Petroleum and EGAS -- was the resolution of the public land issue for the two
PRSs in New Cairo and El Haram. While effectiveness was being delayed, the task team assisted EGAS in
moving forward with almost all bidding packages; consequently, about 60% of the loan was disbursed in only 6
months in the first half of 2010 when the disbursement conditions were met. The ICR also reports that the Bank
team provided support for safeguards compliance and financial management as needed. The ICR also indicated,
however, some minor shortcomings, such as: (i) the results framework’ outcome and intermediate indicators were
not always fully updated in each supervision report, and (ii) the aide-memoires from 2011 to 2013 were not always
filed in the World Bank filing system.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The ICR (page 14) reports that Government commitment was high throughout project preparation and
implementation, particularly from the Ministry of International Cooperation and the Ministry of Petroleum.
Consultation and coordination were regular and adequate. EGAS also provided regular and sufficient internal
funds to support project implementation in the early stages. There was, however, a delay of over a year and a half
for the relevant Ministries to make the loan effective and to meet the disbursement conditions. There was also a
lack of adequate coordination between the Government and the local authorities in providing the land for two
PRSs, although these were special circumstances given the country’s political turmoil.


   Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The ICR (page 15) reports that EGAS and Town Gas "were effective on most aspects of project management,
including financial management, procurement, reporting, and environmental management." The quality of all
construction and installation works were qualified as good and acceptable, and there were no major accidents
during implementation. All households that were connected have been supplied with natural gas with good service
that is uninterrupted and safe. The financial management system produced timely and accurate information, and
the funds flow arrangement was appropriate.

Procurement was done in accordance with Bank guidelines, and there were no major procurement issues during
implementation. Town Gas took advanced procurement actions that helped to advance project implementation.
For example, the ICR indicates that in October 2008, during the first supervision mission (and 5 months before the
effectiveness of the loan), Town Gas had already launched 6 out of the 9 international competitive bidding
packages to be financed under the loan. Despite minor delays in technical reviews of procurement documents and
payments to suppliers from EGAS and Town Gas, the procurement of the 9 ICB and 6 NCB packages reflected in
the original procurement plan had been completed late 2009.

EGAS provided support to Town Gas as needed, such as in meeting reporting requirements and submitting
Withdrawal Applications to the Bank. EGAS and Town Gas submitted the required quarterly and annual reports on
time. EGAS and Town Gas also monitored the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and
prepared quarterly reports.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The M&E design was adequate, with final and intermediate outcome indicators that were clear, measurable and easy
to monitor. For example, the main development outcome indicator is the measurement of cost reductions on gas
provision. Intermediate indicators included the number of connections, and the reduction of LPG use in the target
areas.

b. M&E Implementation:

M&E was carried out by the EGAS PIU and done effectively, as reported by the ICR (page 7). Reporting to the Bank
was regular and timely. The Bank team also reported on the final and intermediate outcome indicators in each
Implementation Status and Results Report.

c. M&E Utilization:

The quarterly and annual reports were informative and included the status of performance indicators, which facilitated
project monitoring by the Government and the Bank task team.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project triggered the following safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Cultural Property
(OPN 11.03), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The project was assigned an Environment Category A.
According to the ICR (para 32, page 7): "The project complied with Bank’s policy and procedural requirements."
During the construction activities, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was implemented "in a satisfactory
manner", including optimizing schedules to reduce construction impacts on the public; thus, construction noise, dust
and so forth were monitored and measures were taken to keep them at acceptable levels. The ICR also indicates that
"only small pieces of public land were acquired for the construction of the pressure reduction stations [and] as the land
was not occupied by factories or building, no people were affected." The ICR does not provide information related to
any issues related to cultural property.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

To help EGAS comply with international financial reporting standards (IFRS) when preparing its financial statements.
a ministerial decree was approved in 2006 that required EGAS to adopt IFRS; the auditing of EGAS by the Central
Auditing Organization was also agreed. According to the ICR (page 7): "The project complied with fiduciary covenants
during implementation. Internal control arrangements were in place, and an adequate financial management was
maintained. Project and entity audit reports were received on time, and no major issues were identified in the audit
reports."


Procurement
The procurement packages were well structured, with 9 packages for international competitive bidding (ICB) and 6
packages for national competitive bidding (NCB). (ICR, page 4). Procurement proceeded faster than planned. By end
of December 2009, the procurement of all those packages were completed. In December 2010, all procurement
activities for the project were completed, and more than 70 contracts with a total value of US$ 65 million were signed
and under execution. (ICR, page 5) Procurement of all works, goods and technical services under the project
followed the Procurement Guidelines “Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits”. Consequently, there were no major procurement issues during implementation. (ICR, page 7)

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
According to the ICR (page 11), Egypt has experienced recently an LPG supply shortage and black market prices
have increased significantly. It has become more difficult for consumers to get sufficient LPG cylinders even at higher
prices. The ICR further notes that: "During the recent political crisis, people had to strive, sometime with severe
consequences, to get LPG cylinders." The connection to piped natural gas helped households to save money and
contributed to reducing the indignity of standing in line over long hours to secure LPG cylinders, according to a Social
Impact Assessment Study (SIAS), which was finalized in April 2013 by a consulting firm..

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant           The financial position of EGAS remains
                     Outcome:                                                    precarious. This significantly increases
                                                                                 the risks to the overall sustainability of
                                                                                 the gas network since EGAS is the
                                                                                 legal owner of the natural gas
                                                                                 transmission and distribution network in
                                                                                 Egypt and the entity responsible for
                                                                                 servicing all the loans for the large gas
                                                                                 network investments. EGAS's finances
                                                                                 could potentially further deteriorate
                                                                                 unless appropriate measures are
                                                                                 implemented.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons are paraphrased from the ICR (page 16):

Implementing a project that mainly addresses the deployment of physical investments could have the advantage
of being less dependent on the political economy of the country , compared to a project which focuses delicate
institutional reforms .
Part of the rationale of the project was to reduce costs to government by switching from a highly subsidized fuel to a
less subsidized fuel, which is the right approach when political economy issues do not warrant a more aggressive
approach to subsidy reforms. This project also had an institutional capacity building aspect by improving the
expertise of Town Gas in international procurement and safeguards management.

Making an effective use of the period between project approval and effectiveness could be very useful to avoid
unnecessary project delays .
The conditions for effectiveness of a project are often related to legal or process aspects that are not strictly related
to the nature of the investments to be financed. As shown above, this project benefited from using the 13 months
elapsing from its approval and its effectiveness for Town Gas and EGAS in moving the procurement of works
contracts forward. The Bank’s team proactivity and continuity at this stage and throughout the project also
contributed to a successful implementation.

Embedding a Bank-financed operation within a key strategy of the Government could strongly increase the
likelihood of successful implementation and outcomes .
The GoE continues to be committed to increasing the coverage of gas connections as shown by the new operation
financed by the Bank and approved in 2014. This commitment provided an overall positive environment for the
project to support the overall objective of the GOE. The 330,000 households’ gas connections of this project were a
move towards achievement of the long term goal of the government.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes   No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is candid and concise, and provided an adequate analysis of the sector context. The evidence provided to
support outcomes is quantitative and directly related to measuring the achievement of the PDO. The Beneficiary
Survey Results in Annex 5 were useful and instructive. The ICR is of the right length at 16 pages for the main text, and
complies with the OPCS guidelines. However, the actual disbursed amount was missing in Annex 1(b) on project
financing (the ICR indicates a "zero" value). Also, only the total project cost is provided in Annex A of the ICR; no
separate costs are provided per component, on an appraisal versus actual basis

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
