Th. World Bank
FMR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6065-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
October 24, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit    =    Ringgit (M$)
Average 1985                                     March 1986
US$1.00     =       M$2.48                     US$1.00      =       M$2.53
M$1.00              US$0.40                    M$1.00       =       US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malaysia
January 1 - December 31
Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad
January 1 - December 31
Sabah Development Bank
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BKPM  -       Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad
BNM   -       Bank Negara Malaysia
EPR   -       Effective Protection Rate
ERR   -       Economic Rate of Return
FTZ   -       Free Trade Zone
CDP   -       Gross Domestic Product
GNP   -       Gross National Product
IMF   -      International Monetary Fund
LMW   -      Licensed Manufactured Warehouse
MIPS  -       Malaysian Industrial Policy Studies
NEP   -      New Economic Policy
NIF   -       New Investment Fund
PFIs  -       Participating Financial Institutions
SDB   -      Sabah Development Bank Berhad
SSE   -      Small Scale Enterprises
UNDP  -      United Nations Development Program



FOR OFCIA  USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrowers:       Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad (BKPM) and
Sabah Development Bank Berhad (SDB).
Guarantor:       Malaysia
Loan Amount:   A total of US$65 million equivalent comprising two loans:
BKPM:  US$20 million
SDB:   US$45 million
Terms:           15 years including three years grace for BKPM, and 13 years
including four years grace for SDB, both at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        BKPM woul. onlend Bank loan proceeds to subborrowers in Ringgit
for periods of up to 15 years and SDB for periods of up to 13
years, at variable market rates. The Guarantor to charge a one
time 1 fee paid up front for guaranteeing the repayment of
Bank loan and availability of foreign exchange therefor.
Project
Description: The project would provide long-term capital for medium- and
large-scale subprojects essentially in the private sector, with
the Bank funds financing the direct and indirect foreign
exchange component. Eligible sectors would include: manufac-
turing, transportation, tourism and commercial agriculture; but
the bulk of financing is projected to be for manufacturing
sector subprojects. Consumer real estate, oceangoing shipping
and cocoa growing financing would be excluded. The estimated
50-60 subprojects would generate jobs and produce a wide range
of products for import substitution as well as for exports. A
major benefit from the proposed project would be the opportu-
nity for the Bank to work closely with two additional develop-
ment banks on the refocussing of their lending strategies and
on upgrading their institutional efficiency. Together with the
institutions participating in the Small Scale Enterprise
project approved in 1984, the Bank would now be associated with
four of the five major development banks in the country and,
thus, have the opportunity to further strengthen institutional
arrangements for providing long-term capital for investment
financing. The project is expected to result in total estima-
ted investment of about US$250 million. The project risks
include a longer than projected period of loan commitment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



-=~~~~~~~~~~~ ii i
resulting from the present unfavorable investment climate
continuing longer than anticipated, and financial difficulties
for the participating institutions. The risks are relatively
minor and manageable.
Estimated
Disbursements:          FY87    FY88      FY89    FY90      FY91     FY92
---------------~~~r$   'i   n  -- - -----------
…~~~~TUi$ mitiTon)-
Annual               1.3    11.7    23.4    17.6       8.4      2.6
Cumulative          1.3    13.0    36.4    54.0       62.4     65.0
Rate of Return:              n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 6065-KA, dated October 24, 1986.
M:  IBRD No. 19374



MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUK4ARY ..................... ......... . i-ii
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND .............................. .                        I
The Manufacturing Sector ................................
Commercial Agriculture/Agio-Industries Sector ...............               4
Financial Sector.      ......................  ............                 4
Bank Strategy for Industrial Sector Lending .................               7
II .  THE PROJECT        ...   ..............................................    7
Project Objectives and Description-e-..  ...................                7
Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad (BKPM) .............               8
Sabeh Development Bank Berhad (SDB)         ............
III. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ......................................,0
Features of the Proposed Loan    .          ....................
Procurement and Disbursement .............................
Project Benefits and Risks .................            -.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS TO BE SOUGHT AT
NEGOTIATIONS            ........... o...         ......... ...   22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Malayaia in
October 1985. Mission members were Zamir Hasan (mission leader), Hugh Murphy
and Tsutomu Shibata.



ANNEXES
1.  The Financial System:
Table 1     Components of the Financial System, December 31, 1983-85.
Table 2     Lending Rates of Selected Financial Institutions as of
December 31, 1984 and June 30, 1985
2. BKPM
Appendix 1  Statement of Future Operational Strategies
Appendix 2  Statement of Operational and Financial Policies
Table 1     Summary of Loan Operations, 1981-85
Table 2     Characteristics of Loan Commitments and Outstanding as of
June 30, 1985
Table 3     Summarized Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1981-85
Table 4     Summarized Income Statements for the Years 1981-85
Table 5     Financial Indicators, 1981-85
Table 6     Resource Position as of December 31, 1985
Table 7     Summary of Projected Loan Operations, 1986-90
Table 8     Summarized Projected Balance Sheets, 1986-90
Table 9     Summarized Projected Income Statements, 1986-90
Table 10    Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1986-90
Table 11    Projected Financial Indicators, 1986-90
3. SDB
Appendix 1  Strategy Statement, 198b-1988
Appendix 2  Policy Statement
Table I     Summary of Loan Operations for the Years 1981-85
Table 2     Medium- and Long-Term Loan Size Distribution as of June 30,
1985
Table 3     Sectoral Distribution of Loan Portfolio as of June 30, 1985
Table 4     Summarized Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1981-85
Table 5     Summarized Income Statements for the Years 1981-85
Table 6     Financial Indicators for the Years 1981-85
Table 7     Analysis of Arrears for the Years 1981-84 and First Half 1985
Table 8     Analysis of Loans in Arrears as of June 30, 1985
Table 9     Resource Position as of December 31, 1985
Table 10    Projected Loan Operations, 1986-90
Table 11    Projected Balance Sheets, 1986-90
Table 12    Projected Income Statements, 1986-90
Table 13    Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1986-90
Table 14    Projected Financial Indicators, 1986-90
4. Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of Proposed Bank Loan
5. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. The Financial System of Malaysia
2. BKPM Organization
3. SDB Organization



MPAIYSIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
1.01      The industrial sector which comprises manufacturing, mining and
quarrying, construction, and electricity and gas, accounts for about 31% of
Kalaysia's Cross Domestic Product (GDP). Although its share has declined from
about 372 during 1970-75, it is still the single largest contributor to GDP.
Within the industrial sector, the share of manufacturing is about two thirds
of the total; it was 19% of GDP in 1985. Since the pr-pased project will
benefit principally the manufacturing sector, the discussion in the following
focusses on this sector. The potential for commercial agriculture/agro
industries in the State of Sabah is also discussed briefly because a part of
the proposed loan is expected to finance some subprojects in this subsector.
A more detailed discussion of the industrial sector is contained in the latest
economic report of the Bank titled Malaysia: Industrializing a Primary
Producer (Report No. 5908-MA, dated June, 1986).
The Manufacturing Sector
1.02      Trends in Manufacturing.  The performance of the Malaysian manufac-
turing sector has mirrored that of the overall economy: very good until the
late 1970s, a marked slowdown during the early 1980s, some revival in 1984 but
declining again in 1985. Tts share in GDP has increased from 14% in 1971 to
19% in 1985. However, the growth of manufacturing output has decelerated con-
siderably, from an average annual rate of about 13% during 1973-78 to about 5%
per year during 1982-85. Despite some revival in 1984 when it increased at
12.9%, the growth of manufacturing output fell 3% in 2985, and is projected to
increase marginally in 1986.
1.03      Structure of Manufacturing.  Textiles and electrical goods are the
fastest growing subsectors within manufacturing. During the 1970s, annual
growth in textiles was about 16% p.a.; however, in the early 1980s, its growth
slowed down to about 8%. The electrical goods subsector expanded in the 1970s
at an average annual rate of 13.3%; but unlike textiles or even overall trends
in manufacturing GDP, it picked up momentum in the eerly 1980s when the aver-
age annual growth rate increased to about 19%, largely owing to sustained
rapid export growth. Besides electrical goods and textiles, the metal pro-
ducts, paper and printing, and transport equipment subsectors have also regis-
tered significant expansion. Manufacturing employment is concentrated in
electrical and electronics, textiles and garments, food and wood based indus-
tries; together these account for nearly half of manufacturing employment.
'.04      Manufactured Exports.  The performance of manufactured exports has
been impressive indeed; their share in total exports increased from 15.1% in
1973 to 31.1% in 1984.  But growth rates of manufactured exports (with the



- 2 -
exception of electronics) bah. follow"e  th  pattern of Sgo   h rates of output,
viz, a slowdown in the early 1980. compared to the performance in most of the
1970s. During 1975-79, manufactured exports increased at an average annual
rate of 26.5%, but slowed down to about 14% during 1980-84. Manufactured
exports still account for about 30% of total merchandise exports. The major
contributors to the rapid export growth were: (a) electrical machinery, elec-
tronics and applianees, which increased from M$359 million in 1974 to
M$6,762 million in 1984; (b) textiles, clothing and footwear whose exports
increased from M$160 million in 1974 to M$1,143 million in 1984; and
(c) petroleum and chemicals, whose exports increased from M$235 million in
1974 to M$1,325 million in 1984.
1.05      The robust export performance in manufactured items is largely due
to the Free Trade Zones (FTZs) and Licensed Manufactured Warehouses (LMWs),
which together account for about two thirds of cotal manufactured exports of
Malaysia. The FTZs are concentrated in electrical/electronics as FTZ exports
of these items amounted to 89% of exports of this subsector. An important
feature of FTZ firms, however, is their heavy dependence on imported
materials; value-added as a proportion of total sales is rather low. The FTZs
and LM:4s are also dominated by multinational companies. The result has been
that the linkages of the FTZ firms with the rest of the economy are very weak
and the spread effects have been much smaller than anticipated at the time
these were established.
1 0e1     rndustrial Strategy.  If the socio-political imperative of main-
rainirig  relatively high long-term growth of the overall economy is to be
achieved, the inevitable conclusion is that manufacturing has to play a key
role. Manufacturing also offers the best potential for reducing the balance
of payment.s scrain and absorbing a growing labor force. However, the export-
based development, led essentially by electronics/electricals and textiles,
Located ir FlZs, and owned by multinationals, no longer offers a viable stra-
tegy. SInce the early 1980s, the overall world economic scene is character-
.<.e4 sy s'* gr:wth and a disinflationary environment, giving rise to press-
ures :r, industrialized countries to limit imports.  With a very limited growth
of the market, if not an actual contraction, the competition between export-
orienred developing countries has become very intense, because the markets as
we] i as the products are essentially the same.
1.07      Starting in the early 1980s when the FTZ's manufactured exports
started to slow down, the Government realized that the deepening and diversi-
fication of manufacturing was important to nurture new export industries for
the future and to ensure that the economy would have a leading sector capable
of generating the needed level of emplyment. For a variety of reasons rela-
ted to the New Economic Policy (NEP),- the lumpy nature of investments in the
industries selected and the relatively long gestation requirements, it was the
public sector that took the lead in developing metal, cement, pulp and paper,
1/   The New Economic Policy, declared in 1971, is a long-term policy to
eradicate poverty and reduce raciaL imbalances in income, employment and
ow-rership of assets.



transport, and petroleum or gas based industries. Some of the projects have
been completed and others are approaching completion; but it will be some
years before their viability can be fully established. Looking ahead, there
is little doubt that Malaysia needs to gradtate from light labor intensive
manufactures and move towards the production of intermediate and producer
goods. Also, as industrialization continues, it is likely, that the role of
the private sector will become steadily greater.
1.08      The Government is cutting back on infrastructure investment and has
started to stimulate private sector involvement in manufacturing. It has
embarked on a program of "privatiation," which is still unfolding. The
Government is identifying suitable activities/entities which can be priva-
tized. At the same time, it has declared that it would also consider propo-
sals for sale/transfer to the private sector of any activity/entity identified
by the private sector itself. The extent of privatization may range from com-
plete transfer of ownership at one extreme to transfer of management only at
the other extreme. Perhaps the most important step the Government has taken
to further its industrial strategy is to come to grips with the incentives
policy framework.
1.09      Policy Framework.  The policy framework governing industrial incen-
tives has remained fairly steady through the years; the average effective rate
of protection (EPR) was 24% in 1979 and 23% in 1982. However, the incentive
framework governed by nontrade policy instruments also exerted significant
protectionist influence. In 1979, these fiscal incentives added nearly 9%
protection to subsectors for domestic production, and though estimat:s are nor
available for later years, the impression is that it strengthened further to
usher in the second round of import substitution activities. The combined
effect of both trade and fiscal incentive policy instruments was to exert a
strong anti-export bias to precisely those subsectors which were growing fast
in the early years and had potential for further growth during the i980s.
1.10      In view of the manufacturing slowdown since the late 1970s, the
Government is quite concerned, and has recently undertaken a major review ot
the policy framework based on the results of the Malaysian Industrial Policy
Studies (MIPS), a United Nations Development Program (UNDP) funded and Bank
executed project. A thorough review has been completed by the Government, a
process in which the Bank actively participated. The major conclusions that
have emerged are: (a) there is no basis for additional and across-the-board
incentives; (b) the general environment has to be conducive for industrial
growth with respect to strategy, incentive regime and the role of public/pri-
vate sectors; (c) there is a need for specific selective changes in the iicen-
tive regime, but not sweeping changes or overhauling of the entire regime; and
(d) export promotion efforts would have a priority. The Bank agrees with
these conclusions.
1.11      Having reached these conclusions, the Government is now considering
the means of giving effect to them. The Investment Coordination Act was
revised in December 1985 to raise the government licensing threshold for
investments from M$250,000 to M$l million. The result of this will be to
leave the investment decisions about a greater proportion of total projectq to



-4-
private entrepreneurs and bring more automaticity to the application of incen-
tives. The Government is also taking steps to reduce bias against exporting
through an extension of duty free status to both direct and indirect expor-
ters, and selective reduction in excessive protection for domestic market pro-
duction. In addition, consideration is being given to revising nontrade
policy incentives for import competing industries, while continuing such
incentives for the exporting industries.  Ligh priority will continue to be
given to regional dispersal of manufacturing activity and for technology
transfer. As mentioned earlier, an attempt is also being made to reduce the
role of the public sector through privatization. All these policy initiatives
are steps in the right direction.
1.12      The Industrial Master Plan was made public in February 1986, and the
Fifth Five Year Plan incorporating the strategy of IMP was announced in April
1986. The Bank staff has been actively involved in the discussions of policy
options first in the context of the management and execution of the MIPS proj-
ect and subsequently in the context of the identification, preparation and
appraisal of the proposed project and normal country economic work. The Bank
will continue to be actively involved in these efforts and their monitoring.
Commercial Agriculture/Agro Industries Sector
1.13      Since Sabah is predominantly an agricultural State, there is great
potential for the development of commercial agriculture/agro industries.  The
comprehensive Sabah Regional Planning Study focuses on commercial scale
plantations of four principal tree crops -- coconut, rubber, cocoa and oil
palm -- and on potential processing industries including copra-kilns, coconut
oil mills, coir, rubber processing and various products based on rubber, cocoa
b.an drying, cocoa butter/paste, chocolate and confectionery, and palm oil
processing and refining. In addition to these potentially important
industries, timber based industry is already quite well developed in Sabah.
In the future, the choice of specific crops and/or industries, and the pace of
development, would depend on international marketing considerations, princi-
pally price developments. As the principal development finance institution in
Sabah, Sabah Development Bank would participate in the development and
financing of these industries as opportunities arise. Given the present world
production of cocoa, however, Bank funds would not be allocated to its produc-
tion and processing (see paragraph 2.02).
Financial Sector
1.14      Financial System.  Since Malaysia's independence in 1957, the
country's financial system has grown from one comprised primarily of commer-
cial banks to one with a wide range of financial institutions and services.
Today, the financial system is one of the most developed among countries at a
similar stage of economic development as Malaysia, and is deepening rapidly.
As an indication of financial deepening, the ratio of broad money (If ) to GDP
was 59% in 1983, significantly higher than Thailand's 45%, Korea's 2'% and
Indonesia's 20% in the same year.
1.15      The banking system, which is the major component of the financial
sector, consists of Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM), serving as the central bank,



- 5 -
and 38 commercial banks, 43 finance companies and 12 merchant banks. The
conmercial banks, with a branch network of more than 700 offices, represent by
far the largest component, accounting for about 45Z of total assets of the
entire financial system at the end of 1984. The 43 finance companies, 12 of
whibh are subidiarios of commercial banks, are the socond largest deposit
taking institutions with more than 300 branches, and account for about 11 of
total assets of the financial system. Among the nonbank financial interme-
diaries, the Employees Provident Fund is the largest, accounting for about 141
of the total assets of the financial system. The development finance institu-
tions account for less than 31 of the total assets of the financial system.
Their share is believed, although exact data are not available, to be much
higher in terms of providing long-term capital for the manufacturing sector.
The relative share of the various components of the financial system is given
in Annex 1, Table 1; the financial system is depicted in Chart 1.
1.16      The financial system is served by a sophisticated money market where
the principaL instruments are treasury bills, overnight and seven-day call
money, short-term deposits, negotiable certificates of deposit, bankers'
acceptances and repurchase agreements. In the equities market, the Kuala
Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) with a market capitalization of US$29.2 billion
as of end 1984, is bigger than the stock exchanges in South Korea, Taiwan, the
Philippines, Thailand and Inuonesia combined. About 280 companies are
presently listed on the KLSE, 60% of which are also listed on the Singapore
stock exchange. A market for corporate debt instruments is yet to develop in
Malaysia.
1.17      Interest Rates.  Interest rates in Malaysia are, generally speaking,
free and market determined. Selected interest rates as of December 31, 1984
and June 30, 1985 are given in Annex 1, Table 2. Rates for individual
borrowers are determined by adding a margin to a base lending rate (BLR) which
is determined by each bank individually in line with its own cost of funds.
In June 1986, the BLR of the two largest banks was 9.75%, and the 12-months
deposit rate was 7%. In recent years, the inflation rate was 3.7% ir 1983,
3.9% in 1984 and 0.3% in 1985 (as measured by CPI), meaning that real interest
rates for lending as well as for deposits have remained substantially
positive.
1.18      Financial Sector Issues.  Financial sector issues in developing
countries normally relate to the foreign exchange value of the domestic
currency and interest rates. In Malaysia. there are no major distortions with
regard to these two principal areas. Historically, the Ringgit has been a
stable currency; and interest rates are essentially market determined,
substantially positive in real terms, and responsive to changes in interest
rates internationally. Since the capital account of the balance of payments
is relatively open, the freely determined interest rates also incorporate the
market's judgment as to the relative value of the domestic currency and
expectations with regard to exchange rate fluctuations in the future. A
detailed study by the International Monetary Fund in early 1985 recommended
measures to improve the flexibility of domestic interest rates and their
response to changes in monetary policy.



- 6 -
1.19      Although interest rates are essentially market determined, there are
lower rates for certain "priority" sectors, and the financial system is
"directed" to earmark part of total credit to given sectors. No precise data
are available to shov the extent of lending by the financial system at
incentive rates nd that of "directed loading." Rough data indicate, howvesr,
that most of the priority sector loans made through the banking sector carry
no less than 92 interest, i.e., interest rates that are substantially positive
in real terms. BNM has been trying to reduce the extent of lending at
subsidized rates; the Treasury also supports such efforts in order to reduce
the pressure on the national budget.
1.20      There are, nevertheless, a number of problem areas in the financial
sector. One area is the relative underdevelopent of a securities market
dealing in privately issued instruments. A related problem is the dependence
of the country's development finance institutions on direct and indirect
government funding. Late in 1985, the Government asked the Bank to undertake
a study of possible modifications in the funding sources of development
finance institutions and more generally their role in the financial system.
After the general scope of this study was agreed with the Government, the
field work was undertaken in June-July 1986. The report of the study will,
inter alia, examine in detail the alternative sources of funds for these
institutions and recommend how they may define their role in a rapidly growing
and dynamic financial system. The report will also examine the reasons for
the relative underdevelopment of the private debt securities market in that
context. Yet another problem has been the insufficient availability of export
finance; the Government also requested the Bank to undertake a study of this
subject. The field work for this study was undertaken in March-April 1986 and
the draft report is now being studied by the Government.
1.21      A serious problem with the financial sector, and one that is to be
addressed by the proposed project, concerns the availability of long- and
medium-term finance for the manufacturing sector. Over the past few years, as
can be seen in the table below, there has also been a diversion of a
disproportionately high share of total credit to the financing of real estate
(including construction and housing).
PERCENT SHARE IN TOTAL CREDIT
1978        1980         1983        1984         1985
Real estate, incl.
construction, housing  21.4          27.5         32.7        35.3         41.5
Manufacturing              17.8        19.8          17.3        16.1         15.5
This has worked to the detriment of manufacturing and can be seen by comparing
the proportion of total credit going to each one of these sectors with their
contribution to GDP. Manufacturing is contributing about 20% to GDP; the



exact data on the real estate sector's contribution to GDP is not available,
but it is no more than lOX. BNM is already putting pressure on the banking
sector to reduce its exposure in the real estate sector. In addition, the
Government has recently set up a M$l billion New Investment Fund (NIF) to
increase the availability of credit to manufacturing, agriculture and
tourism. This is a refinancing scheme under which comercial banks can obtain
funds from BNM up to 751 of the amount of the loans for financing new fixed
investments; they, however, assume the risk for the full amount of the
loans. The cost of NIF funds to commercial banks is 1.51 below the BLR and
the onlending rate is fixed at 1.25% above BLR. Loans under NIF are for up to
five years. The proposed project will complement these measures by increasing
the availability of longer-term credit, principally for investment in manufac-
turing, through two development banks. The term of Bank financed subprojects
will depend on their nature, but it is expected that, on average, it will be
substantially longer than five years. The needs of the institutions partici-
pating in the proposed project are for funds with maturities of 5-12 years;
there will be, therefore, no competition between NIF funds and the proposed
Bank loan.
Bank Strategy for Industrial Sector Lending
1.22      Until recently, the principal obiective of Bank lending in Malaysia
was poverty alleviatior.  The operational programs accordingly emphasized
agricultural and rural development projects. Given the crucral importance of
the industrial/manufacturing sector at this stage of Malaysia's development,
the Government has requested that the Bank, in addition, provide support to
efficient industrial development through arrangements for industrial invest-
ment in a framework of appropriate industrial and financial sector policies.
The underpinning for the Bank's policy dialogue has so for been provided by a
large amount of sector work undertaken by the Bank during the psit three to
four years, culminating in the Malaysian Industrial Pclicy Studies (HIPS)
project completed in early 1985. Most recently, in 1986, the Bank has under-
taken a study of export finance concentrating on preshipment finance, and a
study of the development finance institutions in the country with emphasis on
possible institutional restruicturing, competitiveness and resource
mobilization.
1.23      The Bank's industrial sector lending program is still evolving.
Apart from the Small Scale Enternrise (SSE) project (Loan 2471-MA) which
became effective in April 1985, the proposed project will be the first indus-
trial sector operation in more than two decades. Its objectives have been
kept modest for that reason.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
2.01      The main objectives of the proposed project may be divided into two
broad categories: sectoral and institutional. In the sectoral context, the
project continues the constructive policy dialogue in the financial and indus-
trial sectors between the Government and the Bank. The broad outline of
improvements in the policy framework has already emerged, as discussed



-8-
earlier. As regards institutional strategy, the overall approach is to:
(a) improve iistitutional efficiency and broaden the activities of the two
participating financial institutions (PFIs); (b) broaden the PFIs' resource
base and reduce their dependence on government funding; and (c) improve
resource allocation efficiency by strengthening long-term project based
lending. Together with the institutions under the SSE project, the Bank would
be associated with four of the five principal development banks in the country
and, thus, have the opportunity to further strengthen institutional
arrangements for providing long-term capital for investment financing. The
project would also, by providing long-term foreign exchange funds in
substitution of short-term private sector borrowings, help improve the
country's foreign debt profile and help the central bank in its debt manage-
ment.
2.02      The proposed project would provide long  erm capital to finance a
broad range of medium- and medium-to-large scale projects, essentially in the
private sector. The subprojects will be selected and appraised by the two
PFIs. Broad criteria for project selection have been agreed with the PFIs;
these supplement those specified in the PFI's charters and policy state-
ments. Projects in manufacturing, transportation, tourism, and agro-industry/
commercial agriculture would be eligible. Financing for consumer real estate,
ocean-going shipping, and cocoa growing would be excluded. Agreemen' to this
effect was reached during negotiations. Economically justified import substi-
tuting and export promoting projects will be emphasized. Only the foreign
exchange component (direct as well as indirect) of the total costs of individ-
ual subprojects would be financed under the proposed loan. To ensure the
financing of a reasonable number of projects, it has been agreed to limit the
mlximum size of a subloan to 10% of the amount of the proposed loan to each
PFI (para. 3.03). It is expected that the proposed loan would finance about
50-60 subprojects, mostly in the manufacturing sector.
2.03      In consultation with the Government, including BNM, two development
banks have been selected to participate in the proposed project. These are:
Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad which was set up in 1979 as a wholly
government-owned development bank and has so far financed only shipping and
shipyard related projects; and Sabah Development Bank which is the principal
development finance institution in the State of Sabah. When the project
preparation was started, five institutions were envisaged, including a commer-
cial bank, and a merchant bank. However, the e institutions dropped out for
various reasons, including one development bank which opted Out after the
appraisal had been completed.
Bank Keinajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad (BKPM)
2.04      Nature and Role.  BKPM was established in August 1979 as a
government-owned development finance institution to provide financing for
large-scale capital intensive projects with long gestation periods, which the
private banking system was reluctant to finance. However, soon after the
institution started operations in 1980, the Government's fiscal position
tightened and it could not provide the required budgetary resources to BKPM to
finance the kind of projects originally intended. BKPM, therefore, concen-
trated on financing coastal shipping, small shipbuilding and ship repair



- 9 -
industries which had high priority from a balance of payments point of view.
Because of the priority given to this sector by the Government, most loans
have been at less than market rates of interest.
2.05      After more than five years in operation, BKPM is redefining its
role. This reassessment has taken place during the period of the preparation
of the proposed project, which has been a catalyst for the process. BKPM has
concluded that it cannot depend exclusively on the Government for its resource
needs without placing unacceptable constraints on its growth, and it cannot
continue to limit its sectoral concentration to shipping and related activi-
ties. It decided to seek a loan from the Bank as a first step in diversifying
its resource base away from the Government. It cannot yet forego government
funding, but it is planning a significant decline in the proportion of total
resources that it obtains from the Government. This proportion will decline
to less than 75% during 1986-90; it may decline even further depending on how
successful its efforts are to raise funds from the market. BKPM has also
decided to give increasing importance to auxiliary capital goods industries to
deepen the industrial structure and provide linkages with and support to heavy
industries which have already been sponsored. As a result of this decision,
only 43% of new commitments will go to shipping and related industries in the
next 5 years and the proportion of this sector in its total yearly commitments
will decline from 100% now to 41% in 1990.  It is also planning to play a
significant role in providing export finance but this role will develop only
gradually. These decisions are incorporated in a Statement of Future
Operational Strategies already approved by BKPM's Board of Directors and given
as Annex 2, Appendix 1; the proposed Bank loan will support these strategic
changes in BKPM's operations.
2.06      Board of Directors.  BKPM's Board of Directors, appointed by the
Government, consists of a Chairman, Deputy Chairman and two other Directors.
All are government civil servants. The current Chairman, who is now the Chief
Secretary to the Government, was appointed at the time of BKPM's establish-
ment. The Deputy Chairman and one Director are appointed from BNM; the Deputy
Chairman is the Deputy Governor of BNM. The fourth Director is appointed from
the Treasury. BKPM intends to expand its Board by appointment of private
sector representatives; this will be a step in the right direction as part of
its effort to diversify activities. The Board, which meets monthly, approves
policy matters, annual budgets and all loans. Day-to-day operations are
handled by the General Manager who had broad governmental experience before
joining BKPM in 1981.
2.07      Operating Policies.  In 1985, BKPM codified all operational policies
and guidelines into a new Statement of Operational and Financial Policies
reflecting its expanding operations (Annex 2, Appendix 2). This has been
reviewed and is acceptable; major changes would require prior Bank approval.
BKPM, expects all projects to be viable both economically and technically. In
addition, collaterals and/or guarantees are required. BKPM finances 90% of
the project costs at maximum. BKPM does not allow debt/equity ratio to exceed
10:1 for shipping projects and 5:1 for industrial projects. Domestic
shareholders should be in a majority in the borrowing company. BKPM's minimum
loan amount is M$1 million. The same amount is applied to guarantees.
Maximum exposure limit to a single borrower or group is 30% of BKPM's equity.



- 10 -
2.08      Organization, Management and Staffing.  BKPM's organization
structure is shown in Chart 2. BKPM's head office in Kuala Lumpur has four
departments:   Research and Development, Treasury, Secretariat and Adminis-
tration, and Credit. It has no present plans to open any branches. Total
staff as of September 30, 198J,was 35 (21 professionals and 14 other staff).
Staff turnover has been high,_ mainly due to a salary scale which is not com-
petitive with commercial bank salaries and the high demand for trained credit
analysts. Most of the staff are still young, but are expected to become
seasoned managers as the organization grows. Management also plans to
increase the staff by about ten, mainly in the Credit Department, within the
next 18 months. A senior engineer was recently hired to strengthen the capa-
bility to appraise engineering projects. During negotiations, BKPM informed
the Bank that two more engineers have been selected and would be joining the
institution before the end of 1986. An additional eight staff members, mostly
for the Credit Department, are expected to be recruited in 1987. These plans
for staff recruitment and strengthening are satisfactory.
2.09      BKPM management recognizes the importance of staff training.
Although its small size does not justify having internal training courses,
BKPM provides adequate training opportunities to staff. Credit analysts, for
example, are initially trained at local project evaluation courses offered by
Bank Pembangunan Malaysia and Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad,
then proceed to overseas training including: (a) project evaluation courses
offered by the Association of Development Financing Institutions in Asia and
the Pacific; and (b) shipping courses in London.
2.10       Project Appraisal and Supervision.  BKPM's Credit Department is in
charge of project appraisal and supervision as well as loan documentation and
advisory services. The Department has recently produced a comprehensive
Credit Department Manual which covers project appraisal techniques and proce-
dures, and is geared to the shipping and shipbuilding industries. The
Department has seven analysts, four of whom have MBAs. An experienced engin-
eer was appointed recently, as BKPM starts financing of engineering proj-
ects. One of his initial tasks is to adapt the project appraisal techniques
to changes in the lending strategy. The quality of the appraisal reports is
generally acceptable given the brief history of the organization. However,
appraisals at present do not include calculations of incremental labor costs
or the cost of jobs created. A financial rate of return is calculated for
every project, but economic rates of return (ERRs), although required in the
manual, are not calculated. However, BKPM plans to start shortly ERR
calculations for larger projects. During negociations, an understanding was
reached that BKPM's appraisals of all above free-limit subprojects would
include full economic analysis, including the ERR calculation. Understanding
was also reached that BKPM would bring out explicitly in its appraisal reports
the environmental impact for all above free-limit subprojects. Project risk
assessment to determine an appropriate interest rate is at present determined
subjectively by the credit analyst, using no objective rating system. A
credit rating system is being developed to assist Directors in decision
2/   The loss of professionals was three in FY84 and five in FY85.



- 11 -
making. Despite these drawbacks, the selection of projects by BKPM has been
satisfactory.
2.11      BKPM's supervision procedures are generally satisfactory.  Since
there are only a limited number of projects, the staff has been able to visit
each project at least twice a year.
2.12      Operations.  BKPM's financial services include making medium- and
long-term equipment loans, short-term working capital loans, bills discount-
ing, guarantees and leasing. BKPI also arranges loan syndications and pro-
vides advisory services. Its overall operations during 1981-85 are summarized
in Annex 2, Table 1. Since its inception, BKPM has committed 28 loans amount-
ing to N$176 million. Annual commitments peaked at M$41.9 million in 1983.
Commitmentr in 1984 and 1985 amounted to M$30.5 million and M$34.4 million
respectively. In the first six months of 1986, commitments were lagging their
1965 pace. BKPM attributes the low commitment volume to the overall poor
investment climate. Although BKPM is still small, its loans outstanding have
increased almost three times in the last four years. The growth has been in
term equipment loans which increased, on an outstandings basis, from M$15.6
million in FY81 to M$71.2 million in FY85. Short-term working capital Loans
now account for 20% of the total outstanding portfolio, having declined from
being almost 50% at the end of the first year of operations. Term loans for
the purchase of ships and equipment for shipyards and engineering sector are
provided for up to 12 years with 2-5 years of grace. The repayment period is
determined according to the nature of the project, the borrower's ability to
repay and the economic life of the project.
2.13      Characteristics of BKPM's operations are given in Annex 2,
Table 2.  As of the end of 1985, all BKPM loans had gone to the shipping and
shipbuilding industries. BKPM's loans have ranged in size from M$600,000 to
M$25 million. The average loan size was relatively large at M$5.7 million.
Most of the loans are concentrated in Sabah and Johore where the shipyards and
shipping companies are located.
2.14      Other services offered by BKPM include guarantees, leasing, loan
syndications, and management advisory services. Repayment guarantees are
issued for imported ships; two guarantees totalling M$8.7 million have been
provided thus far. BKPM has recently agreed to offer guarantees for leasing
to be financed from a loan of US$10 million provided by the Islamic
Development Bank.
2.15      BKPM also arranges loan syndications for projects which need sub-
stantial financing and four syndications totalling M$73.6 million have been
arranged thus far. Advisory and management services for shipping are also
offered to BKPM's clients, and advisory services are obligatory for small bor-
rowers unfamiliar with the business.
2.16      Financial Position.  BKPM's summarized balance sheets are given in
Annex 2, Table 3. From FY81 to FY85, BKPM's total assets grew from M$144 mil-
lion to M$207 million. Although the loan portfolio has increased substan-
tially during the past four years, short-term investments (M$100 million)
still exceeded the loan portfolio at the end of 1985. The short-term invest-



- 12 -
ments represent the temporary deployment of liquid resources before they are
comitted/disbursed as long-term loans. Due to a relatively large amount of
paid-in capital of M$40 million and retained earnings, the long-term debt/
equity ratio remains at 2.1:1. BKPM's own limit is 10:1. The quality of the
loan portfolio is so far satisfactory, and there have been no arrears or re-
schedulings since BKPM's inception. Total reserves and provisions at the end
of FY85 amounted to 24.5% of loans outstanding. Given the present quality of
the loan portfolio and the amount of reserves, the provision for bad debts,
set at 1% of loans outstanding, is considered adequate.
2.17      Financial Performance.  BKPM's income statements and financial
indicators are given in Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5 respectively.  BKPM's income
has increased steadily since assets have grown while the cost of resources has
remained stable. BKPM'8s loan portfolio is still small, and interest on loans
accounted for 241 and 321 of gross income in FY84 and FY85 respectively, show-
ing considerable increase from 5% in FY81. In FY85, earnings from investment
of liquid resources, which amounted to M$11.6 million, provided most of the
bank's income (M$17.7 million). Guarantee fees and other income provided the
balance. At 9.8%, the yield on investments and deposits is much higher than
average loan interest (7.4%). Financial expenses have remained stable for the
past four years, as BKPM has made neither new borrowings nor repayments.
BKPM's gross spread on average total assets was 5.3% and 5.6% in FY84 and FY85
respectively. Administrative expenses at about 0.7% of average total assets
have remained unchanged for the last four years. Net income after taxes as a
percentage of total average assets has been about 2.5% which is satisfactory;
the return on equity for 1985 was 7.6%. Since the Government does not require
dividends, BKPM has been able to retain all its net income.
2.18      Audit.  In accordance with Malaysian practice, BKPM reports its
financial statements on an accrual basis. Its accounts are audited annually
by external auditors who are acceptable to the Bank; being a government-owned
institution it is also subject to audit by the Treasury. The audit reports
have been unqualified, including the 1985 report.
2.19      Resources.  Since 1982, BKPM has added no major resources except
retained profits, which increased from M$7.7 million in FY82 to M$20.8 million
in FY85. Its principal sources of funds have been: (a) term borrowing from
the Government (M$100 million), with interest at 6% capitalized until 1985;
(b) a line of credit from BNM (M$10 million) which may go up to M$40 million
at an interest rate of 3%; and (c) paid-in capital (M$40 million). Resource
position as of December 31, 1985 is summarized in Annex 2, Table 6; it shows
that uncommitted resources amounted to M$36 million as of that date.
2.20      Projected Operations.  BKPM's projections of its future operations
are given in Annex 2, Table 7. BKPM sees its overall lending operations in-
creasing considerably from the depressed levels of 1984-85. It is projecting
its term loans to increase to M$216 million in 1990, for a total of about
M$940 million for the 1986-90 period. Although the overall projections are
quite ambitious in view of BKPM's actual performance and lackluster economic
environment, BKPM believes they can be achieved; in the past BKPM's operations
were confined to shipping and related activities only, whereas in the future,
it will be financing other sectors as well. The Industrial Master Plan and



- 13 -
the new Five-Year Plan have already been announced, and BKPM expects the
investment demand to pick up in the second half of 1986.
2.21      Resource Requirements.  The cumulative disbursements during 1986-90
on which BKPM bases its resource planning are expected to amount to M$936 mil-
lion, including M$275 million in working capital loans. Disbursements for
long-term loans during 1987-89, the estimated period of commitment of the
proposed loan, are estimated at M$414 million. These requirements are
expected to be met from the following sources: (a) borrowings of M$173 mil-
lion from the Government; (b) M$99 million from its loan collection;
(c) M$65 million equivalent in foreign currency loan (including the proposed
Bank loan of US$20 million); td) M$50 million cash generation from operations;
and (e) about M$40 million from liquidation of short-term investments.
Repayment of borrowings would be M$13 million which is insignificant.
2.22      As indicated above, BKPM undertakes its resource planning on a cash
or disbursement basis. As BKPM moves away from governmental sources of
financing, it should preferably undertake its resource planning on a
commitment basis. This was discussed during negotiations and appropriate
understanding reached.
2.23      Projected Financial Position and Performance.  BKPM's financial
position and performance are expected to remain sound for the period FY86-90.
BKPM's total assets would increase significantly from M$207 million at the end
of 1985 to M$645 million in FY90, with an average annual increase of 25%. The
long-term debt to equity ratio would increase gradually but would still be a
reasonable 4.2:1 in FY90 if equity is increased as planned in 1986. The current
ratio in FY90 would still be 2.0:1 despite its decline from FY86. Debt service
coverage for FY86-90 would range from 2.6:1 to 2.9:1 and is satisfactory.
Summarized projected Balance Sheets are given in Annex 2, Table 8.
2.24      Net income as a percentage of total average assets would be 1.8% on
average during the period and satisfactory, despite a slight decline from 2.2%
in FY85. With the rapid increase in portfolio, interest income would increase
substantially as a share of gross income from 32% in 1985 to 92% in 1990, and as
a percentage of average total assets, from 8.6% to 10.8% during the same
period. With the decline of subsidized funds in total resources, the average
cost of borrowings increases appreciably after 1986, to about 8.5%. Return on
equity is expected to remain satisfactory at 9.5% in 1990. Summarized Projected
Income Statements, Projected Cash Flow Statements and Projected Financial
Indicators are given in Annex 2, Tables 9-11 respectively.
Sabah Development Bank Berhad (SDB)
2.25      Nature and Role.  SDB was established in 1977 as the principal
development finance institution for the State of Sabah although it can, by its
statute, invest anywhere in Malaysia. Its role quickly evolved not only into
being an independent development bank for financing private sector projects but
also as a financial advisor to the state government in the financing of public
sector projects and a conduit for government funds for projects selected by the
state government. To safeguard its financial integrity it arranged from the
beginning that government nominated projects would be financed only from the



- 14 -
funds provided by Government on a project-by-project basis and with repayments
to the state government tied to collections from the projects. More recently,
it has been decided that the SDB will no longer finance any "nominated proj-
ects." This decision is included in the Strategy Statement recently adopted by
SDB's Board. During negotiations, SDB confirmed that the State Cabinet had
recently taken a formal decision to this effect. In fact some loans have been
handed back to the Government and taken off SDB's books. Its advisory role in
financing of public sector projects will however continue. In this capacity it
will continue to syndicate large loans (both local and foreign), participate in
loan negotiations and otherwise advise the State Government and government
enterprises, for a fee. Because there will be no nominated projects in the
future, the growth of its assets will be slower, but SDB will be A leaner and
more independent financial institution. In recent years, SDB has raised an
increasing proportion of its resources from the private capital markets (both
domestic as well as foreign) and is also emphasizing syndications and loan
packaging in its operations. The change in emphasis away from financing of
government projects and dependence on government funding has been incorporated
in the Strategy Statement (Annex 3, Appendix 1) which charts its course for the
foreseeable future. SDB has been a profitable institution and recently
instituted dividend payments which will not exceed 10% of the paid-in capital or
50% of the net profit, whichever is lower.
2.26      Board of Directors.  SDB's Articles of Association provide for a Board
of Directors consisting of a minimum of two to a maximum of seven directors. At
present there are four directors including the permanent secretary in the Sabah
State Ministry of Finance, who was recently appointed the Chairman. The current
Managing Director was previously a SDB Director (para. 2.28). The other two
Directors are a local Sabah businessman and a lawyer.
2.27      The Board of Directors provides overall policy guidance; one of its
principal responsibilities is to approve all loans above M$5 million. The
Managing Director is authorized to approve loans from M$750,000 to M$3.0 mil-
lion, depending on the type of loan. An Executive Loan Committee (comprising
any two Directors, the Chairman and the Mans.ging Director) is authorized to
approve loans of M$3-5 million each.
2.28      Organization, Management and Staff.  SDB's Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer assumed this position in May 1985. The Managing Director is
assisted in the day-to-day operations by a General Manager, an SDB employee
since 1979, and four Group Heads. In May 1985, SDB's management structure was
reorganized and strengthened into its present form with functional responsibili-
ties divided between the four group heads (operations/accounting, loan supervis-
ion/appraisal, personnel/training, research/EDP) where formerly there were only
three. SDB's present organization structure is given in Chart 3.
2.29      SDB is staffed with competent, well-qualified professionals as evi-
denced by 95% of the institution's officer, manager and executive level staff
having college diplomas or higher degrees. While staff with degreks in business
administration, commerce, economics and accounting make up the majority of the
positions, technical fields such as engineering (2) and agriculture (3) are also
represented. Salary and benefit levels at SDB are competitive with private
enterprise (but higher than the level paid by public enterprises); staff



- 15 -
turnover has been manageable at approximately 101 per year for the last three
years. Training being accomplished by SDB for its employees is comprehensive
and satisfactory, and consists of in-house courses organized by its training
division in fundamental and intermediate banking procedures. In the last two
years most of the su?port staff have attended these courses. In addition,
ezternal banking courses in Malaysia, Hong Kong, Singapore and other locations
have been taken by approximately 60 staff in the last 2 years.
2.30      Policies.  SDB's operations are conducted in accordance with a Policy
Statement which sets out the institution's objectives, scope of activities and
priority areas for assistance. The Statement is satisfactory to the Bank; major
changes would require prior Bank approval. The priority areas are agriculture,
agro-industry, wood-based industries, and export or import substitution indus-
tries. The Policy Statement also broadly defines the qualifications for poten-
tial projects and sets guidelines for SDB's limits on investments and lending.
Borrowers are normally required to put up equity equal to 402 of project costs
but this may be reduced to 30X for agriculture and 252 for Bumiputra projects.
Aggregate equity investments are not to exceed 252 of SDB's equity, and maximum
exposure to a single borrower is limited to 302 of SDB's equity. The Policy
Statement also provides that SDB's dividends would not exceed 10% of paid-in
capital or 50% of net profit, whichever is lower. SDB is also not to assume any
foreign exchange risk. The Policy Statement is given as Annex 3, Appendix 2.
2.31      Project Appraisal and Supervision.  The Loan Operations Department,
consisting of 27 professionals (33% of SDB's total professional staff), perform
project appraisal and supervision functions. The quality of SDB's appraisals is
satisfactory. As a state-owned development finance institution, SDB seeks out
projects which have a high priority in Sabah's economy, but also have high
financial viability. Project proposals are reviewed by competent SDB profess-
ionals and screened by the Loan Review Committee. If the review is satisfac-
tory, the project is subjected to an in-depth appraisal focussing on its techni-
cat, economic, financial and managerial implications. The appraisal staff has
been organized into two teams consisting of agriculture/forestry and industry/
construction. Proforma financial projections are made and financial rates of
return are calculated for each proect. ERRs are not normally calculated. How-
ever, an understanding was reached during negotiations that SDB would undertake
full economic analysis including the c&lculation of ERRs for all above free-
limit subprojects under the proposed Bank loan. An understanding was also
reached that SDB would bring out explicitly in its appraisal reports the envir-
onmental impact for all above free-limit subprojects. Data on employment,
foreign exchange, and tax generation are not normally calculated. Projects are
judged primariLy on their internal cash generation ability, but also collateral
and guarantees offered are taken into consideration. Equity requirement guide-
lines for projects are stated in the SDB Policy Statement and are normally 401
of total project cost. Project supervision is adequate and is organized into
three teams (agriculture, manufacturing and construction) each consisting of
four staff. Borrowers are required to submit quarterly financial statements
along with annual audited statements. Projects experiencing difficulties must
submit monthly progress reports. Construction projects must submit monthly
architects' reports detailing progress. Agricultural projects are supervised by
visiting agents (typically retired estate managers) who make quarterly field
inspections to ascertain maintenance, yields and existence of assets financed by



- 16 -
SDB. Each project is visited at least once a year by SDB staff; nonperforming
projects are visited as frequently as necessary.
2.32      Operations.  SDB provides short- and long-term loans and, to a limited
extent, equity participation to private and government owned enterprises. The
institution also arranges/participates in loan syndications of large projects,
provides financial advice to state government on development projects, and
offers trade bill discounting and import financing.
2.33      Loan operations (Annex 3, Table 1), SDB's basic business, as measured
by net loans approved, reached a peak level of M$596 million in 1981. This was
exceptional because of inclusion of two large projects in that year. Loan
approvals declined in each of the following years not only because of the
absence of exceptional projects but also due to the reduction of state
government funding and a general downturn in economic activity during the
1981-85 period. Loan approvals did show a healthy increase in the first six
months of 1986 when they amounted to M$57 million (net of cancellation) compared
with M$39 million during the corresponding period in 1985. A sizeable portion
(approximately one third) of SDB's present loan portfolio consists of loans
(nominated) to state government projects financed from earmarked funds provided
by the state government. These projects are of high social or economic value
but typically may not be commercially viable at market rates of interest. As
the nominated loans (currently 17 in number) are negotiated with little or no
spread for SDB and as SDB has had little say in the criteria for selection, SDB
is pursuing the strategy to phase out the program. Accordingly, the proportion
of nominated to non-nominated projects in SDB's total portfolio has declined
from 67/33 in 1981 to 34/64 in mid-1986. As stated earlier, the State govern-
ment and SDB have recently agreed that SDB would not finance any new nominated
project. SDB will continue to supervise the existing portfolio of nominated
projects and repay the corresponding loans te the State government as it makes
collections from the borrowers. It will continue to get a small fee for this
service. These arrangements will be formally confirmed during negotiations.
The proportion of nominated portfolio in SDB's total portfolio is forecast to
decline to less than 10% by 1990 as the existing loans are repaid. SDB's
medium- and long-term loan approvals of non-nominated projects are currently at
an annual rate of M$120 million; the non-nominated projects now comprise about
two-thirds of the outstanding loan portfolio (June 1986). Shorter term loans
make up the balance of the loan approvals, and are mostly for complementary
working capital or for the financing of trade receivables and imports. SDB's
foreign currency loan operations (denominated in US dollars or yen) commenced in
1982 and as of June 30, 1986 these loans, which are all in the non-nominated
category, make up 29% of SDB's total loan portfolio.
2.34      Partial economic indicators were calculated on a sample of 13 projects
financed by SDB representing 22% of its loan portfolio. Approximately 10,400
new jobs would be created from the 13 projects at an average investment cost-
per-job of US$118,000. Investment costs-per-job were lower for agricultural
projects (7 projects, 5,500 new jobs at US$39,400 per job) than for manufactur-
ing (5 projects, 4,500 new jobs at US$220,300 per job). The cost-per-job is
high because of inclusion, in a relatively small sample, of some highly capital
intensive large projects. Economic rates of return for the 13 projects ranged
from 10.6% to 60.4% with an1 average of 24.1%.



- 17 -
2.35      Loan Syndications.  Up to the end of 1985, SDB had arranged and
managed 35 loan syndications totalling M$1,038 million of which SDB had provided
its own funds for a total of M$166 million or 16%. Syndication activity has
increased appreciably since 1983; 21 of the 35 syndications took place in the
1983-85 period. Increasing syndications is one way SDB has tried to deal with
'its resource shortage problem.
2.36      Equity Investments.  As of June 30, 1986, SDB had a total equity
investment portfolio of M$8.4 million, of which MS7.3 million consisted of its
62% ownership in Sabah Finance Berhad (SFB). SFB is engaged in short-term
consumer lending and has been consistently profitable. Operating results for
SFB in 1984 showed a M$2.0 million net income which accounted for 8.5% of SDB's
net income after tax on a consolidated basis, after subtraction of minority
interests. Operating results of SFB for 1985 also were profitable, although
exact figures are not available. SDB's other equity interests include a
M$900,000 investment in a construction venture which includes SDB's new office
building.
2.37      Portfolio Characteristics.  A total of 18% of SDB's loan portfolio is
short term (1 year or less). SDB's loan portfolio consists of 49% with
maturities of less than 2 years; 34% with maturities of 2-5 years and 17% with
maturities of longer than 5 years. A total of 13% of SDB's long-term portfolio
is still in the grace period. Lending terms for long term loans as regards
maturities vary according to the investment repayment capacity; it is normally
less than 10 years, including 3 years of grace for manufacturing, and 8-12 years
including 6 years of grace for agricultural estate development projects. The
average loan size of SDB's current long term nonnominated portfolio as of
June 30, 1985 was M$5.0 million (Annex 3, Table 2); however, 85% of the individ-
ual loans were less than the M$5.0 million average and only 3 loans accounted
for 41% of the loan portfolio value. By contrast, the average size of nominated
loans was M$17 million as of the same date. Sectorally, agriculture (including
forestry) accounts for the largest share in the total outstanding portfolio
(29%) followed by construction (23%) and manufacturing (17%). The "investment"
category accounts for 16%; this is all represented by investment in Permodalan
Bumiputra Sabah, the Sabah State owned investment corporation. Within the
manufacturing sector, a large share has gone to the Sabah Shipyard and to palm
oil processing. Loans to Sabah Shipyard and Permodalan Bumiputra Sabah account
for 601 of SDB's nominated portfolio. Details on the sectoral distribution of
the outstanding loan portfolio is given in Annex 3, Table 3.
2.38      Financial Structure and Performance.  SDB's balance sheets as of the
end of 1981 through 1985 are summarized in Annex 3, Table 4. During 1981-85,
SDB's assets grew at an average annual rate of almost 8% and amounted to
M$1,074 million as of December 31, 1985. SDB's long-term loan portfolio
(including current maturities) accounted for about 80% of total assets as of the
same date. Total assets were financed by current liabilities (32%), term debts
(55%) and equity (13%). Until 1982, when SDB took its first step to diversify
its funding base, the institution relied exclusively on the state government for
its resource needs. By the end of 1985, 60% of SDB's long-term resources were
from nongovernment sources as a result of SDB's success in raising long-term
funds both domestically and offshore. According to its guidelines, SDB's total
liabilities to equity (total debt to equity) is limited to a maximum of 15:1.



- 18 -
The actual total debt to equity as of December 31, 1985, was 6.9:1; its long
term debt to equity ratio was 4.4:1.  Its majority-owned subsidiary, SFB8  has no
long-term debt. SDB's liquidity position is satisfactory with a current ratio
of 1.4 as of December 31, 1985.
2.39      Financial Performance.  SDB's income statements, cash flow and
financial indicators are suarized in Annex 3, Tables 5 and 6 respectively.
Interest on loans accounted for 77% of SDB's gross income in 1985, while income
from deposits accounted for 17X. Since its inception, SDB has produced a satis-
factory return on its assets. During 1981-85, SBD's gross income on assets has
averaged approximately 8.52 as compared to its financial expenses of 62,
producing an average gross spread on assets of 2.5%. Net income after taxes and
provisions to shareholder's equity during the 1981-85 period has averaged a
respectable 9.11 in spite of a sharp decline in 1985 because of the need to make
substantial provisions. The ratio of administrative expenses to average assets
for the 1981-85 period has risen from 0.512 in 1981 to 0.84% in 1985. This is
because staff has increased and SDB now has its own building, but assets have
not grown in the last three years.
2.40      Quality of Portfolio.  SDB's portfolio status is summarized in
Annex 3, Tables 7 and 8. As of June 30, 1985, 56 loans or 26% of SDB's 216
loans were in arrears with payments overdue over three month's of principal
(M$58.2 million) and interest (M$15.3 million) for total arrears amounting to
M$73.5 million or 8.7% of its outstanding portfolio. The nominated portion of
SDB's portfolio had total arrears of less than 2%. The portfolio affected by
arrears amounted to M$125.2 million or 14.9% of the total Dortfolio outstand-
ing. Only 4 loans, 2 in livestock, 2 in logging, made up a total of 63% of the
principal in arrears. These 4 projects are in the process of being restructured
which would include additional equity investments by the sponsors.  Collections
of both interest and principal averaged over 80% in 1984 and higher in previous
years.
2.41      Provisions.  Total provisions for loan losses amolznted to M512.7 mil-
lion or 1.5% of total portfolio as of June 30, i985.  This level of provisions
is essentially the same as at year end 1984 (1.5%). However, at the end of
1985, the provision was increased significantly to M$22.9 million, following the
guidelines which BNM had issued for the commecial banks. SDB's management
believes that at this level, the amount for doubtful loans has been over
provided and a part may be transferred back to income in 1986.
2.42      Resource Position.  SDB's resource position as of December 31, 1985,
is shown in Annex 3, Table 9. At that date, SDB had long-term resources
totalling approximately M$900 million, of which M$137 million comprised
equity. Borrowings from the government accounted for about 42% of total
borrowings. Nongovernment sources include approximately M$250 equivalent in
foreign currency consisting of US$40 million in offshore raised Floating Rate
Notes plus US$42 million and Y 6 billion in foreign term lcans.  As of the same
date, nongovernment local currency resources amounted to M$118 million; these
were borrowings from commercial/merchant banks on a revolving basis. Prior to
1983, SDB had operated on a deficit basis as far as covering undisbursed loan
commitments, relying almost exclusively on the state government for funding when
necessary. Since 1983, SDB has tried to lessen its dependence on government



- 19 -
funding and to do its resource planning on a commitment basis instead of dis-
bursement basis. As of December 31, 1985, SDB's resource position showv
M$107 million in uncommitted resources. Most of SDB's liquid resources are in
the form of special deposits from the State government; understandably, SDB
wants to replace these with longer term funds raised from domestic and
international nongovernment sources.
2.43      Projected Operations.  SDB's annual loan approvals (Annex 3, Table 10)
are projected to increase from M$103 million in 1985 to M$187 million by 1990.
Agricultural loan approvals are expected to grow at 10 per year with lower
growth rates forecast for manufacturing (5.5%), construction and real estate
(3.5x). All other sectors including hotels and tourism and transport are esti-
mated to increase at only 4% per year. SDB has projected the growth of its
operations very conservatively because of the slowdown during 1984-85; in the
six months to June 30, 1986, operations were running ahead of the 1985 pace.
Based on the projected growth rates and taking into consideration the repayment
schedule of the existing portfolio, agriculture would continue as SDB's largest
loan portfolio segment, increasing from a 30X share in 1985 to 38Z by 1988. The
forecast assumes that there would be no more new nominated loans and, through
planned repayments, the nominated portion of the portfolio would decline from
its existing 33% of total to less than 10% by 1990.
2.44      Resource  Requirements.  Based on its projected operations and on a
commitment basis, SDB's requirements for new resources for the five-year period
1986-90 total M$565 million. For the 1987-89 period, tne resource requirements
for long-term loans would be M$357 million, of which about 30% or M$108 million
(US$45 million) would be met from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. The
balance of the requirements for the 1987-89 period would come from planned
equity increases, internally generated funds, other borrowings, and drawcowns on
existing non-committed resources.
2.45      Projected Financial Position and Performance.  Projected balance
sheets, income statements, cash flow statements and selected financial r,1ios
are shown in Annex 3, Tables 11-14, respectively. SDB's after tax net income
shows considerable improvement rising from the M$12.6 million of 1984 to
M$17.5 million by 1990 due principally to an increase in the gross spread from
1984's 3.02 to a projected 4.4% by 1990. Administrative expenses as a percent-
age of average assets would rise from 0.73% at the end of 1984 to 1.2% by 1990
due to SDB's occupancy of new larger premises in 1985. SDB's already modest
long-terir debt to equity ratio of 4.4:1 is projected to be reduced to 2.06:i by
1990 due to the planned increase of M$80 million in equity and the anticipated
K$40 million rise in retained earnings without significantly increasing
long-term debt. SDB's actual and projected long-term debt to equity ratio is
well within the proposed ceiling of 5:1. Because it will not be financing any
nominated projects, SDB does not anticipate any growth in its asset base during
the 1985-90 period. Instead, its major achievement will be to emerge as a
profitable, robust financial institution which will be less dependent on
government-nominated projects and government financing.



- 20 -
III. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Features of the Proposed Loan
3.01      Lending Terms.  The proposed Bank loans of US$20 million to BKPM and
US$45 million to SDB will be guaranteed by the Government. The loans will carry
the Bank's standard interest rate; the loan to BKPM will be made for a term of
15 years including three years' grace period, and the loan to SDB will be for a
period of 13 years including a grace period of four years. The long amortiz-
ations would allow the PFIs to use second generation funds and provide them with
a new source of funds.
3.02      The subloans will be denominated in Ringgit, and BKPM and SDB will
charge market interest rates which will be variable. The present market rates
are generally in 11% to 13% range, and the rate for loans under the New
Investment Fund is 11%. As brought out in paragraph 1.18, the freely determined
rates in Malaysia also incorporate the market's judgment of the relative value
of the domestic currency and expectations of future fluctuations. There will be
no subsidy either to the PFIs or to the final beneficiaries. The PFIs will pay
the current Bank interest rate, including the commitment fee plus a one time 1%
fee paid up front to the Government for guaranteeing the repayment of the
proposed loan and the availability of foreign exchange therefor. The onlending
rates will be higher than the Bank interest rate as they will, be determined on
the basis of the cost of funds plus a margin which will be determined in rela-
tion to market rates and the degree of risk involved for individual borrowers.
It is expected that the PFIs will, over the life of the Bank loan, get an annual
spread in the range of 3-4%. As for the final beneficiaries, they are expected
to pay real interest rate of about 9% p.a. on Bank funds; the real rate would
decline in line with a decline in international rates, given the openness of the
capital account of balance payments in Malaysia. To guard against the possi-
bility of the PFIs getting an unjustifiably high spread in case market interest
rates increase in the future, it was agreed during negotiatiorns that the
Government, the PFIs and the Bank will hold annual consultations, which will
take into account the cost of Bank funds, the market interest rates and
inflation at the time of the review. The amortization period of subloans would
depend on the nature of the subprojects financed; it is expected to average
about 10 years.
3.03       Free Limit, Maximum Subloan Size and Debt/Equity Ratio Limit.  A free
limit of US$700,000 equivalent has been agreed. With this free limit, it is
estimated that for SDB, the number of projects requiring prior approval of the
Bank would be 25% accounting for about 65% of the loan to SOB. The proportion
of the number of projects as well as the amount requiring prior approval of the±
Bank will be higher in the case of BKPM because it has recently raised its mini-
mum loan size to M$l million. However, it is not possible to give an exact
estimate because BKPM's portfolio is still very small and future size distribu-
tion of its projects cannot be proje.:ted from the past. An aggregate free limit
of 50% of the amount of the proposed Bank loans has also been agreed. To guard
against the possibility that the Bank loan would be committed to just a few
subprojects, it has been further agreed to limit the maximum size of the sub-
loans to 10% of the amount of the Bank loans to the two PFIs.



- 21 -
3.04      The long-term debt/equity ratio of each PFI will be limited to a
maximum of 5:1. At this level, the operations of BKPI and SDB will not be con-
strained in the foreseeable future if equity is increased as projected. The
proposed limit is justified given the strong capital structure of the PFIs and
the quality of their portfolio.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.05      Procureme*t.  International competitive bidding is not appropriate for
medium size private sector subprojects. Given the limit on the maximum size of
subloans, individual contracts will not be large enough for ICB. The PFIs will
be required to ask subborrowers to obtain as a minimum three quotations from
equipment suppliers and civil works firms before contracts are finalized, a
procedure already practiced by the PFIs and familiar to subborrowers.
3.06      Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed loan will be used to
finance the foreign exchange costs of the subprojects. Both direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs would be eligible. In addition to financing 1001 of the
direct imports, 601 of the cost of locally procured imported machinery (or
machinery fabricated locally using imported material/components) and 452 of the
cost of civil works will also be eligible. In the case of SDB, 35% of the cost
of commercial agriculture projects will also be eligible for financing under the
proposed loan. All the foregoing percentages represent the estxmated foreign
exchange cost components.
3.07      Reimbursements of expenditures incurred under free-limit subloans
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE%).  Do'umentation
supporting the SOEs need not be submitted to the Bank but wovid be retained by
SDB and BKPM and made available for review by Ban;. ;<upervisivn missions. In
addition, to facilitate disbursements, two Special Ac.ounts would be established
in a fully convertible currency in a bank, and on terms and conditions, satis-
factory to -he Bank. The authorized allocation for the Spetial Accounts will be
US$1.5 million and US$3.5 million for BKPM and SDB, respectively. Replenish-
ments wouLd be made quarterly or when the Special Account is .ivawn down by 502
of its inlitial deposit.
3.08      The proposed loan is expected to be committed in aoot. two-and-one
half years after its effectiveness, and disbursed in five. Estimated disburse-
ment schedule is given as Annex 4; the estimates have been prepared following
the Standard Industrial Development Finance disbursement profile for East Asia
and Pacific Region.
3.09      Accounts and Audit.  The accounto of BKPM and SDB are audited by
independent auditors who are acceptable to the Bank. The latest reports we-e
unqualified. Any change in auditors will require prior approval of the Bank.
The audit reports of BKPM will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the close of its financial year; SDB will submit its audited report no
later than nine months after the close of its financial year.



- 22 -
Project Benefits and Risks
3.10      Benefits.  The main benefit of the proposed project is that it would
provide long-term capital to two principal development finance institutions for
financing essentially manufacturing sector subprojects. As pointed out in para.
1.20, long-term capital for the high priority anufacturing sector is scarce and
the proposed project would ease that scarcity. Another major benefit from the
proposed project would be the opportunity for the Bank to work closely with two
new development banks on the refocusing of their lending strategies and on
upgrading their institutional efficiency. Together with the institutions
participating in the Small Scale Enterprise project approved in 1984, the Bank
would now be involved with all the major development banks in the country and,
thus, have the opportunity to further strengthen institutional arrangements for
providing long-term capital for investments. The project will be implemented
during the period when the Bank continues the industrial policy dialogue with
the Government as regards the incentives framework, streamlining investment
procedures and privatization. The 50-60 subprojects financed would generate
jobs and produce a wide range of products for import substitution as well as for
exports. The proposed project would have a positive impact on resource mobili-
zation in the industrial sector involving an estimated total investment of about
US$250 million equivalent. Based op each PFI's experience, the subprojects to
be financed are expected to be efficient in terms of resource utilization and to
have economic and financial rates of return of at least 10%.
3.11      Risks.  There is no major risk.  A risk exists that an adequate number
of eligible subprojects might not materialize in the forecast commitment period
if the current slowdown in the economy persists for a long time. However, the
pipelines of the PFIs have been reviewed and indicate that the risk of slower
then anticipated commitment and disbursement of the proposed loan is not unduly
high. A second risk is that the PFIs may experience financial difficulties,
loan portfolio deterioration or the inability to raise long-term resources.
However, this is unlikely as the institutions are viable, well-managed, ha-&-
conservative debt to equity limits and enjoy good government support.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with:
(a) the Government, BKPM and SDB on:
(i) the sectors which would be eligible for financing and those which
would be excluded (para. 2.02);
(ii) mutual review of interest rates on an annual basis (para. 3.02);
(b) BKPM and SDB on:
(i)  the free limit and the maximum size of a single subloan
(para. 3.03);
(ii)  a maximum long-term debt to equity ratio of 5:1 (para. 3.04); and



- 23 -
(iii) prior approval by the Bank for major changes in the policy
statements (paras. 2.07 and 2.30).
4.02      During negotiations, understandings were reached with:
(a)  BKPM and SDB on (i) the calculation of ERic for all above free limit
subprojects (pares. 2.10 and 2.31); (ii) the treoatmnt of environ-
mental impact in appraisal reports in all above free limit subprojects
(paras. 2.10 and 2.31);
(b) BKPM on (i) recruitment of additional staff (para. 2.08); and (ii) the
desirability of undertaking resource planning on a comitment basis
(para. 2.22);
(c) with SDB on discontinuation of financing of "nominated projects"
(para. 2.25).
4.03      Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions and agreements, Bank
loans of US$20 million for 15 years including 3 years grace for BKPM, and
US$45 million for 13 years including 4 years grace for SDB, both on standard
terms, are recommended.



- 24 -                               AMN  I
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Components of the Financial Systeo
(December 31, 1983-85)
1983                       1984                       1985
Total assets   Percent-  Total assets   Percent-  Total *asets   Percent-
(M$ mln)        age        (Ms mln)        age        (M$ *ln)         age
Central Bank                      14,860        11.6         15,927        10.8          16,525     9.9
Conmercial banks                  60,174        47.1         66,727        45.4         74,233      44.6
Finance companies                 11,360         8.9         15,224        10.4          17,833      10.7
Credit Guarantee
Corporation                        128         0.1            171         0.1             208     0.1
Merchant banks                     4,736         3.7          5,543          3.8          6,296      3.8
Bank Islam                           171         0.1            370         0.3             584     0.4
Discount houses                    1,716         1.3          2,106         1.4           2,830      1.7
Development finance
institutons                     3,789          3.0          3,825         2.6          4,091      2.5
Savings institutions
National Savings
Bank                          1,501          1.2          1,537         1.0          1,661      1.0
Cooperative Societies            2116          1.7          3,119         2.1          3,936      2.4
Provident, insurance,
and pension funds              23,697         18.6         28,014        19.0         32,523      19.5
Other financial inter-
mediaries /a                     3,469         2.7          4,523         3.1          5,731      3.4
Total                      127,717       100.0         147,086       100.0        166,451      100.0
/a  Including unit trusts, building societies and Pilgrim Fund Board.
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



AMUE I
-25- 5                                    bl-2
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
L  idius Rato of Selected Financial Institutions
as of December 31. 1954-85 and March 31. 196
(I P.a.)
Dec 31, 1984   Dec 31, 1985   Mar 31, 1986
Commercial Banks
By ectors
Agriculture                                 13.17            12.30            12.25
Mloing and quarrying                        12.76            11.98            11.82
Manufacturing                               12.70            11.50            11.52
Electtrcity                                 11.80            10.56            11.13
Constru.:Zion                               13.50            12.60            12.68
Wholesale and retail trade and
restaurants and hotels                    12.86           12.04            12.07
Transport and storage                       11.54            11.42            11.41
Financing, insurance, real estate
and business services                     13.40            12.55           12.53
Other services                              12.95            12.25            12.29
Miscellaneous                               11.75            11.23            11.14
Total                                12.81            11.96            11.87
Loans to Bumiputra                            12.91            11.86            11.95
Finance Companies
By sectors
Agriculture                                 11.77            11.61.           11.81
Mining and quarrying                        10.98            10.60            10.84
Manufacturing                               10.94            11.05            11.10
Electricity                                  9.04             9.00             9.02
Construction                                12.96            12.85            12.79
Wholesale and retail trade and
restaurants and hotels                    12.52            11.99           11.86
Transport and storage                       10.69            10.68            10.68
Financing, insurance, real estate
and business services                     14.61            14.32           14.25
Other services                              12.12            12.11            12.18
Total                                12.23            12.15            12 14
Merchant Banks
Call loans                                    12.55            11.96             9.825
Ter* loans
1 month to less than 3 months               14.60           13.38            13.63
3 months to less than 6 months              15.78           12.34            12.575
6 months to less than 9 months              12.35            12.36            12.38
9 sontho to less than 1 year                 9.30            12.80            9.25
1 year                                      15.05           11.75            11.875
Over 1 year to less than 4 years            17.10            11.25            11.25
Over 4 years                                12.90            10.00            9.5
Total Loans                          17.10            11.25            11.25
/a  Refers to overage lending rate.
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



ANNEX 2
- 26 -                           Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad
Statement of Future Operational Strategies
(Adopted by the Board on December 6, 1985)
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        This statement of operational strategies is for the next five years
(1986-1990).
II. FUTURE STRATEGIES FOR THE BANK
2.        Since its establishment, Bank Kemajuan has directed its financing
only to the shipyard and shipping industry. The Bank's participation in the
development of the shipping and shipyard industry is not only due to the
Government's directive but is also in line with the Bank's corporate objective
to provide long-term loans to heavy industries. The shipyard industry is
considered one of the fairly well established heavy industries in Malaysia and
catalyst to development by many countries. As such, it was logical for the
Bank with its limited funds to begin financing this sector. In future, the
Bank will continue to provide financial assistance to the shipyard and
shipping industry. However, the Bank has started to assist other sectors
too. The share of the Bank's financial assistance to the shipping and
shipyard sectors will therefore decline in the total operations. For 1986 to
1990, the allocation of financing to be extended by the Bank under the various
programmes is depicted in Table 1.
Table 1: BREAKDOWN OF ESTII'ATED FINANCING (1986 - 1990)
Facility                              Estimated Financing
$ Million Z Share
1.   Shipbuilding Financing                              250       25.9
2.   Shipyard Capital Expenditure                          16       i 6
3.   Shiprepairs Discounting                              25        2.6
4.   Bridging Finance (for shipyards)                     125      12.9
5.   Capital Intensive Engineering
Financing                                           300       31.1
6.   Export Credit                                       250       25.9
Total                                            966      100.0



ANNEX 2
- 27 -                             Appendix 1
Page 2
3.        The cumulative financing of $416 million for shipping and shipyard
sectors shall account for 43X of the Bank's loan portfolio during 1986-1990
period. The share of shipping and shipyard financing in the Bank's annual
loan approvals will decline gradually from 1001 in 1984 to approximately 41X
in 1990.
4.        Table 1 indicates a change in financing strategy by the Bank.  At
the en4 of 1984, the Bank reviewed its contribution to the development of the
industry and found that it had provided adequate schemes for the continuous
growth of the industry. Therefore, the Bank felt that it would be timely to
diversify its activities to other sectors. The government, since 1981 has
begun spearheading investment in the other heavy industries. The Bank, to
support the government's effort plans to finance the ancillary industries; the
spin-off of the heavy industries. The role of heavy industries in Malaysia's
industrialization programme has been clearly spelt out in the Fourth Malaysia
Plan Review and will be pursued under the Fifth Malaysia Plan. The major
objectives are "to reduce the dependence on foreign countries for the supply
of machinery and intermediate inputs (meaning more import-3ubstitution and
technological self-reliance), exploiting forward and backward linkages in
industrial development, creating spin-off effects for the growth of small- and
medium-scale industries and developing the technological capability of the
manufacturing sector".
5.        Most of the heavy industries are being undertaken and financed by
the Malaysian Government. The high cost involved in these projects is beyond
the financing capacity of Bank Kemajuan. However, the Bank firmly believes
that it can contribute towards promoting the develonment of the ancillary and
auxiliary industries.
6.        Thus, Bank Kemajuan decided "to extend and provide financial
assistances to the ancillary and auxiliary of the heavy industries" for the
next 5 years. Due to the wide scope of the ancillary and auxiliary indus-
tries, the Bank decided to give priority to the financing of engineering
industry, concentrating in metal, electrical and electronic sectors.
(a)  Financing of Capital Intensive Engineering Industry
Broadly speaking, the engineering industry can be defined as any
manufacturing activity which uses metallic materials or a
combination of metallic and non-metallic materials as raw materials
in the production process. There are several levels of products
sophistication begivning from input to high level assemblies.
At each level, there are several production processes for different
sectors. In other words, the coverage of financing can be very wide.
Due to the limitation of funds and the inexperience of the Bank in
financing the engineering sector, Bank Kemajuan decided to adopt a
strategy of financing initially the primary materials shapes and
primary component sectors. This would include foundry production,
forgings and stamping under primary materials shapes sector with
car/motorcycle parts, valve, gears under primary components. As the



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
- 28 -                            Page 3
Bank gains more experience, the financing facilities will be
expanded to other more sophisticated sectors of the engineering
industry. Various programes have been designed to accommodate the
needs of this industry. The Bank's lending to the engineering
sector over the next five years will be as follows:
Year                 Amount $ Million
1986                         50
1987                         50
1988                         60
1989                         70
1990                         70
Total                     300
This would constitute about 31X of the Bank's total loan approvals
during the same period.
(b) Financing of Manufactured Goods Exportation
Malaysia is known internationally as the principal exporter of
primary commodities namely tin, palm oil, timber and sawn logs.
Since the late 1970s, manufactured goods have become an increasing
important component of exports. At present, manufactured goods
account for 30X of total exports. Malaysia, being relatively
newcomer in the field of exports of manufactured goods needs to
intensify its efforts to search for new markets. In the wake of
increasing competition from other up and coming developing nations
such as Korea, Taiwan and Thailand, Malaysia has to offer an
attractive package deal in its export sales. This would mean that
not only must the quality of goods be assured and the pricing be
competitive but a a reasonable financing scheme or credit terms
should be provided.
Bank Kemajuan, in financing the engineering industry realizes that
the domestic market for the industry's product is limited. Thus
these industries will need to explore new market overseas for their
long-term surviva1. This will require the formulation of a vigorous
marketing strategy where Malaysian exporters of manufactured goods
will have to offer competitive trade terms inclusive of credit.
Such trade terms would certainly need the support of the local
banking industry.
Under the present financial system, there clearly exists a gap in
respect of export financing. None of the commercial banks provide
long-term loans and working capital for production purely for



ANNEX 2
- 29 -                             Appendix 1
Page 4
exports. Although overdraft facilities are available, these exist
as normal banking facilities, and are not specially created to meet
export needs. As a result of this deficiency, Bank Negara
introduced the export credit refinancing scheme. Unfortunately,
Bank Negara's export credit refinancing scheme has its limitation.
The tenor of refinancing which at present is 90 days is considerably
too short and the coverage of the scheme is more towards post-
shipment instead of pre-shipMent. A recent survey conducted by a
World Bank expert on export credit indicated that the Malaysian
manufacturers require pre-shipment financing in the form of working
capital loans for a longer repayment period.
Bank Kemajuan has already a long-term export credit scheme for the
shipping industry. To fill the financial gap for export credit,
Bank Kemajuan plans to extend its present export credit scheme to
the engineering sector particularly for the export of capital goods
such as palm oil mills and rubber processing plants.
By doing this, Bank Kemajuan is only assuming its role as a provider
of export financing which is one of the main functions specifically
stipulated in the Bank's charter and that is to encourage and
promote exports in the financing of domestic and international
trade.
The Bank is fully aware that export credit financing requires a
specialized operation and involves high risks. Therefore, as a
strategy the Bank shall develop the export credit programme on a
gradual basis by introducing schemes one at a time. Nevertheless,
the two forms of export financing, namely supplier's and buyer's
credit, will be introduced first, with emphasis on supplier's
credit. Under the supplier's credit, the Bank will also provide
pre-shipment financing to assist Malaysian manufacturers in their
working capital requirements specifically for the production of
goods for export. The various schemes will be introduced gradually,
depending on the industry's needs.
While the Bank is gearing itself for the export financing of capital
goods, the Bank is also studying with the Central Bank on export
financing (post-shipment) of more than 90 days for manufactured
products. If the funds are available for such purpose, this
facility shall be a permanent feature in the Bank.
It is envisaged that by three years, Bank Kemajuan would have
introduced all the necessary export credit schemes which would pave
the Bank towards an Exim Bank.
For the period 1986 to 1990, the Bank will allocate $50 million
yearly under the export financing scheme, which represents 26Z of
cumulative loan portfolio.



ANNEX 2
- 30 -                             Apkendix 1
Page 5
III. RESOURCES
7.        As stated previously, the Bank will extend $966 million in financing
during 1986-1990. To finance the various schemes, the Bank requires
additional funds amounting to $388 million either in the form of loans or
equity.
8.        Up till now, the funding of Bank Kemajuan comes from the
Government. However, it is anticipated that the Governmnt vill not be able
to provide the full amount of the Bank's future requirement. It is therefore
the intention of Bank Kemajuan to initiate a policy of self-reliance. The
Bank plans not to have too much dependence on the Covernment for funds but the
implementation of this plan vill be carried out gradually. Upon obtaining the
Government's approval, the Bank intends to raise the funds from the open
market; local and overseas inclusive of international financial institutions
such as the World Bank, Asian Development Bank and Islamic Development Bank.
9.        The Bank expects to secure $270 million in local currency and $118
million in foreign currency to meet its funding requirement of $388 million
during the 5-year period. In pursuance of this strategy, the Bank is
currently seeking a loan from the World Bank amounting to US$20 million.
10.       The Bank's capital will be increased as the Bank grows.  In this
respect, the Bank plans to increase its paid-up capital to $75 million during
the Fifth Malaysia Plan through the injection of new funds amounting to M$25
million and capitalization of present reserves amounting to M$10 million.
IV. CONCLUSION
11.       The Bank will keep these strategies under periodic review to take
into account significant changes in the overall national and international
economic and monetary situation, and the Government's policies and priorities.
AEP Projects Department
December 15, 1985



ANNEX 2
- 31 -                             Appendix 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DVEWLOPWNT FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Walysia Berhad
Statement of Operational and Financial Policies
(Adopted by the Board on December 6, 1985)
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        The Bank was set-up in August 1979 to achieve the following main
corporate objectives:
(a) to provide long-term loans and other financial assistance to capital
intensive industries in Malaysia especially high technology and
export-oriented industries and other sectors designated as priority
sectors by the Government.
(b) to encourage and promote exports in the financing of domestic and
international trade.
(c) to finance and assist the expansion and modernization of
enterprises.
2.        As a government-owned institution under the Ministry of Finance,
Bank Kemajuan operates with the given mandate according to policies formulated
by the Board of Directors and within the framework of the Companies Act under
which the Bank was registered.
3.        In pursuance of and to accomplish its objectives, the Board has
adopted certain operational and financial policies as described in this
statement. Revision of this policies statement can be effected by the Board
of Directors.
II. TYPES OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
4.        The bank's activities can be classified into direct loans, guarantee
and leasing facility.
1.   Direct Loans
(a) Shipbuilding Financing Facility - Malaysian Buyers
Term loans will be extended to assist Malaysian buyers in
purchasing ships built at local shipyards.



ANNEX 2
- 32 -                            Appendix 2
Page 2
(b) Shipbuilding Financing Facility - Foreign Buyers
The Bank will also provide an export credit facility for
foreign buyers interested in purchasing locally constructed
ships.
(c)  Shipyard Capital Expenditure Progr&mme
To assist Halaysian shipyards in improving and upgrading their
infrastructure, machinery and equipment, the bank will offer
long-term financing.
(d) Shiprepairs Discounting Facility
The aim of this facility is to provide short-term financing on
a revolving basis to enable Malaysian shipyards to undertake
ship repairs and maintenance for Malaysian and foreign
shipowners.
(e) Bridging Finance Facility
The Bank will provide short-term working capital to local
shipyards in order to ease their cashflow during the ship's
construction period.
(f) Engineering Financing Facility
The Bank may offer terms loans to capital-intensive engineering
projects particularly for new purchase or replacement of plant,
machinery and equipment. Engineering industries are to be
defined broadly for this purpose. Only projects which need
long-term financing will be financed by the Bank.
(g) Export Credit Scheme
To help reduce the financial burden of Malaysian exporters of
capital goods, the Bank may extend medium- to long-term
credit. This export credit facility can be made available
during pre- and post-shipment period of exports.
2.   Guarantee
The Bank will offer guarantees for ships acquired abroad by
Malaysian ship operators. This guarantee facility will cover both
new and second hand ships. Currently, the bank stipulates that
second hand vessels not exceeding 8 years shall only be guaranteed.
This age limit will be reviewed by the Bank when deemed necessary.
3.   Leasing
Leasing facilities may be made available to local shipyards and
capital intensive engineering companies for acquiring new machinery
and equipment.  The leasing period will range from medium- to long-
term.



ANNEX 2
- 33 -                             Appendix 2
Page 3
5.        In addition, the Bank may offer non-financial assistance by
providing its clients and potential borrowers with advisory and anagement
services. These would include advice and direct assistance pertaining to
project planning, implementation and management.
III. BASIS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
6.        Bank Kemajuan will provide long-term financial assistance to those
projects which are considered to be viable based on careful evaluation of the
economic, management, financial, marketing, technical and general factors, and
which contribute towards broader developmental objectives.
7.        In providing financial assistance to shipping, shipyard and
engineering projects, the Bank will conform to the policies and priorities of
the government. In project selection, priority will be given to high
technology and capital-intensive engineering projects, which utilize a high
content of local materials, machinery or component parts, and shipping
projects which involve the construction of specialized vessels locally. The
Bank may at its discretion change its priorities in accordance with the
policies and priorities of the government.
8.        An overview of the factors to be considered during project
evaluation is as follows:
1.   Economic
For a project to be economically justified, it must be socially and
economically beneficial to the Borrower and the country. Specifi-
cally, projects which produce products in demand, for export, as
import substitute or projects which result in foreign exchange
earnings or savings shall be selected. In addition, nationally
desired projects such as projects encouraged or given priority by
the Government or projects which involve the transfer of technology
to Malaysian will also be selected. To assess the economic merits
of projects, particularly import substitution projects in the
engineering sector, the Bank will undertake economic rate of return
analysis.
2.   Management
In selecting projects to be financed, management of the project
should be sound and competent. Basically, management should possess
sufficient relevant experience and qualifications. Assessment of
management's capability will also be based on their past
performance.
3.   Financial
For a project to be financially viable, the internal rate of return
of the project should be greater than the opportunity cost of
capital. Essentially, the Borrower should be able to service
interest and principal throughout the term of the loan.



ANNEX 2
_34 -                            Appendiz_2
Page 4
As a general guide, though subject to revision and depending on a
case-by-case basis, the average net profit margin should be about 10
percent and total debt to shareholder's equity be less than 10:1 for
shipping and 5:1 for engineering.
4.   Marketing
As for the marketing aspect, the distribution channels should be
strong and reliable and will be judged from past records of the
Borrower. However those projects with secured contracts, ready
buyers or established outlets will be generally preferred.
S.   Technical
Projects to be financed should be technically feasible. The
Borrower should possess the necessary technical expertise and
experience required for the project or have arrangements for
technical collaboration with foreign companies. Ideally, the
project should not be overtly dependent on an individual without
whom the project is bound to fail. For shiprepair and shipbuilding,
the shipyards should possess the relevant expertise, facilities an;
experience in constructing and repairing the particular type of
vessel.
6.   General
Among other factors to be considered for approval of financial
assistances by the Bank include the requirement for capital
contribution from project sponsors. For this, a minimum of 10
percent of total project cost is required under shipping projects
and minimum of 20 percent for engineering loans. This would be
subject to revision from time to time and depending on a case-by-
case basis. In addition, local participation ir the project should
not be less than 51Z and tenor of the loan should not be less than
five years.
IV. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL LIMITS
1.   Minimum Loan Amount
The minimum amount for a single loan is about $1 million. Same
limit shall apply for guarantees extended by the Bank.
A revision of the minimum loan amount will be effected when
necessary.
2.   Maximum Exposure
Total commitment in whatever form at anytime to a single borrower or
group shall not exceed 30% of Bank Kemajuan's shareholders' funds.
The Bank's exposure is subject to review from time to time.



ANNEX 2
35 -                            Appendix 2
Page 5
3.   Long-Term Debt/Equity Limit
The Bank will borrow long-term funds parallel to the nature of its
activities and would not incur consolidated lon&-term debts in
excess of five times its shareholders' funds. Guarantees extended
by the bank are treated as direct liability and shall be part of the
overall long-term debt!equity limit of ten times shareholders'
funds.
This limit may be revised from time to time.
4.   Maturities and Amortization
Repayment period is determined by the nature of the prcjects and
shall not exceed 12 years. Grace pericd is available up -o five
years but subject to the nature of projects.
Amortization of loans extended by the Bank shall be on a monthly,
quarterly or semi-annual basis depending on case.
5.   Lending Rates
The bank shall determine its lending rates based on the fot£lowing
formula:
Interest Rate = Cost of Funds + Overheads Cost + Buffer + Mar-gin
Level of margin shall be dependent on level of risk of project and
tenor of loan.
Based on the bank's current cost of funds at 6%. overheads cost ot
1%, buffer at 12 and margin of 0.52 to 3.5%; the lending races shall
range between 8.5Z and 11.5% as indicated below:
Level of Risk                                       TENOR
5 years and below    6 - 10 years        Above IC yeari
Low                                8.5%               9%
Medium                             9.5Z               10?                10.5%
High                              10.5Z               11                 11.5Z
The Bank will review its lending rate ita lending rates if and wher
any significant change in the cost of funds and overhead costs
exceeds the buffer level.



ANNEX 2
- 36 -                             Appendix 2
Page 6
6.   Security
(a) Collateral
Unsecured loans will not be extended by Bank Kemajuan. The
Bank shall accept collateral in the form of charges on project
financed and assets of borrwers, guarantee by owners and
assignments of pertinent insurances. International Bank
Guarantee, Government Guarantee or local bank guarantee of the
importing country shall be required for buyers' credit under
the export credit scheme.
(b) Project Financing Limit
For security purpose, the Bank will not finance 100% of the
project cost. The following financing limit shall be applied
according to type of projects and shall be revised
periodically.
(i)    Maximum 90Z of project cost (for shipping and shipyard
loans).
(ii)    Not exceeding 85% of plant and machinery cost excluding
land (for capital intensive engineering projects).
(iii)    Maximum 85% FOB value of contract (for export credit
scheme).
(iv)    Not exceeding 70% of project cost for second hand vessels
and 90% for new vessel (in the case of guarantees).
7.   Management Fee
The Bank may levy a management fee for advisory services rendered to
its clients.
This fee amount shall be determined from time to time.
8.   Loan Syndication
In instances whereby the project cost exceeds Bank Kemajuan's
exposure, the difference shall be syndicated from other financial
institutions. The Bank may charge an agency fee, the amount of
which is subject to determination.
9.   Reserves, Dividend
The Bank is not expected to pay dividends. Its annual profits will
be retained and subject to capitalization of equity base from time
to time.



ANNEX 2
- 37 -                          Appendix 2
Page 7
10.  Provision for Doubtful Debts
A 1X provision for doubtful debts based on balance of outstanding
loans shall be made by the Bank. This percentage will be revised if
necessary.
11. Money Market Operations
The Bank's money market operations shall essentially be limited to
the placement of its surplus funds with financial institutions
approved by the Ministry of Finance and will be of fixed tenure,
that is 3, 6, 9 or 12 months. The financial institutions approved
by the Ministry of Finance are designated commercial banks, finance
companies and merchant banks. In order to overcome the rigidity of
fixed tenor deposits, the Bank on the Board of Directors' authoriz-
ation shall purchase money market instruments such as negotiable
certificates of deposits, etc. with a repurchase obligation which
allows for more convenient planning of the Bank's liquidity and
optimization of returns on its funds.
12. Foreign Exchange Risk
Bank Kemajuan shall adequately protect itself against foreign
exchange risk arising from its borrowing, lending, investment and
other operations.
V.   ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING POLICY
9.        The Bank shall ensure that all accounts of its operation will be
properly kept in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act. A panel
of auditors shall be appointed to audit the Bank's accounting records.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING POLICY
10.       Bank Kemajuan will develop its staff to the highest professional
standards by continuous training and education to evolve an efficient and
sound organization. The Bank adopts a policy of recruiting and training fresh
and experienced graduates to equip them with adequate skills and knowledge.
VII. RESOURCE REQUIREMENT
11.       In carrying out its operations, the Bank shall rely on diversified
funding sources. The Bank expects to secure local resources from the
Government's allocation and the domestic open market. As a supplement, the
bank will seek to raise funds from international sources such as World Bank,
Islamic Development Bank, Asian Development Bank, etc.
ASP Projects Department
December 15, 1985



ANNEX 2
- 38 -                                        Table 1
MALAYSIA
DEYL0H33T FINUKCE PROJICT
Bank KewAlun Perusahan Malaysia (BIKPM)
Sumary of Loan (prationa, 1981-85
(K$ 000)
Years ended December 31               1981          1982          1983           1984          1985
Fb.   Amt.   No.   Ant.   No.   Ant.   No.   Amt.   No.   Amt.
Approvals
Term loans                       1   25,000   2   16,400   4   34,179   3   20,412   6   23,810
Working capital loans            -         -   2   22,700   2    7,700   3   10,100   4   10,600
Total Approvals                   25,000         39,100        41,879        30,512         34,410
Disbursements
Term loans                            14,000         7,450        18,036         17,900        23,473
Working capital loans                  4,54G        18,306         6,550          5,976         9,13
Total Disbursements               18,540         25,756        24,58f        23,R7h         32,656
Repayments
Term loans                                 -           228         1,778          4,199         5,116
Working capital loans                      -        18,146         9,391          2,095         7,430
Leasing                                   65           192            171            43              -
Total Repayments                      65         18,566        11,340         6,323         12,546
Loans Outstanding
Term loans                       2   15,599   2   22,821   3   39,105   7   52,820  12   71,177
Working capital loans            2   14,131   2   14,291   3   11,336   3   15,276   6   17,029
Leasing                          2       406   2       214   2        43   -          -   -
Total Loans Outstanding           30,136        37,326         50,484        68,096         88,206
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



- 39 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPffENT FINANCE PROJECT
bank Kemaluan Peruaahan Iflaysia (KPM)
Characteristics of Loan Commitm_nts and Outstanding as of June 30, 1985
(Ms '000)
Cualative
coiditreoto              OutstandinA
No.         mount         No.        Amount
By Purpose
Term lons                              17         117.973         8         52,524
Wbrking capital loans                   9          54,600         6         20,288
Others /a                               2           8,710         -              -
Total                               28         181.283        14         72,812
By Size
Up to 1,000,000                         4           2,822         2          1,359
Above 1,000,000 -  5,000,000           12          32,171         7          9,735
Above 5,000,000 - 10,000,000            6          45,610         2         12,960
Above 10,000,000                        6         100,680         3         48,758
Total                               28         181,283        14         72,812
By Sector
Shipping                               15          90,027         9         41,113
Shipbuilding                           11          82.546         5         31,699
Metal and engineering                   -               -         -               -
Others /a                               2           8,710         -               -
Total                               28         181,283        14         72,812
By Type
New projects                            1          10,000         -               -
Existing projects                      27         171,283        14         72,812
Total                               28         181,283        14         72,812
By Location (State)
Selangor                                4          26,236         1            535
Perak
Johore                                  3          41,000         2         29,269
Penang                                  5          21,427         3          2,556
Trengganu                               3          26,370         1          2,960
Pohang                                  -               -         -               -
Sabah                                   8          57,300         5         36,458
Sarawak                                 5           8,950         2          1,034
Malacca                                 -               -         -               -
Kedah                                   -               -         -               -
Negri Seabilan                          -               -         -               -
Kelantan                                -               -         -               -
Perlis                                  -               -         -              -
Total                               28         181,283        14         72,812
/a Guarantee facility.
Note:  0mulative comitments are from the year 1979 till June 30. 1985 and
include guarantee facility and leasing.
AEP Projects Department
December 15, 1985



-40-                                       ANNEX 2
Table 3
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPHENT FINANCE PROJECT
Lank Kameuan Perusahasn Malaysia (B3PM)
Summarized Balance Sheets as of December 31. 1981-85
An of December 31                             1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
Assets
Cur-rent Assets
Cash and bari balance                       71          86           61         199          R1
Short-tern lnvestment                   99,135    123.031    113,832    107,021          99,501
Term loans due within 1 year /a            235       1,802       2,486        4,680      24,462
Short-term loans                        14,131      14,291      11,336      15,276
Interest receivable                      4,006       3,145       3,234       3,498        3,248
Other accounts receivable                  754         975       1,459        1,484       1,304
Total Current Assets                  118.332    143,330    132.408    132,157    128,596
Fixed Assets
Term loans (due after 1 year) /a    15,770          21,233      36,245      47,614       62,862
Investment                               9,514       9,579      14,672       14,804      14,882
Property and equipment                     217         259          234         196         240
Total Fixed Assets                     25,501      31,071      51,151      62,614       77,984
TOTAL ASSETS                          143,833    174,401    183,559    194,771    206,58n
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Short-term borrowing lb                 1o,no0      10,000      10,00n       10,0no      13,525
Interest payable                            25          25           25          25         920
Other accounts payable                     106          42           45         160         60P
Tax payable                              2,340       4,096       3,501        3,880       4,575
Deferred taxation                            -          108          4b           -           -
Total Current Liabilities              12,471      14,271      13,617      14,065       19,628
LonR-Term Liabilities                    lO6,380    112,380    118,380    124,380    126,164
Paid-up capital                           20,000      40,000      40,000       40,000      40,000
Reserve                                      214       3,964        7,750      12,038      16,413
Undistributed profits                      4,768       3,786        3,812       4,28P       4,375
Total Equity                           24,982      47,750      51,562      56,326       60,788
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY          143,833    174,401    183,559    194,771    206,580
Guarantee                                         -           -       7,110       7,110       8,710
/a Net of provisions for doubtful accounts.
tb Drawn down balance of Bank Negara line of credit, payable on demand and borrowing due
within a year.
AEP Proiects Department
July 21, 1986



- 41 -                               ANNEX 2
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia (BKPM)
Summarized Income Statements for the Years 1981-85
(M$ '000)
Years ended December 31                  1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
Income
Interest on loans                       594    2,Q68    3,414    3,892    5,777
Interest on investments              11,794   11,528   11,445   12,231   11,644
Guarantee fees                            -         -        33        36    } 246
Other income                            105       167       221       115    }
Total Income                      12,493   14,563   15,113   16,274   17,667
Expenses
Financial expenses                    6,300    6,300    6,3no    6,300    6,505
General and administrative
expenses:  Personnel                  180       458      563       689       765
Others                    226       582      495       541       663
Provision for doubtful accounts           -         -       506       177      200
Others                                    _         _         _        _         _
Total Expenses                     6,706    7,340    7,864    7,707    8,663
Income Before Tax                  5,787    7,223    7,249    8,567    9,034
Less:  Taxation                         2,175    3,240    3,437    3,802    4,574
Net Income                         3,612    3,983    3,812    4,765  4,460
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



-42 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 5
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia (BKPM)
Financial Indicators, 1981-85
As of December 31                             1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
As 2 of Total Average Assets
1.  Gross income                               9.1      9.2     8.4      8.6      8.R
2.  Financial expense                          4.6      4.0      3.5     3.3      3.2
3.  Gross spread (1-2)                         4.5      5.2     4.9      5.3      5.6
4.  Administrative expense                     0.3      0.7     0.6      0.6      0.7
5.  Provision and taxes                        1.7      2.0      2.2     2.1      2.4
6.  Net income                                 2.5      2.5      2.1     2.6      2.2
Net lTcome as % of
Average equity                              15.8    11.0       7.7     9.0      7.6
Share capital                               18.1    13.3      9.5    11.9    11.4
Ozher Ratios
Income from loans as x of average
loan portfolio                             5.9     8.5      7.9      6.7      7.4
Cost of debt as % of average total
borrowings                                 5.6      5.3     5.0      4.8      4.8
Interest spread                              0.3      3.2     2.9      1.9      2.6
Book value as % of par                       1.2      1.2      1.3     1.4      1.5
Interest coverage /a                         1.9      2.1     2.2      2.4      2.6
Debt service coverage /b                     1.7      1.6      1.5     1.5      1.6
Current ratio                                9.5    10.0      9.7      9.4      7.1
Long-term debt/equity /c                     4.2      2.3      2.3     2.2      2.1
Total debt/equity                            4.6      2.6     2.5      2.4      2.2
Reserves and provisions as x of
the portfolio                             16.7    19.5    23.4    24.5    24.5
/a Net income before tax, provisions, interest and depreciation to interest
charges.
/b  Net income after tax + noncash charges + interest charges + term loan col-
lections to interest charges + repayment of term borrowing.
/c Including guarantees.
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



-43-                                 ANX 2
Table 6
KAIAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Kemaiuan Perusahbn Malaysla (BKPM)
Resource Position as of December 31, 1985
M$'000
Long-Term Resources
Paid-in capital                                                            40,000
Unappropriate profit                                                       20,788
Provision for doubtful accounts, depreciation and
other noncash items                                                       1,608
Term loans from government                                                139,689
Total Long-Term_Resources                                              202,085
Less:  Term loans outstanding                                               (88,208)
Other fixed assets                                                      (240)
Amount Available for Disbursement                                      113,639
Less:  Undisbursed approvals/commitments                                    (77,404)
Amount Available for Approvals/Commitments                              36,235
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



_44 -                                 ANNEX 2
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Kern am n Peruaahaan Maloysia (BKPM)
Summary of Proiected Loan Operations. 1986-90
(N$ 000)
Years ended December 31                    1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
Approvals
Equipment loans
Local currency                       120,n00  145,000  163,000  168,000  170,000
Foreign currency                      16,000   28,000   39,000   45,000   46,000
Total Equipment Loans              136,000  173,000  202.000  213,000  216,000
Working capital loans                   82,000   91,000   96,000  104,000  110,nOn
Total Approvals                    218,000  264,000  298,000  317,0no  326,0nn
Disbursements
Equipment loans
Local currency                       89,000  108,000  118,nO0  123,000  123,0On
Foreign currency                      10,000   20,000   20,000   25,000   25,000
Total Equipment Loans               q9,000  128,000  138,nO0  148,000  148,000
Working capital loans                   55,000   55,000   55,000   55,0nO   55,000
Total Disbursements                 154,000  1R3,eo0  193,000  203,000  203,nno
Repayments
Equipment loans
Local currency                        8,141   19,127   31,450   45,868   56,157
Foreign currency                           -        -       476    1,905    3,810
Total Equipment Loans                 R,141   19127   31,926   47,773   59,967
Working capital loans                   32,050   57,115   55,000   55,000   55,000
Total Repayments                    40,191   76,242   R6,926  102,773  114,967
Loans Outstanding
Equipment loans
Local currency                       154,794  242,280  326,929  401,921  466,216
Foreign currency                      10,000   30,000   40,029   71,898   92,383
Total Equipment Loans               164,794  272,280  375,957  473,R19  558,599
Working capital loans                    27,15   25,000   25,000   25,000   25,000
Total Loans outstandina             191,908  297,280  400,957  498,819  5R3,5QQ
Guarantees Outstanding                    18,710   28,710   38,710   48,710   58,710
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



-45 -                              AMWU2
MALAYSIA
DEVYLOPK IT FINACN PIOJECT
bank Kemaluan Perusahaan MalaYsia (MKIM)
_ mrized Pro ected Balanc  Shoets. 1986-90
As of Deeember 31                           1986    1  7      1988      1989      1990
Assets
Current Assets
Cabh and bank balance                    625       752       850    1,000    1,200
Short-tern lavestments               101,090   94,959   76,213   59,366   45,900
Working capital loan                  27,356   25,000   25,000   25,000   25,000
Interest receivable                    6,529    5,694    8,052   15,267   12,162
Other accounts receivable              1,428    1,528    1,628    1,728    1,828
Total Current Assets                137,028  127,933  111,743  102,361   86,090
Fixed Assets
Term loan                            154,553  242,280  326,929  401,921  466,216
Government securities                       -        -         -         -         -
Investment                             5,000    5,000    5,000           -         -
Foreign loan                          10,000   30,000   49,029   71,898   92,383
Property and equipment                   294       354       408       458       502
Total Fixed Assets                  169.847  277.634  381,366  474,277  559.102
TOTAL ASSETS                        306,875  405,567  493± 109  576,638  645,192
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Short-term borrowings (incl.
current msturities of
long-term loans)                    15,000   20,000   25,000   30,000   35,000
Tax payable                            2,772    5,548    6,824    7,912    9,383
Other accounts payable                     -         -         -         -         -
Total Current Liabilities            17.792   25,548   31.824   36.912   44,383
Long-Term Liabilities
Loans from government                189,032  253,188  306,113  349,792  378,213
Foreign loan                          10,000   30,000   50,000   74,092   96,284
Total Long-Term Liabilities         199,032  283.187  356,113  423,884  474,498
!Sulty
Paid-up capital                       75,000    75,00   75,000   75,000   75,000
Reserves                              11,638   15,050   21,831   30,172   39,842
Unappropriated profit                  3,412    6,781    8,341    9,670   11,468
Total Equity                         90,050   96.831  105.172  114,842  126,310
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY        306,875  405,567  493.109  576.638  645,190
Guarantees Outstanding               18,710   28.710   38.710   48,710   58,710
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



-46 -                                  ANNEX 2
Table 9
MALAYSIA
DEVYLOPYIET FINANCE PROJECT
Bank KEmal.a Perusahaan Malaysia--(BKPM)
Summarized Projected Income Statements, 1986-90
(M'000)
Years ended December 31                        1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Income
Interest on loans                           14,992  28,470  40,259  51,213  60,812
Interest on investments                      8,968   8,789   7,312   5,496   4,401
Guarantee fees                                  85      285      385      485      585
Other income                                   100      100      100      100      100
Total Income                             24,144  37,644  48,056  57,294  65,898
Expenses
Financial expenses                          15,500  22,386  28,875  35,649  40,012
General and administrative expenses
Personnel                                    821      863      9(6     951      999
Others                                       620      679      713     747      783
Provisions for bad debts                     1,050   1,387   2,396   2,365   3,253
Total Expenses                           17,941  25,315  32,890  39,712  45,047
Income Before Tax                        6)204  12,324  15,165  17,582  20,851
Less:  Taxation                                2,792   5,548   6,824   7,912   9,383
Net Income                                3,412   6,781   8,341   9,670  11,468
AEP Proiects Department
July 21, 1986



_ 47 _                                   ANNEX 2
Table 10
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Keuajuan Perusahaan Malaysia
Projected Cash Flow Stetoete ns 1986-90
000)
Years ended December 31                          1986      1987      1988      1989     1990
Sources
Nt  ncome                                      6,204   12,329   15,166   17,581   20,851
Nloncsh charges (depreciation,
provisions)                                  1,107    1,427    2,442    2,416    3,309
Subtotal                                   7.311   13,756   17,608   19,997   24,160
Increase in paid-in capital                   25,000         -         -        -         -
Drawdown on
Foreign currency borrowings                10,000   20,000   20,000   25,000   25,000
Government fund borrowings                 62,280   68,000   57,000   48,000   33,000
Subtotal                                  72,280   88,000   77,000   73,000   58,000
Collection
Domestic currency loans                     8,141   19,127   3i,450   45,868   56,157
Foreign currency loans                           -         -      476    1,905    3,810
Working capital loans                      32,050   57,115   55,000   55,000   55,000
Subtotal                                  40,191   76,242   8          102,773  114,967
Liquidation of short-term invAstments          4,540    6,131   18,746   16,848   13,466
Decrease in other assets                       9,804         -         -    5,000         -
Increase/(decrease) in liabilities             5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
Subtotal                                  19,345         11,3    23,74-,   26,848   18,466
Total Sources                            164,126  189,129  205,280  222,618  215,593
Uses
Xdaition to fixed assets (gross)                 100       100       100       100      100
Disbursements
Domestic currency loans                    89,000  108,000  118,000  123,000  123,000
Foreign currency loans                      10,000   20,000   20,000   25,000   25,000
WHorking capital loans                     55,000   55,000   55,000   55,000   55,000
Subtotal                                 154,000  183,000  193,000  203,000  203,000
Repayment of borrowings
Foreign currency borrowings                      -         -        -       908    2,807
Government funds                             3,627    3,845    4,076    4,320    4,579
Subtotal                                   3,627    3,845    4,076    5,228    7,386
Increase in other current assets               1,633      (735)   2,458    7,315   (3,005)
Increase in short-ters investments                 -         -         -        -         -
Increase/(decrease) in cash                      129       127       98       150       200
Subtotal                                   1,762      (608)   2,556    7,465   (2,805)
Decrease in other liabilities                    292         -         -        -         -
Tax payment                                    4,345    2,792    5,548    6,825    7,912
Subtotal                                   4,637    2,792    S,548    6,825    7,912
Total Uses                               164,126  189,129  205,280  222,618  215,593



- 48 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 11
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Bank Kesalaaun Perueshaan Malasia (BRPM)
Projected Financial Indtcators, 1986-90
As of December 31                             1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
As X of Total Average Assets
1.  Gross income                               9.4    10.6    10.7    10.7    10.8
2.  Financial expenses                         6.0      6.3      6.4      6.7     6.5
3.  Gross spread (1-2)                         3.5      4.3      4.3      4.0     4.3
4.  Administrative expenses                    0.6      0.4      0.4      0.3     0.3
5.  Provisions and taxes                       1.5      1.9      2.0      1.9     2.0
6.  Net income                                 1.4      2.0      1.9      1.8      2.0
Net Income as X of
Average equity                               4.2      7.2      8.2      8.8     9.i
Share capital                                4.5      9.0    11.1    12.9    15,3
Other Ratios
Income from loan as % of average
loan portfolio                            11.0    11.5    11.3    12.3        1*.4
Cost of debt as 2 of average total
borrowings                                 8.7      8.6     8.4      8.5      8.3
Interest spread (X)                          3.3      2.9     2.9      2.8      ?.1
Interest coverage                            1.6      1.7      1.7     1.6      1.6
Debt service cover                           2.6      2.8      2.9     2.9      2.9
Current ratio                                8.1      5.1      3.5     2.8      2.0
Long-term debt/equity                      2.4:1   3.2:1   3.7:1   4.1:1   4.2:1
Total debt/equity                          2.4:1   3.2:1   3.7:1   4.0:1   4.1:1
Reserves and provisions as 2 of
portfolio                                  7.0     6.1      6.,      7.6      8.8
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



- 49 -                              Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPNNT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Develop ent Bank Berhad
strate5y Statenet 1986-88
(Adopted by the Board of Directors on July 28, 1986)
1.   Operational Strategies
(a) The Ba?k will endeavor to keep its accounts in arrears at a minimum
level.-
(b)  SDB will strive to achieve a balanced assets portfolio.2/
(c)  Exposure to single customer SDB's total commitments in whatever form
to a single group of companies  is to be restricted to 30X    the
aggregate of SDB's paid-up capital and unimpaired reserves.-
(d)  Lending emphasis will still be centered upon agriculture projects.
Plantation crop cultivation in Sabah will continue to expand due to
governmental support, low lard prices ang abundant uncultivated
arable land and good growing conditions._/
(e) With the current depressed market situation of the Construction and
Real Estate sector, it is not expected that the relative share of
this sector in the Bank's outstanding loan portfolio would be
expanding. However, if justified the Bank will continue to support
individual projects in this sector.
(f) The Bank will continue to place great emphasis on supporting the
manufacturing industry by way of lending, iouity participation,
advisory services and feasibility studies.-
(g) The Bank will discontinue direct lending to nomoated projects and
consolidate/phase out existing nominsted loans.-
(h) The Bank will endeavor to expand its fee-based activities b
undertaking a wide spectrum of corporate advisorv services.-
(i) The Bank will continue to play a leading role in loan syndications,
either alone or in conjunction with other financial institutions.-
(j) SDB will place more emphasis on socio-economic impact of projects in
its appraisal of loans in line with its role as a development
finance institution. As far as possible and especially for large
projects, the Bank will institute the calculation of the economic
rate of return, foreign exchange savings/earnings, value added,
multiplier effect and employment generated in its appraisals.



AM=  3
- 50 -                             Appendix 1
Page 2
2.   Funding Strategy
(a) The current funding position of the Bank is that there is an excess
of long-term fund of $45,531,000 and on the other hand, there is an
overco itment of short-term fund of $55,039,000. It is expected
that this position vill be reduced or eliminated by 1988. The steps
taken in this direction will include the following:
(i) reducing new short-term loans
(ii) arranging with commercial banks to provide Bankers Acceptance
Facility for trade financing.
(b) SDB will continue to increase its paid-up capital from the existing
level of $120 million to $200 million in 1990.
(c)  The existing United States Dollar Floating Rates Notes will be
maturing in 1988. SDB will source new funds to replace this source
of fund.
Cd) SDB will continue to seek additional Revolving Credit/Overdraft
lines from financial institutions to meet its short-term funds
requirements.
(e) SDB will seek new long-term resources to meet its needs for long-
term lending. The sources to be considered in the future would
include World Bank, the State Covernment, domestic long-term
borrowings, borrowings in foreign currency from private sources and
loans from international institutions including another Loan from
the World Bank.
3.   Human Resource Development Strategy
(a) Sabah Development Bank endeavors to recruit only the most qualified
personnel to work in the Bank and retain sufficient staff of
sufficient quality to meet the Bank's objective.
(b) The Bank pursues a definite and planned training program for the
purpose of upgrading and developing its human resources. As a rein-
forcement to the Training Program of the Bank, SDB is also to
sponsor its staff for attachment to the various Commercial Banks and
Developing Financing Institutions in order to expose and to improve
its officers in their specialized areas.
4.   Research and Information System
(a) SDB will continue to strengthen its research capability and
activities to provide the basic data and information needed for its
efficient operations.
(b) SDB will improve its management information system by centralizing
information in the Research Division.



AMU 3
- 51 -                             Appendix 1
Page 3
To this end, the existing computer systems vill be reviewed and new
systems will be developed; new software packages will be acquired;
and additional terminals will be installed.
Notes to the Strategy Statement
1.   The total amount in arrears as at 31st August, 1985 was approximately
$100 million comprising more than 102 of total outstanding loan portfolio
interest on delayed payment. More than 505 of the total amount in
arrears relates to loans extended to the agriculture and timber sectors.
Approximately M$35.0 million of amount in arrears is from a single group
of companies which is currently undergoing a corporate restructuring
exercise involving the acquisition of a public listed company which will
in turn raise funds to repay the loans in arrears. It is anticipated
that the corporate restructuring exercise will be completed by the end of
1985 and at least half of the amount in arrears will be settled by then.
Another M$27.0 million of amount in arrears is from companies ultimately
owned by statutory bodies, some of which are currently seeking financial
assistance in the form of additional equity injection from the State
Covernment and the private sector.
2.   Of its net loans approved amount of $1.6 billion up to the end of 1984,
Agriculture sector accounted for the greatest share at 32.5X; followed by
Construction and Real Estate at 21.82; Manufacturing at 17.2%; Investment
at 7.1%; Electricity/Utilities at 6.9% and the remaining to Transport &
Storage, Hotel & Tourism, Mining & Quarrying, General Commerce and
Miscellaneous. Total loans approval of the Bank is expected to increase
to more than 2 billion by the end of 1988.
Between 1984 and 1988, the Agriculture loans are expected to expand at a
rate of 10% per annum accounting for 352 of total loan approvals of the
Bank by the end of 1988. Manufacturing, Construction & Real Estate
sectors are expected to grow annually at 5.52 and 3.52 and account for
20% and 18% of the total loan approvals. The Investment, Electricity/
Utilities, Transport & Storage, Hotel & Tourism, Mining & Quarrying,
General Commerce and Miscellaneous together would expand at an annual
rate of 4% to make up for the rest of the loan portfolio.
The above will result in an outstanding loan portfolio composition of
Agriculture - 38%, Manufacturing - 19.52, Construction and Real Estate -
19%, and others - 23.5%. At the end of 1988, the total loan outstanding
(after repayment) will be $851 million.
3.   Three groups of companies where SDB's commitments have exceeded the
single customer limit are statutory bodies and State Government agencies/
companies owned by statutory bodies where foreign currency loans and
nominated loans have been extended. In addition, the total commitments
to these corporations include self-liquidating transactions and short-
term advances. Two groups of companies belonging to the private sector
are currently undergoing corporate restructuring exercise to alleviate
their cashflow problems in order to repay some of the outstanding loans.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 4
It is anticipated that SDB's esposure to these groups can be reduced by
$35 million by the end of 1985 and a further $33 million by 30th June,
1985 through repayment, corporate restructuring and the phasing-out of
nominated loan.
4.   Up to the end of 1984, SDB's Agricultural loans to plantation crops
totalled M$174.127 million or 10.5Z ;of total SDB's loans. They were for
the cultivation of cocoa (15.3Z of total Agricultural loans); oil palm
(8.0%); coconut, tea, coffee, cashew nuts and others (4.2Z). With an
expected growth rate of 102 per annum, the Agricultural portfolio is
expected to account for 35% of the total portfolio of the Bank by 1988.
5.   In the past the Bank has encountered difficulty in getting such projects
to finance especially from the private sector due to the constraints
facing the industry. The constraints include poor infrastructure, labor
shortages and high cost of production. Of the total amount of $282.1
million approved for the sector, only 24 projects were involved. More
than 70% of these were extended to government sponsored projects. By the
end of 1988, it is expected that our ecposure to this sector will be
20%.
6.   Steps have been taken to submit a Cabinet paper to propose to convert the
special time deposits (STD) (tied to nominated loans) into term loans for
onlending to nominated projects on a back-to-back basis. Henceforth, SDB
will not be financing nominated projects as in the past. However, if any
nominated project is financed in the future, it will be done on an agency
basis for a fee without SDB assuming any risk in respect of such
projects.
At the end of 1984, the amount outstanding for nominated loans totalled
$292.949 million. By the end of 1988, the figure is expected to decline
to less than half and by 1990 to a quarter, or only 9% of estimated total
portfolio outstanding at that time.
7.   The Bank has in the past provided advisory services on corporate as well
as financial matters. They include mergers and acquisition advice,
financial analysis, bids evaluation, project feasibility studies, market
studies, cash flow management and forex management. Since 1978 up til
1984, fees earned by the Bank totalled $9.32 million or only 2.5% of
total revenue during the period. The bulk of fees earned was for loans
syndication/management accounting for 17.8% of the total fees earned.
8.   However, due to competition from other financial institutions in this
area of activity and the recessionary economic environment, the Bank's
syndication activities is not expected to grow as in previous years.
Since it began syndication activities, SDB has up to the end of 1984,
either by itself or together with other financial institutions, lead and
co-lead managed a total of 29 syndications worth $793.271 million. The
Bank participated an amount of $106.4 million.
November 13, 1985



ANNEX 3
- 53 -                              pp"dix 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
Policy Statement
(Adopted by the Board of Directors as amended on July 15, 1985)
I.   Objectives
1.   SDB is a public company limited by shares set up with the objective
of carrying on any and every aspect of development banking and to
assist business enterprises in Sabah in particular and Malaysia in
general.
2.   In achieving this object it will at all times endeavor to follow the
approved objectives of State and National economic policies.
3.   This will be accomplished by:
(i) building up a sound financial structure to enable it to carry on
its activities and acquiring the necessary funds with which to
provide the development assistance required by industry,
agriculture, construction, transportation and service sectors;
(ii) building up a sound organizational structure and employing the
high level of expertise which will be required to carry out its
functions efficiently;
(iii) giving particular attention to fostering a strong and healthy
entrepreneurship and capital market in Sabah;
(iv) providing as wide a form of assistance as necessary for the
fulfillment of its role as a development finance institution;
(v) establishing firm and growing relationships with other financial
and allied institutions, both domestic and foreign, with the
objective of enhancing its effectiveness as a development bank.
II. Activities and Scope of Operations
4.   Specifically SDB will unieriake provision of various types of
financial and other assistance to both public and private
enterprises by:
(i) medium- and long-term loans for fixed assets and development
expenditure, and where necessary short-term credits for working
capital purposes;



ANEX 3
-54 -                              iiini _ 2
Page 2
(ii) issuing guarantees, letters of indemnity and other necessary
forms of financial and nonfinancial assistance;
(iii) equity participation;
(iv) underwriting and syndication of loans;
(v) providing technical amn managerial services;
(vi) corporate advisory services;
(vii) promotional activities in the identification and development of
new projects.
5.   SDB will also act as financial intermediary for the State Government
of Sabah.
6.   In addition, SDB will undertake other relevant activities involving
participation in the development of the State of Sabah in particular
and Malaysia in general.
III. Priority Areas for Assistance
7.   SDB will give preference to enterprises which will effectively
contribute to the broadening of the economy of Sabah and national
economic integration. Priority will be given to:
(i) encouragement of Bumiputra enterprises;
(ii) agricultural development;
(iii) agro-based industries;
(iv) wood-based industries;
(v) industries with potential for exports or import substitution;
(vi) housing development.
IV. Criteria and Procedures for Development Financing
8.   SDB will make loan/investment decisions on the basis of sound credit
and investment criteria as follows:
(i) project must be financially viable, technically feasible and
economically sound;
(ii) particular attention will be paid to the quality and experience
of the management and the market prospects of the project;
(iii) audited financial statements will normally be required from all
borrowers for at least the three previous fiscal periods.



-    -5                            ANNEX 3
Page 3
Additionally, applications for project finance and equity
investments must be supported by feasibility studies and detailed
profit and loss and cash flow projections, together with proforma
balance sheets;
(iv) SDB will normally require borrowers to provide at least 401 of
the cost of a project but exceptions may be made for agricultural
and certain other projects where the percentage may be lowered to
301 and for Bumiputras to 25Z;
(v)  in accordance with sound banking practices, SDB will secure its
loans and advances with appropriate collateral from its clients
supported where appropriate by the joint and several guarantee of
the partners, directors and shareholders;
(vi) no disbursement will be made until sufficient financial data has
been provided and security documentation effected, unless prior
arrangements have been made and adequate alternative (temporary)
security provided.
V.   Operational and Financial Guidelines
9.   The normal minimum lending limit is $250,000.
10. SDB's equity investment in any single enterprise, excluding equity
investments in its subsidiaries or in rehabilitation projects, shall
not normally exceed the lesser of 0l of SDB's paid-up capital and
unimpaired reserves or 20% of the paid-up capital of the enter-
prise. SDB will divest itself of such holdings as soon as it can
justifiably do so, with a view to stimulating the local capital
market.
11. SDB's aggregate equity investments, excluding equity investments in
its subsidiaries or in rehabilitation projects, shall not exceed 25%
of its paid-up capital and unimpaired reserves.
12. SDB will not seek to control any of the enterprises in which it has
invested nor will it participate in the management of such
enterprises except for the purpose of safeguarding its interest.
13. Although SDB does not come under the supervision of Bank Negara, it
has adopted the same maximum exposure limit as the Central Bank has
prescribed for commercial banks.  Therefore, SDB's total commitments
in whatever form to a single enterprise or same group shall not
normally exceed 30% of the aggregate of the SDB's paid-up capital
and unimpaired reserves.
14. SDB will diversify its portfolio in order to maintain a reasonable
level of risk.
15. SDB will at all times endeavour that the maturities of its assets
are appropriate to those of its resources.



ANNEX 3
- 56 -
Page 4
VI. tesources
16. SDB is presently wholly-owned and funded by the Sabah State
Government which has comaitted adequate resources to enable the Bank
to function without excessive capital constraints. However, the
Management has endeavored to diversify SDB's resources and to source
its funds from both domestic and international markets.
VII. Foreign Exchange Risk Exposure
17. SDB is not allowed the risk of foreign exchange exposure, this being
passed on its clients or covered by other suitable means.
VIII. Accounting
18. SDB will maintain adequate accounting records to reflect its
business operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting
standards.
A qualified independent public accountant will be engaged on a
continuing basis to regularly audit SDB's financial statements and
operating figures.
IX. Provisions and Reserves
19. Initially, provision for possible future bad debts will be made from
annual profits until this has reached 3% of the overall non-
nominated loan/investment outstanding at year end. However, SDB
viill review annually the quality of its portfolio and maintain an
adequate level of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, including
equity investments.
20. SDB will transfer 50 percent of its net annual earnings to the
General Reserve Fund until such Fund is equal to the paid-up
capital.
21. SDB may declare dividends up to 50% of its net profit or 10% of
paid-up capital whichever is lower, if justified by circumstances.
X.   Organization and Staffing
22. SDB will continually strive to build, develop and strengthen its
management and staff and will aim to evolve an efficient
organizational structure. To this end, it will adopt and follow
fair and equitable recruitment, employment and compensation
policies; suitable training opportunities will be provided to
enhance the staff's professional qualifications and improve job
performance.



AMNNX 3
- 57 -                             Appendiz 2
Page 5
XI. Relationship with Government Authorities and Other Financial Institutions
23. SDB vill at all times seek to develop and maintain cooperative
relationships with Government bodies, and other Bank or non-Bank
financial institutions.



Table I
4ALAYSIA
DEVKLOPHENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
Sumary of Loan Operations for the Years 1981-85 /a
1981           1982             1983             1984             1985
No.   Amount   No.  Amount   No.    Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount
Loan ADprovals
Wbrking capital loans /b           8    52,872   16  201,926    5         17,100   17       55,863    -      26,150
Term loans                        57   617,022   26  146,202   44        332,380   29    112,945    -        89,143
Subtotal (gross loans)         65   669,894   42  348.128   49        349..480   46    168.808    -    115,293
Cancellations                      9    73,231    2    9,425    7         66,250    5       29,473    -      12,320
Total Net LoAns Approved       56   596,663   40  338.703   42        283.230   41    139,335    -    102,973
Disbursements
Working capital loans /b            -   233,386    -  268,388    -        150,793    -    153,384    -    127,680
Term loans                         -   393,788    -  255,370    -        185,597    -    152,384    -    159,832
Total Disbursements             -   627,174    -  523,758    -        336,390    -    30S,768            287,512
Reparnts
Working capital loans lb           -   176,857    -  231,924    -        162,693    -    168,048    -    127,411
Term loans                         -    43,204    -  155,560    -        115,388    -    192,303    -        55,001
Total Repayments                -   220,061    -        387,484    -  278,OA1    _     360.351           182,412
Total Outstanding
Working capital loans /b           -   144,313    -  180,771    -        168,877    -    154,213    -    154,482
Term loans                         -   491,816    -  591,626    -        661,835    -    621,916    -    726,747
Total Outstanding /c            -   636,129    -  772.403    -        830,712    -    776,129    -    881,22q
/a Loan operations include following foreign currency denominated loans:
1981       1982        1Q83        1984        1985
,Approvals
US$ t000)                  -     42,000      47,000       5,000           -
Ten ('000)                  -           -  6,000,000           -           -
Disbursements
USS ('000)                  -     40,000      15,000      14,606      15,nOO
Yen ('000)                  -           -    560,000  1,290,000    950,000
Repay ents
-us ''000)                  -           -       5,000       5,000      5,noo
Yen ('000)                  --                     -           -           -
Outstanding
USS ('000)                  -     40,000      50,000      59,606      69,606
Yen ('000)                  -           -    560,000  1,850,000  2,800,000
/b  Consists of revolving credits, loans for working capital requirements, bill discounting, trade receipts,
etc.
/c  Excludes interest in arrears.
AlP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



ANNEX 3
- 59 -                             Table 2
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bonk Rerhad
Medium- and Long-term Loan Size Distribution /a
(as of June 30, 1985)
Loan size range                     X of        Original amount of loan         2 of
(MS million)         Number        total            (MA million)               total
0 -   1.5           42            44                   26.3                    6
1.5 -   2.5            17           18                  33.1                     7
2.5 -   5.0            22           23                   83.2                   17
5.0 -  10.0             4            4                   30.6                    6
10.0 -  15.0             6            6                   71.6                   15
15.0 -  20.0             2            2                   36.1                    p
20.0-  50.0              1            1                   25.n                    5
50.0 - 100.0             1            1                   72.0                   15
Over 100.0               1            1                  100.Q                   21
Total              96           io0                 478.7                  100
/a Based on original amount of the non-nominated loan portfolio as of
June 30, 1985.
AEP Projects Department
December 15, 1985



ANNEX 3
-60 -                             Table 3
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Rank Berhad
Sectoral Distribution of Loan Portfolio as of June 30, 1985
(M? '000)
Nominated      Non-nominated        Total
portfolio        portfolio        portfolio
Sector                            Amount      !    Amount      7    Amount      7
Real estate - construction         26,846      9   164,276    31   191,122    23
Manufacturing (includes ship-
truilding)                       99,702    34    43,90A       A   143,700    17
Transport and storage              25,907      9    15,005      3    40,912      5
Investment                         p8,012    30    40,6Q5       8   128,7n7    16
Agriculture - forestry             23,744      R   218,610    41   242,354    29
Ilotels and tourism                16,374      6    30,191      6    46,565      6
Miscellaneous and general
commerce                         12,417      4    20,715      3    33,132      4
Totals                       2393o2   100   531 490   100   826i492   100
Staff loans, miscellaneous
credit facilities and
rounding                                                           15,R94
Outstanding Loan Portfo-
lio per SDR Ralance
Sheet of June 30, 1985                                       842,386
AEP Projects Department
December 15, 1985



- 61 -
IALA!SIA
DEWLOPWP6T FINANCE PEOJICT
Sebal Developmnt ank larhad
Sumrised  Balance Sheets as of December 31. 1901-05
r( '000)
As at Dscbez r 31,                                      1981           1982           1903           1984           1985
ASSPSS
Cvrrenr Aesets
Cash at bannf  and on hand                           3,148          1,292            973          1,562         7S 264
Securities                                         51,323         41,178          78,420        I09,?77      L
Due from time - short-torm                         95,IIO        222,200         146,50         14,3i0       + 54.376
Trad, fisann  VWid disocounttri                     12,486          9,328          9,175          3,602      1
Pro ect flnsnctng - short-term                    225,314        184,779         105,360       265,419          70,997
Less reserve for loan losses                       (1,143)        (1,206)         (3,097)        (3,748)          n s
Current iturities of lonx-tsrm
protect finncing                                294,61if       147,312        291,013         80,153
Arrears account                                     32,222         22,910         94,025         51,477     ' 266,565
Interest receivable                                 9,977          14,011        29,305         41,097
Other assets                                           3R7            620          1,769          2,951
Total Current Assets                             724,200        642,424        753.393        702.440        467,162
Noncurrent Assets
Time deposits                                       44,500              -          2,50C-
Project finncing - long-term
Nostnated                                              -       286,t05        380,121        279,437
Non-nominsted                                   385,960        183,116        115,R92         81,238        603,95Q
Non-nominated (FC)                                     -        94,t40        122,2R3         8c,440      1
Total Project Financint  - Long-term             385,960        563,161        618,296        450,115        6o3.q9S
Less reserve for loan losses                        11,720)        (4,R33)        (6,701)        (8,62P1      (22,R4,S
.ess current maturities                          (294,6t6)    (147,312)        (291,813)       (80,153)           n.a.
Net Project Financing                             Ag,624        4!1,01f,       31967A,        361,334        __!L,2"
Staff loans                                          1,649          2,711          4,503          6,l'4
Eq.ttv investment                                    R,!3'          R,)3           7,97Z 2,092                   0,R s
Total Non:urr. , AGsets                         1. 143,194      421,860        334, 57        37 5P13        607,20'
Fixed assets                                               7%.             976            973                       K' !'7,-0
Intangible assets                                          42)          2,31Q          2,276          2,660               -
TOTAL ASSE'S                                     . ±., 2 94                  1                MAI AO 1,I.l,40$   ,091,6O'  3160
IABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Tim  deposits                                     46W  Q9         501,569        28A,469q       245,30        2  ,sr
Interest payable                                    32,26.         32,446         39,6e9         30,504       2
Other short-tesr  liabilties                         0,h1'         22,n42         15,n39         34,4?8         48, 22
Current mturities of term liabilities                    -          1,204            579          1,477         11,724
Total Current Liabilities                        Vf,.471        557,261        363  36        311,760        342,502
Term Liabilities
Special time deposits                             237,h62        226,232        352,643        273,997         161,210
Revolving loans                                          -              -         50,000        114,900
Foreign cutrencv borrowings                              -              -         26,803         71,076     1 353,20r
Floating rate notes                                      -        90,040         93,400         96,40n    )
Government loans                                    71,555         78,405         74,060         R0,271         Pr," -4
Tot&, Ters Liabilities                           309,217        395,077        602,986        636,644        59S,284
uces current mturities                                   -         (1,204)          (579)        (1,477)             -
Net Teri Liabilities                             309,2;17       391673         602 407        635, 17        595,2P4
Provision for retireent gratuitfee                        75            117            162            22n               -
Total LIabilities                                815,762        951.251        966.305        947,147        937,'86
EguttY
Comon stock                                        45,nnr        1no,0no        100,0f!        110,000        II'¾)O"
General reserve                                          -              -         15,O00         1 5,0nC       26,50l
Unappropriated  Profits                              *,937         16,l29         !,Ion          9,4S71
Total Equity                                      '3 '37        116 328        125,100        134.457        136 583
TOTA.1 LlABILITIFS ANT) FCIT                     8 29         1 067 579      1.091 405      1.0O1,6n4      I 74,369
AZP Projects Departmnt
July 21, 1906



-62 -                               ANNEX 3
Table 5
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah DevelopMent Bank Berhad
Summarized Income Statements for the Tears 1981-85
(X4$ °°°O)
Year ended December 31,                     1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Income
Interest on loans and advances          45,050  63,638  62,752  73,568  68,313
Income on investments                       394     260      260      259     637
Interest on deposits                     23,608  18,044  20,307  17,512  15,284
Guarantee                                 1,351   2,257   3,031   2,429 ' 3,660
Other income                                267     267      321      215 }
Total Income                         70,670  84,466  86,671  93,983  87,894
Expenses
Interest on foreign
currency borrowings                         -   8,625   9,687  15,619 1
Tnterest on domestic currency                                             }64,245
borrowings and deposits                51,974  49,338  '3,251  44,891 }
General and administrative expenses    3,370   4,915   6,301   6,149   8,962
Provisions for doubtful accounts          1,908   3,176   4,559   1,778  10,519
Miscellaneous and others                    936   1,065   1,489   2,259          -
Total Expenses                        58,188   67,119  65,287  70,696  83,726
Income Before Tax                    12,482  17,347  21,384  23,287   4,168
Less:  Taxation                             6,795   9,556   9,612  10,630   2,042
Net Income                             5,687   7,791  11,772             2,126
Appropriati'1
Dividends                                     -        -   3,000  13,300    n.a.
Reserves                                      -        -  15,000        -    n.a.
Unappropriated retained earnings          2,850   8j537  16,328  10,100    n.a.
Total                                  8,537  16,328  10,100   9,457    n.a.
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



- 63 -                              ANMNE  3
Table 6
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMfENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
Financial Indicators for the Years 1981-85
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985
As 2 of Total Average Assets
1.  Gross income                         9.68      8.72     R.02      8.65      8.15
2.  Financial expense                    7.16      6. 03    4.99      5.o7      5.96
3.  Gross spread (1-2)                   2.52      2.69     3.03      2.98      2.19
4.  Administrative expense               0.51      0.57     0.66      0.73      0.84
5.  Provision                            0.26      0.33     0.42      0.16      0.98
6.  Net income                           0.78      0.80      1.09     1.16      0.20
Net Income as x of
Average equity                        '3.17      9.17     9.75      9.75      1.57
Share capital                         12.64      7.79    11.77    11.51       1.93
Other Ratios
Income from loans as x cf
average loan portfolio /c           10.59     9.22      8.09      9.40      8.37
Cost of debt as 2 of average
total borrowings                     5.09     9.8      7.78      9.80      n.a.
Interest coverage /a                   1.29      1.36     1.49      1.42      1.20
Debt service coverage /b               3.87      4.28     3.24      1.27      n.a.
Current ratio                          0.85     0.89      1.27      1.99      1.36
Long-term debt/equity /d               1.34      1.45     2.00      2.69      4.36
Total debtiequity                     15.24     8.18      7.72      7.04      6.87
Provisions as % of the
portfolio                            0.45     0.82      1.28      1.59      2.95
/a  Net income after tax, provisions, interes. and depreciatlon to intxrest
charges.
/b  Net income after tax + noncash cbarges + interest charges + term loan col-
lections to interest charges + repayment of term borrowing.
/c  Include loans and advances outstanding and bill'  discounted.
/d  Excludes from long-term debt special time deposits which are linked to
nominated projects.
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
Akalysis of Arrears for the Years 1981-84 and First Half 1985
(M$'000)
Principal
No. of   Total loans                    Arrears                    affected by
clients  outstanding  Principal  Interest  Total  BI7A (T            arrears    C/A (x)
(A)                               (B)                    (C)
Nominated Portfolio
1981                           1       399,862            -           4         4     -          22,082        5.5
1982                          2        410,963          172         145       317    0.1          8,672        2.1
1983                          5        429,990      48,878       2,371   51,249   11.9           64,143       14.9
1984                          5        292,949       1,094       3,090    4,184    1.4           29,322       10.0
19o5 1st half                 4        288,855       2,936       2,539    5,475    1.9           34,446       11.9
Non-uominated Portfolio
1981                         12        236,267       2,589        2,302    4,891    2.1          33,325       14.1
1982                         15        361,440       6,479       2,812    9,291    2.6           23,017       6.4
1983                         23        400,721      23,059       6,598   29,657    7.4           62,650       15.6
1984                         24        483,180      43,459       8,465   51,924   12.0           84,505       17.5
1985 1st half                28        553,531      55,253      12,763   68,016   12.3           90,758       16.4
Total Portfolio
1981                         13        636,129       2,589       2,306    4,895    0.8           55,407        8.7
1982                         17        772,403       6,651       2,957    9,608    1.2           31,689        4.1
1983                         28        830,711      71,937       8,969   80,906    9.7          126,793       15.3         S.
1984                         29        776,129      44,553      11,555   56,108    7.2          113,827       14.7         a
1985 lot half                32        842,386      58,189      15,302   73,491    8.7          125,204       14.9
AEP Projects Department
December 15, 1985



MALAYSIA
DEVFLOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
Analysis of Loans in Arrears as of June 30, 1985
(M$ -0003)
3 to 12 months      I to 2  er        - Over 2 years            Total           Percentage of
No. of  Ant. in    o. o       t.  n    o. o       t. n   lIn                     o iEir'YiLit
Sector and subsector            loans   arrears   loans   arrears   loans   arrears   loans   arrears   portfolio  arrears
Term Loans
Agriculture - Forestry
oil paln                       8      2,748        7        7R6       2        281        17    3,A17
Cocoa                          2        281             -             -          -         2      281
Logging                        3        480        -          -       -                    3      4RO
Livestock                      2    12,085         2     1,455        -          -         4   13,540
Other agriculture              2      6,037        -          -       -          -         2    6,037                                       cr
Subtotal                     17    21,631         9     2,241        2        2R3        28   24,15S        2.4         33
Construction                     4      9,820        1        14S       -          -         5    9,965         1.2        14
Manufacturing                    6      1,583        1      1,531        2       811         9    5,925        0.7          R
Miseellaneouts                   6      2,3R7        2        969        1     2,131         9    5,4R7        0.6           7
Subtotal term loans          33    37,421        13     4,RR6        5      1,22         51   45.5.2 5.4                62
Working Capital Loans
Agriculture - Forestry           2    26,463         -                  -          -         2   26,463         3.1        16
Construction                     1        282        -          -       -          -         1       282        -           -
Manufacturing                     3     1,214        -          -       -          -         3    1,214        0.2           2
Subtotal working
capital loans               6    27,959        -                              -         6   27,959        3.3         3R
Total Loan Portfolio         39    65,380        13     4,86         5                   57   73,491        4.7        100
-  w
Percentage of arrears           68         89       23          7       q          4       inn       inn        -           -
AEP Projects Department
December 15, 1985



66 -                                4    4
MALAYSIA
DEVZLOPIENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabab Development Bank Berhad
Resource Position as of December 31. 1985
M1 '000
A. Lona-Tern
-in capital                                                     110,000
Retained  arnings                                                     26,583
Subtotal                                                   136.583
Mon cash Items
(Accumulated Depreciation, Provision, etc.)                           24,496
Loans from Gov't (net of repayment)                                     79,194
Other long-tern loans:
xevolVIng Loan i Aseasb $50 million)                                  49,667
Revolving Loan (BMB $50 million)                                      38,200
OP Evergreen facility (Lloyds S30 million)                            30,000
US Dollar Borrowings                                                  92,245
Japanese Yen Borrowings                                               57,792
FRN                                                                   97,100
Deposit. (STD)                                                       295,498
Subtotal                                                   764,192
Total Long-Term Resources                                  900,775
Less
=oans disbursed and outstanding (Long-term)                            588,360
Equity Investment                                                      8,364
Other fixed and long-term assets                                       5,447
Su,btotal                                                  602,171
Resources available for disbursements                                  298,604
Less:  Undisbursed loan approvals (nominated & won-nominated)           53,139
Resources available for approval                                       245.465
B. Short-Term
Deposits (Toanable portion)                                             82,800
Short-tern borrowings                                                   21,000
Total Short-Term Resources                                 103.800
Less:  Total outstanding portfolio (short-term)                        182,896
Resources Available for Disbursement                       (79,096)
Less:  Outstanding (short-tern)                                         58,798
Resources available for further commitments                           (137.894)
C.  Total Resources available for approval                                 107,571
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



- 67 -                                       Afu    3
rable 10
MALAYSIA
DEMVLOPMENT FINANC PROJECT
Sabah Devel.ment Bank erbad
Prolected Loan Ws  ri . 186-O   /a
1986           1967         1988          1989         1990
Loan Approvals
Working capital loans /b               31,274       34,212       45,433        46,976       49,637
Term lo3ns                            110,571      111,888      115,277       129,805      137,751
Subtotal (gross loans)            141,845      146,100       160,710      176,781      187,388
Cancellations                           7,092        7,305        8,036         8,839        9,369
Total Net Loans Approved          134,753       138,795      152,674      167,942       178,019
Disbursements
Working capital loans /b               29,192       35,553       46,010        46,570       50,207
Term loans                            68,114        82,957      107,358       108,664      117,151
Staff loans                             1,542        1,805        2,049         2,298        2,570
Total Disbursements                98,848       120,315      155,417      157,532       169,928
Repayments
Working capital loans lb               32,228       17,450        19,173       24,222       32,15'
Term loans                            83,543        96,493      139,464       147,932      147,PSQ
Staff loans                             1,095        1,337        1,S56         1,783        2,r2s
Total Repayments                  116,866       115,280      160,193      173,937       182,044
Total Outstanding
Working capital loans /b              1R8,098      206,201      233,038       255,386      273,434
Term loans                           652,891       639,355      607,248       567,980      537,272
Staff loans                             9,382        9,R50       10,344        10,859       1J,4(n
Total Outstanding /c              850,371      855,406       850,630      834,225      822,1nQ
/a Loan operations include following foreign currency donominated loans:
1986            19R7             1988             1989            1990
Approvals
uss (T00o)            3,443            5,013          12,903            7,370              83r
Yen ('000)                -                -                -               -
Disbursements
USS ('000)            3,433            5,013          12,903            7,730              830
Yen ('000)        1,353,000                -                -               -
Rieparurnts
US$ ( 000)            3,443            5,013          20,520           14,934            A,444
Yen ('000)                -                -       1,080,000        1,080,000       1,080,000
Outstanding
US$ ( 000)           81,327          81,327           73,710           66,096           58,482
Yen ('000)       6,000,000        6,000,000        4,920,000        3,840,000       2,760,0nn
/b Consists of revolving credits, loans for working capital requirements, bill
discounting, trade receipts, etc.
/c Excludes interest in arrears.
AlP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



- 68 -                                          A
MALAYSIA
DEMLOMNT FINACE PROJZCt
Sabah Deweloment Bank ehrbed
Projected Belance Sheets. 1486-90
(S '000)
As at December 31                                           1986        1987        1988        1989       1990
A5SUTS
e              ud bcnk\balance                               750         711         970         700        700
S rittie                                                  58,000      53,000     50,000      48,000      43,000
Due from  tie - short-term                               148,500    169,000    179.500    142,600    127,600
Tred  flmncing  nd diecounting                            22,248     22,922      23,684      24,355      25,116
Project financing - short-term non-nominated              86,057      93.998    103,497    110,523    121,149
Less reserve for loon losses                              (3,792)    (4,018)    (4,289)    (4,489)    (4,793)
Current _turities of long-term project financing          92,497    134,107    141,117    145,052    140,092
Arrears account                                           40,720      44,324     48,623      51,827      56,656
laterest receivable                                       37,403      37,595     3R,R70      37,731      38,714
Others                                                       780         705       1,378         805        804
Total Current Assets                                 483.161    552,344    583,290    557,104    549,0RF
Long-Term Aseets
Project financing - long-term
leodnated                                             179,081    147,607    129,183    110,059         78,939
lon-nouinated                                         25A,171    281,9a3    310,490    331,567    363,596
Non-novinated (F/C)                                   254.712    254,712    224,870    195,035    165,2M0
Total Project Financing                              691,964    684,312    664,543    636,661    607,735
Less reserve for loan losses                             (11,S40)   (12,076)   (12,046)   (11,849)   (11,P98)
Less current  aturities                                  (92,497)  (134,107)  (141,117)  (145,0S2)  (140,')92)
Niet Project Financing                               SA7,q27    538.129    511,38r 480     97-    455,745
Staff loans                                                9,382       9,d50      10,343     10,359      11,4."
Equity investment                                          8,112      10,112      10,112     11,;        1,11
Total Long-Term Assets                               605,421    558,091    531,835    5C3,231    48;,2
Fixed assets                                                 1,576       1,3R5         964        '58R       1   61
Intangible aesees                                            1,446         837         262      2,C28       1,569
TOTAL ASSETS                                       1,091.606  1,112,657  1,116,351  1,063,121  1, 12,1
LJIlLlTIES AND EQUIT
Current Liebiltties
Time deposits (current)                                  172,125    154,913    139,421      125,479    112,Q11
Short-term borrovings                                     20,000      28,000     32,000      36,00(      40,noo
Current maturities of long-term borrowings                 4,635      38,062     67,666      67,647      34,537
Interest payeble                                          42,756     42,951      42,200      38,420      35,3PR
Others                                                    16,719      16,424      18,385     16,328      19,701
Total Current Liabilitie                             256,235    280,350    299,672    283,874    242,557
LomaTere Liabilities
Specie]l time deposits                                   179,081    147,607            -           -          -
Revolvings loans                                         117,200    116,533    116,200    116,200    116,200
Foreign currency borrowings                              154,712    154,712    124.37n       95,n35      65,200
Floating rete notes                                      100,000    100,000    100,000
Governet loans                                            81,992      R2,264    211,515    IQ3,180    163,42A
World Snk and other term loans                            30,000      75,000    120,000    202,000    210,000
Total Term Liabilities                               662.985    676,116    672,085    606,415    554,826
Less current mturities                                    (4,635)   (38,062)   (67,666)   (67,647)   (34,537)
Total Long-Term Liabilities                          6M.350    638,054    604.419    538,768    52n.2P9
NU-Up cepital                                              140,000    150,000    160,000    180,0oo       200,000
Degery.                                                   33,000      33,000     43,000      43,000      53,000
Ihappropriate profits                                      4,021      11,253      0,2hO      17,47Q      16,1R7
Total Equlty                                         177,021    194,253    212.26F    240,479    269,187
ML  LIAWLTU Me  uTt                                1,0*1.606  1.112,657  IS116.151  1,063,121  1,032,031
AD Projects Department
July 21, 1986



- 69 -
Table 12
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
Projected Income Statements, 1986-90
(r '00)
Year ended December 31,                             1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Income
Interest on loans and advances                  80,182    81,781    82,863    82,961    84,586
Interest on investments                             608        608        608        608        608
Interest on deposits                            17,615    19,035    19,725    16,334    14,459
Guarantees                                        6,029      6,550      7,169      7,636      8,531
Other income                                      2,194      2,076      2,112      2,076      2,073
Total Income                                106,628   110,050   112,477   109,615   110,257
Expenses
Interest on foreign currency borrowings         23,704    29,217    31,209    28,942    27,325
Interest on domestic currency borrowings    44,485    41,009    39,011            37,477    36,299
General and administrative expenses              10,119    10,539    10,99Q    11,577    12,261
Provision for doubtful accounts                      28        762        240          3        354
Total Fxpenses                               7R,336    81,S27    81,459    77,999    76,23A
Income Before Tax                            28,292    28,523    31,018    31,616 34,019
Less:  Taxation                                    13,594    14,058    15,0O4       15,178     16,603
Net Income                                   14,698    14,465    16,014       16,438    17,416
Appropriation
Dividends                                         7,349      7,233     8,n07       8,219      9,708
Reserves                                         10,000          -    10,000           -    10,000
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



_ 70 -                               ANNEX 3
- 70 -                                 Table 13
MALAYSIA
DEV=LOPFHET FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah DeveloPent Bank Berhad
Projected ash  l Stateents. 1986-90
;WUUU
Year ended December 31,                               1986       1987     1988      1989       1990
Sourcea of Funds
Income berore Interest and tax                      96,479   98,748  101,238   98,033   97,441
Noneash eharges                                       1,268    1,836    1,147   (1,533)   1,127
Increase in:  Short-term borrowing                        -    8,000    4,000    4,OO    4,000
Other payablae                         4,269        -    1,549        424       978
Other liabilities                          -        -         -        20       393
Interest payable                         205      195         -         -         -
Revolving loans                        2,633        -         _         _         _
Foreign currency borrowings           13,530         -        -         -         -
Covernment loans                         465      272  129,251          -         -
World lank and other term loans    30,000   45,000   45,000   82,500    7,500
Comon stock                           20,000   10,000   10,000   20,000   20,0oo
Decrease in:  Securities purchased for resale             -    5,000    3,000    2,000    5,000
Nominated loans ST                     2,878        -         -         -         -
Due from time - ST                                  -         -   36,900   15,000
Interest receivable                                                     -    1,017
Other assets                               7       73         -       563         -
Arrears account                        1,207        -         _-                  -
Nominated loans - LT                  19,922   31,474   18,424   19,124   31,120
Non-noodnated loans FC-LT              8,636        -   29,842   29,835   29,835
Premises and equipment                     -        -        89         -         -
Total                                           201,492  200,600  343,540  291,876  213,412
Appl'cstton of Funds
Pynt of  interest                                    6P,188   70,227   70,219   66,419   63,622
Payment of income tax                                13,593   14,056   15,004   15,176   16,403
Payment of dividends                                  7,34Q    7,213    8,007    8,219    8,708
Decrease in:  Time deposits ST                       19,125   17,212   15,492   13,942   12,548
Short-term borrowings                  3,S(Y'       -         -         -         -
Other pyables                              -        33        -         -         -
Interest payable                           -        -       751    3,780    3,032
Other liabilities                         4)       h4        88         -         -
Special time deposits                 1, ,Q22    ,44  147,607           -         _
Revolving loans                            -      67        333         -   29,835
Floating rate notes                        --                 -  100,000          -
Foreign currency borrowings                -        -   29,842   29,835           -
Government loans                           -        -         -   18,335   2Q,754
Increase in:  Securities purchased for resale         6,00n        -         -         -         _
Due from time ST                     44,500   20,500   10,500           -         -
Trade financing                          648      674       702       731       761
Non-nominated loans - ST                   -    7,941    9,499    7,026   10,676
Arrears account                            -    3,604    4,299    3,205    4,829
Interest receivable                   4,521       192    1,275        861         -
Other assets                              37        -       673         -         -
Non-nominated loans - LT                   -   23,822   28,497   21,077   32,029
Non-nominated loans - FC              13,530        -         -         -         -
Staff loans                              447      468       493       516       544
Equity investment                          -    2,000         -    3,000          -
Premises and equipment                   128      272         -        25       671
Total                                           201,529  200,639  343,281  292,146  213,412
Increase/(decreaee) in cash                               (37)      (3Q9     259      (270)        -
Opening balance                                           787       750      711       970       700
Closing balance                                           750       711      970       700       700
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



- 71 -AM                                 3
-71-                    ~~~~~ANNEX 3
Table 14
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
Projected Financial Indicators, 1986-90
1986      1987       1988       1989        1990
As % of Total Average Assets
Gross income                       9.93       9.99      10.09      10.05      10.49
Financial expense                  6.35       6.37       6.30       6.09       6.07
Gross spread (1-2)                 3.58       3.62       3.79       3.96       4.42
Administrative expense             0.94       0.96       0.99       1.06       1.17
Provisions                          -         0.07       0.02        -          -
Net income (after taxes)           1.37       1.31       1.44       1.51       1.66
Net Income as x of:
Average equity                     8.99       7.79       7.88       7.26       6.83
Share capital                     10.50       9.64      10.01       9.13       8.71
Other Ratios
Income from loanr as % of
average loan portfolio /c        9.52       9.77       9.90      10.04      10.39
Cost of debt as % of average
total borrowings                 9.56      1f.25      10.78       9.80      10.20
Interest coverage /a               1.42       1.42       1.45       1.49       1.54
Debt service coverage /b           1A9,       1.7Q       2.07       1.07       1.84
Current ratio                      1.R9       1.97       1.95       1.96       2.26
Long-term debt/equity /d           2.73       2.72       3.17       2.50       2.06
Total debt/equity                  5.17       4.73       4.26       3.43       2.83
Provision as % of portfolio        1.80       1.88       1.92       1.96       2.03
/a  Net income before tax, provisions, interest and depreciation to interest
charges.
/b Net income after tax + noncash charges + interest charges + term loan col-
lection to interest charges + repayment of term borrowing.
/c Includes loans and advances outstanding and bills discounted.
7T Excludes from long-term debt special time deposits which are linked to
nominated projects.
AEP Projects Department
July 21, 1986



MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Eatimated Commitments and Dtaburese nt. of Proposed bank Loan /a
(1ls$ '000}
SDS                                 BKPM                                                Total
Dta-                                 n1Dn-                  Comd taent                          eb.wrremeat
IbRD fiscal       Commitment          bursement         Com_itment          burgement       Period    Cumulattie               Period    Cumulative
year & semester   Amount    2/b    Amount          /h2 Amount    27b    Amount    2/b    amount             amount       2 b    amount        amount       5/b
FY87
lat *eeater        
2nd Semester      3,150        7       900       2      1,400       7        400       2      4,550        4,550         7      1,300        1,300         2
Subtotal       3.150       7        900       2      1,400       7        400       2     4,550         4,550         7      1,300        1,300         2
FY88
lot *emeater    13,950       36      2,250       7      6,200      1R      1,000       7    20,150        24,700        38      3,250        4,550         7
2nd semester    14,850       71      5,850      20      6,600      71      2,600      20    21,450        46,150        71      6,450       13,000        20
Subtotal      26,600      71      ,11  0     20    12,800       71      6,200      20    41,600        46,150        71    11,700        13,OW         20
Y69
let semeater      9,nn0    q9        8,100      3R      4,000      91      3,600      38    13,00n        59,150        91    11,700        24,700        3F
2nd semester      4,050    100       8,100      56      1,800    100       3,600      56      5,850       6S,000       100    11,700        36,400        56
Subtotal      13,050    100    16.200        56      5,600     100                 56    18,850       65,000        100    23,400       36,450         56
FY90
lst semester           -      -      6,750      71          -       -      1,000      71          -            -         -      9,750      46,150         71
2nd semester           -      -      5,400      83          -       -      2,400      63          -            -         -      7,600       53,950        83
Subtotal                         i2,150      83                  -        - 4      no83                                     17550       53,950         83
ml
lst semester           -      -      3,600      q           -       -      1,h00      91          -            -         -      5,200       S9,150        91
2nd semwater           -      -      2,250      96          -       -      1,000      96          -            -         -      3,t50       62,400        96
Subtotal           -              S,850      96          _          -     I,ROO    96          -           _,450                        62,400         96
FY92
Ist seimater           -      -      1,800    100           -       -        800    100           -            -         -      2,600      65,00o        100
2nd semester           -           -      -      -          -       -          -       -          -            -         -          -            -         -
Subtotal            -      _      1,ROO    100           _       -        600    100           -            -         -      2.600      65,000        100
Total         4S,000    100    45,000    100    20,000    100    2N,000    100    65,000               65,000       100    6S,000       65,000        100
/a  Assumed loan effectiveness date is January I, 1987.  DIsbtirsement percentages are based on Standard Disbureement Profile for nrC loan, In
Fast Asta and Pactfic Region.
/b Cumulative.
AEP Projects Department
Julv 21. 1986



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPKENT FINANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Mlaaysia Development Strategies and their Financing, 1985, (Report
No. 5560-KA).
2.   Malaysia:  Industrializing a Primary Producer, 1985, (Report
No. 5908-MA).
3.   Credit Department Manual, 1985, Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad.
4.   Sabah and The Sabah Development Bank, 1985, Sabah Development Bank
Berhad.
5.   Project Supervision, 1983, Sabah Development Bank Berhad.
6.   Descriptive and Background References, 1985, Sabah Development Bank
Berhad.
AEP Project Department
July 21, 1986



-74-                      CHART 1
L ~ J1
;" ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E'IfhI
IifI
I                                                              - ~~~~~~~~~1~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
BKPM
Organization Chatt
(As of October 21, 1985)
r CANtRl MANAGE
I(()MID)ENTIAl SFC-R&rARY
HIAL)CX I L4,tRCH&      ,_   _1 MMl                                                         TREAMLJH
(*\Pt LPNT I IPAPMEN        tAI MIN JIf 1'1 Al'A4t P41
Mr) NoXXe *ANKA) YLLSO             '4  IN4! MkOlJ,KAI            YAK- t lNSR                     VACAN
_1      ) _~(COMPANY St CR IARY)                                                       ( REA%AREP)
r--l   1r _ _                                                     I                   _I___ 
EXPORT CREDIT EXECUIJWE   JAC &                       I JRE M EXECUTNS             || ADM#STRAT  &  PEf      L I I                           I
(1)                            (6)                                                         (1)
[RStARC1H & DE*LfMIENT CLE RCLEPr|YPIST                                                 OOKC4 EEFER/ACCOUNTS CLER
(1)                                                       (4,                           (3)
(2!
wordar* -31071



MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT RNANCE PROJECT
SABAH Development Bank Betad
Organization Chart As of November 1, 1985
Do tvltttM
L                                      L ) hA
I   .rriK1fy                                                              IflIfM, J% I
L     fret(JrF                                                            Audtoi 
C)r,wahIons~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,i
X                             .        * 1
DeLxstrnw't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<vtrt<
i4WRI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                    [x4lrr"               AV151x
1-   m-"oe
*  _         f                                      |                       -              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wiK)
twrcnuptjecicJ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Vk06. 2r7?30]voctoc     G t



0 '                                                           104-                                                         i08-
MALAYSIA
;HAILAND                                                                                                                              Roads
Railways
Por ts
--_>                                                                                                                     *       Airports
Rivers
:,*  ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       -    ~~~~~Mow,toinous 
g> -   \  Koto ahc,u                                                                   -*- In te rnatonaol
,--.,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   \~~~~~~~,*                                         0    ~ ~ ~ ~~iol200
2                                                                                         -.. sX    >1   .\   .  IC;L0METKL T
f /- .
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   N 
K~alo S.a~g~$~-~.  ~.e,*,l    ,o 
pot,                   ,.                                                                           \CNEAh
*o  K nN                                                                                         N        E5:
S' SINGAPORE
I                                                     N D O N     E S I A
104'



I8RD 19374
PHILIPPINES
6e
-c>.
ion Boundaries
3ounddries                                                                               -
300         40C
-N.
ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   Dot,
BRUNEI                                 R         -
..  iB nt /~~~~~~~:                                           '.
A RPA VIA K 
p~~~~~~~~~~~ ).
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N |) 0Ne  SIAV
~rK        /                  v                                     ,' a''dd-r' :'
--~~                         ~     ~~~~~ .      '  -   n   ,
^   eE; ' 98!



