Document of
The World Bankl
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
Report No. 12353
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2770-2771-MA)
SEPTEMBER 27, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EgUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Malaysian Ringgit (M$)
Average 1991:   US$1.0  -  2.750       M$1.0  -   0.364
Average 1990:   US$1.0  -  2.705       M$1.0  -   0.370
Average 1989:   US$1.0  -  2.709       M$1.0  -   0.369
Average 1988:   US$1.0  -  2.619       M$1.0  -   0.382
Average 1987:   US$1.0  -  2.520       M$1.0  -   0.397
Average 1986:   US$1.0  -  2.581       M$1.0  -   0.387
Average 1985:   US$1.0  -  2.483       M$1.0  -   0.403
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AJDF     -    ASEAN-Japan Development Fund
BKPM/BIM -    Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad/
Bank Industri Malaysia Berhad
BNM      -    Bank Negara Malaysia (central bank)
CPS      -    Currency Pooling System
DFI      -    Development Finance Institution/Intermediary
DFP      -    Development Finance Project
ERR      -    Economic Rate of Return
GOM      -    Government of Malaysia
MIPS     -    Malaysian Industrial Policy Studies
NIF      -    New Investment Fund
PFIs     -    Participating Financial Institutions
SAR      -    Staff Appraisal Report
SDB      -    Sabah Development Bank Berhad
SSEs     -    Small Scale Enterprises
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluatlon
September 27, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Malaysia -
DeveloDment Finance Project (Loans 2770 and 2771-MA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malaysia - Development Finance Project (Loans
2770 and 2771-MA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrowers.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It gives a clear account of the project experience and the
reasons for its mixed outcome. According to the PCR, the risks envisaged in the SAR were unfortunately
realized. The availability of highly subsidized funds under the New Investment Fund (NIF)-established
by the Government of Malaysia and aimed at promoting investment in the priority sectors in order to
counteract the economic slowdown in 1985--and the Asean-Japan Development Fund, led to a much lower
demand for the Bank funds and the subsequent cancellation of the more than 65 % of the total loan amount.
The PCR states that while the impact of NIF on the demand for loan proceeds "posed an intractable
problem and led to postponement of loan negotiations from February 1986 to October 1986", the project
was, nevertheless, submitted to the Board and approved in December 1986. Moreover, the financial health
of one of the participating financial institutions remains a cause of concern.
Although the project partially succeeded in assisting both participating financial institutions with
their institutional development, given its meager achievements and low disbursement, it is rated as
unsatisfactory with uncertain sustainability.
No audit of this project is planned.
Attachment
7This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2770-2771-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Paze No.
Preface           .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   ii-iii
I.       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .                 1
1. Project Identity.                                                            1
2.  Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .                 2
4.   Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                3
5.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 4
6.  Project   Results   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  5
7. Project Sustainability.                                                      8
8. Bank Performance.                                                            8
9. Borrowers Performance.                                                       9
10. Project Relationship.                                                       9
11. Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 9
12.   Main   Lessons  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  10
II.       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .                11
III.       STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 18
1.  Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                18
2.   Project Timetable   . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . .               18
3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . . . . . .                19
4.   Status of Bank Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               20
5.  Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                22
A.  Staff   Inputs    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
B.   Missions  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  22
6.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                23
6.1 BIM: Industrial Subsector and Regional Distributions of
Subprojects    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .    .  .    .    .  23
6.2 BIM:  Financial Characteristics of Subprojects  . . . .               24
6.3 BIM:  Economic Contribution/Performance of Subprojects                25
6.4 SDB:  Financial and Economic Characteristics/Performance of
Subprojects    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .  .  .    .    .    .  .  26
7.  BIM's Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                27
7.1 Summarized Balance Sheets, 1986-1991  . . . . . . . . .               27
7.2 Profit and Loss Accounts, 1986-1991   . . . . . . . . .               28
8.  SDB's Financial Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                29
8.1 Balance Sheet (Actual), 1986-1992   . . . . . . . . . .               29
8.2 Balance Sheet (Projected), 1986-1992  . . . . . . . . .               30
8.3 Income Statement (Actual), 1986-1992  . . . . . . . . .               31
8.4 Income Statement (Projected), 1986-1992   . . . . . . .               32
8.5 Financial Highlights and Indicators (Actual), 1986-1992               33
8.6 Financial Highlights and Indicators (Projected), 1986-1992    34
8.7 Domestic/Foreign Currency Resource Mobilization,
1986-1992    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  35
8.8 Summary of Loan Portfolio, 1986-1992  . . . . . . . . .               36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MALAYS IA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2770-2771-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Development Finance
Project (DFP) in Malaysia for which Loan 2770-2771-MA of US$65.00 million
equivalent was approved by the Board on December 16, 1986 at the standard
variable interest rate. The Loan 2770-MA was made to Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan
Malaysia Berhad (BKPM)l for an amount of US$20.00 million for 15 years including
three years grace, and the Loan 2771-MA to Sabah Development Bank Berhad (SDB)
for an amount of US$45.00 million for 13 years including four years grace. These
loans were guaranteed for repayment by the Covernment of Malaysia (GOM) for a one
time front end fee of one percent. Both these loans were closed, as scheduled,
on December 31, 1991, but with cancellations of US$7.55 million and US$35.00
million respectively.   Thus,  the net loan amounts of US$12.45 million and
US$10.00 million have been fully disbursed. The final disbursement dates were
June 10, 1991 and January 23, 1992 respectively. Each Borrower has made the half
yearly repayments to the Bank in accordance with its amortization schedule (as
of January 15, 1993).
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared as
a desk study in the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department
1, East Asia and Pacific Region (EAlIE).   Part II was prepared by the two
Borrowers, which also supplied part of the statistical information required for
Part III.
This PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports; internal Bank memoranda and
economic/sector reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrowers; BIM's
and SDB's audited annual financial statements; SDB's quarterly progress reports;
and the subproject data supplied by the Borrowers.
l    The name was subsequently changed to the Bank Industri Malaysia Berhad
(BIM):






- ii 
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2770-2771-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
1.        Proiect Objectives.  Th.e Project had two broad objectives:  sectoral
and institutional.   In the sectoral (policy) context, as a follow-up of the
Malaysian Industrial Policy Studies (MIPS), the Project aimed at continuing the
constructive policy dialogue in the financial and industrial sectors between the
Government and the Bank.   In the institutional (credit) context, the overall
approach was at:   (a) improving institutional efficiency and broadening the
activities of the two participating financial institutions (PFIs): government-
owned Bank Industri Malaysia Berhad (BIM) and Sabah Development Bank (SDB);
(b) broadening the PFIs' resource base and reducing their dependence on
government funding; and (c) improving their resource allocation efficiency by
strengthening their long-term project based lending. (paras. 3.1-3.4).
2.        ImDlementation   Experience.         Actual   project   implementation
significantly differed from planned implementation. In terms of disbursed loan
amounts, out of the total of US$65.0 million, only US$22.5 million was disbursed
with BIM canceling US$7.6 million (out of US$20.0 million), and SDB US$35.0
million (out of US$45.0 million). The large cancellations were noteworthy since
the Bank's first two supervision missions were particularly optimistic about
PFIs' promising pipeline of subprojects. The projected disbursements failed to
materialize because of: (a) the continued lack of competitiveness of the Bank
loan due to its relatively high relending rate compared with the National
Investment Fund (NIF) and ASEAN-Japan Development Fund (AJDF); (b) the downturn
in the economy of Sabah; and (c) changes in Malaysia's balance of payments
current account from deficit to surplus.   Although the Project risks were
approriately identified, there was no way the Bank could forsee the eventual
uncompetitiveness of its funds. The Bank conceived two risks: (a) an adequate
number of eligible subprojects might not materialize; and (b) the PFIs may
experience financial difficulties. Both risks materialized as the availability
of highly subsidized funds under the NIF and AJDF led to a much lower demand for
Bank funds, and as SDB's financial condition continued to deteriorate (paras.
5.1-5.3).
3.        Proiect Results.   The Project had mixed results in achieving its
multiple objectives.   ImRact of Term Credit.   The Project had only limited
success in providing term credit, since more than 65% of the total loan amount
was canceled. The Project contributed towards a successful diversification of
BIM's operations but had very limited discernible impact on SDB's institutional
strengthening.   BIM's lending of M$34.0 million to 17 subprojects led to an
investment of M$151.0 million and creation of 73 jobs, whereas SDB's lending of
M$27.0 million to four subprojects led to an investment of M$312.0 million and
the creation of 1,649 jobs. Three out of six subprojects above the "free limit"
were experiencing losses and the quality of PFI's subloan portfolio under the
Project was not satisfactory.  Industrial Policy.  The Project was not actually
used as a vehicle to discuss industrial policy due to GOM's reluctance to engage
in these discussions through a lending operation.   However,  a dialogue was



- 111 -
carried out through the Bank's sector work, after which the GOM initiated
substantial industrial, investment and trade policy reforms (paras. 6.1-6.6).
4.        Project Sustainability.  Given the basic problem with the selection
of financial intermediaries, it is not possible to make a conclusive statement
about the Project's sustainability. The implementation of the Project has not
been satisfactory. BIM is searching for and taking steps to improve its lending
program by extending its role in promoting high technology and export-oriented
industries.   SDB, on the other hand,  is facing more complex and uncertain
conditions. Likewise, the sustainability of subproject benefits is difficult to
assess due to inadequate information. But from the available information, it can
be inferred that several subprojects might not be financially sound and the
economic benefits might not be sustainable (paras. 7.1 and 7.2).
5.        Bank/Borrowers Performance.  Overall, the performance of the Bank in
respect of the Project was adequate. The Project concept was a standard DFI type
credit operation.   However,  the Project was implemented during an uncertain
economic climate in Malaysia and the Bank loan with its variable interest rate
had to compete with highly subsidized foreign funds at fixed rates from the AJDF
and local funds at subsidized rates from NIF.   Due to the availability of
alternative sources, the two PFIs used the Bank loan essentially as a standby
line of credit.   On the one hand,  BIM's performance  could be considered
satisfactory as it sought international exposure and institutional strengthening
through the Project, and partly utilized the Loan, notwithstanding its
complexities and relatively unattractive  terms.   On the other hand,  SDB's
financial performance is less than satisfactory (paras. 8.1-8.2 and 9.1).
6.        Main Lessons Learned.   The main lessons  learned are:   (a)  the
relending interest rate under a Bank project should be market-oriented and the
Loan should be demand-driven; (b) a credit operation should be carried out in an
overall context of the financial sector taking into account the issues of
directed credit programs and interest rates; (c) DFI has not been an effective
vehicle for addressing financial sector issues; (d) Bank should allow adequate
time to learn the lessons from the operational experience of previous projects;
(e) the quality of retail-level institutions is crucial to the success of a
credit operation (para. 12.1).



MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2770-2771-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name      Development Finance Project
Loan Nos.         2770-MA and 2771-MA
RVP Unit       : East Asia & Pacific Region
Country           Malaysia
Sector            Industry
Subsector         Development Finance
2.        Project Background
2.1       During  the  early  1980s  Malaysia's  economic  growth  was  led  by
expansionary fiscal policy together with a property boom, and the rise in real
wages was coupled with an appreciation of the real exchange rate, which was
eroding the international competitiveness of the Malaysian manufacturing industry
relative to other East Asian countries'. The GOM and the Bank evolved an action
plan for the Bank's long-term involvement in the industrial/manufacturing sector.
The Bank's principal objective was to support GOM efforts at efficient industrial
development through investment under an appropriate industrial and financial
sector policy framework.   To achieve this objective,  the Bank's operational
strategy was to have a constructive macroeconomic and industrial sector policy
dialogue with the GOM, while developing innovative and increasingly complex
projects. As a prelude to this dialogue, the Bank undertook industrial sector
work, culminating in the UNDP-financed/Bank-executed Malaysian Industrial Policy
Studies (MIPS), which were completed in early 1985. Moreover, during 1985 the
Bank conducted a study of development finance institutions (DFIs) and export
finance institutions. The Bank approved its first industrial finance (sector)
operation: the Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE) Project (Loan 2471-MA) in 1984 to
provide institutional investment credit for SSEs through two DFIs.
2.2       As a result of an unusual combination of external  and  internal
factors, the Malaysian economy was hit by a severe recession during 1985 and
1986: a simultaneous fall in prices of Malaysia's export commodities (petroleum,
palm oil, rubber, sawlogs, tin, and cocoa); the bursting of the property market
bubble; and the downturn in the overall business cycle. To promote investment
in the priority sectors of manufacturing, agriculture and tourism, and thereby
counteract the economic slowdown, the central bank, Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM),



- 2 -
announced in September 1985 the establishment of a New Investment Fund (NIF)1
of M$1.0 billion (US$403 million).   The impact of the NIF on the demand for
Bank's credit under the Development Finance Project--appraised in October 1985--
and the financial health of Sabah Development Bank (SDB) posed an intractable
problem and led to a postponement of loan negotiations from February 1986 to
October 1986. Nevertheless, the Project was submitted to and approved by the
Board in December 1986. In retrospect, both these concerns adversely affected
the implementation of the Project (see paras. 5.1 to 5.3).
3.        Project Obiectives and Description
3.1       Objectives.   The Project had two broad objectives:   sectoral and
institutional.  In the sectoral (policy) context, as a follow-up of the MIPS, the
Project aimed at continuing the constructive policy dialogue in the financial and
industrial sectors between the GOM and the Bank.  In the institutional (credit)
context, the overall approach was at:  (a) improving institutional efficiency and
broadening the activities of the two participating financial institutions (PFIs);
(b) broadening the PFIs' resource base and reducing their dependence on
government funding; and (c) improving their resource allocation efficiency by
strengthening their long-term project based lending. The Project also aimed at
helping improve the country's foreign debt profile and BNM in its debt management
by providing long-term foreign exchange funds to substitute for short-term
private sector borrowings.
3.2       Description.  The Project had a credit and policy component. In the
policy front, the Project aimed to provide a vehicle for the Bank to support the
GOM in modifications of its industrial policy in the light of MIPS'
recommendations and its privatization program in the context of the Industrial
Master Plan and the Fifth Five Year Plan.  The Project thus aimed to support
efficient industrial development through investment under a framework of
appropriate industrial and financial sector policies.
3.3       The Project's credit component aimed to finance a broad range of
medium-   and  medium-to-large   scale   subprojects--essentially   in  private
manufacturing, transportation, tourism, and agro-industry/commercial agriculture
sectors-- but the bulk of the financing was meant for the manufacturing sector,
with an emphasis on economically justified import substituting and export
promoting subprojects. Financing for consumer real estate, ocean-going shipping
and cocoa growing was excluded.  Initially, five PFIs--three DFIs, one commercial
bank and one merchant bank--were envisaged for the credit component. However,
only two fully-government owned DFIs, Bank Industri Malaysia Berhad (BIM) and
Sabah Development Bank (SDB), actually participated, as both banks and the third
privately-owned DFI opted out.   The merchant and commercial banks found the
Bank's loan unattractive while MIDF (a private DFI) had no need for additional
Bank funds. BIM and SDB borrowed the equivalent of US$20.0 million and US$45.0
million, respectively.
3.4       In consultation with the GOM (including BNM), the Bank selected BIM
The NIF, channeled through commercial banks, had a maximum term of five
years and a relending rate not to exceed 1.25 percent above the base
lending rate (BLR) of the two Government-owned leading domestic banks.



- 3 -
and SDB for the Project. The Project intended to act as a catalyst in redefining
BIM's role as an independent,  diversified DFI.   It supported the strategic
changes incorporated in BIM's Statement of Future Operational Strategies. SDB
also aimed at becoming an independent DFI by discontinuing and divesting the
financing of "nominated projects", and by raising an increasing proportion of its
resources from private domestic and foreign capital markets. These goals were
incorporated in SDB's Strategy Statement.
4.        Project Design and Organization
4.1       Partly because the GOM itself was actively involved in developing an
appropriate policy framework, the Project design did not provide guidelines or
steps for the policy dialogue, nor did it provide a mechanism to monitor the
progress of such a dialogue. The Project design also did not provide adequate
monitoring and evaluation devices to measure the Project's effectiveness in
improving institutional and resource allocation efficiencies (see para. 3.1).
The Project design and appraisal did not benefit from past operational
experiences as the maiden SSE Project (see para. 2.1) had just entered into its
implementation stage.  While the roles and responsibilities of the PFIs were
well-defined, the Bank's procedures and financial charges and the GOM's role were
not well understood by the PFIs. Further, the Project design did not require the
furnishing of periodic progress reports, and the supervision mission's attempts
to solicit them was only partly successful.
4.2       A loan of US$20.0 million (equivalent) was made to BIM for 15 years
including three years grace, and US$45.0 million (equivalent) to SDB for 13 years
including four years grace.   Both loans were in accordance with the standard
variable interest rate system (as amended effective July 1, 1989). The GOM
charged a one time fee of 1% up front for guaranteeing the repayment of the Bank
loan and the availability of foreign exchange thereafter.   The amortization
period of subloans was expected to average about 10 years; longer amortizations
were, however, allowed to enable PFIs to use second generation funds for similar
purposes and in similar conditions. The subloans were denominated in Ringgit
(M$). The onlending rate was determined by PFIs in relation to the domestic
market interest rates and the degree of risk involved for an individual
subborrower, which, in turn, was expected to cover PFIs' cost of funds and
provide an adequate margin.   The domestic rates were,  generally,  free and
substantially positive in real terms, and responsive to changes in international
interest rates. There was no subsidy either to PFIs or to final beneficiaries.
The PFIs were expected, over the life of the Bank loan, to get an annual spread
of 3% to 4%, and the final beneficiaries were expected to pay a real interest
rate of about 9% on the Bank funds.
4.3       The Loan proceeds were to finance both direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs:   (a) 100% of foreign expenditures on goods and 60% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally;   (b) 45% on civil works; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures on professional fees. However, the PFIs and
their subborrowers found this financing procedure too cumbersome, and the Bank
agreed to their requests to amend Schedule 1 of the respective loan agreements
as follows:   (a) with SDB in January 1988, to finance 65% of all expenditures
under the subloans and investments; and (b) with BIM in August 1988, to finance
100% of foreign expenditures or 65% of all local expenditures under the subloans
and investments.



- 4 -
4.4       Both PFIs had the same "free limit" of US$700,000 equivalent, and
their total commitments were not to exceed 50% of their respective (original)
total loan amounts. Moreover, no subloan was expected to exceed 10% of their
(original) total Bank loan; but, as discussed in para. 5.1, this limit was waived
for BIM. Each PFI was required to keep its long-term consolidated debt/equity
ratio below 5:1.   Reimbursements of expenditures incurred under  free limit"
subloans were made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures  (SOEs).   To
facilitate disbursements, both PFIs established special accounts (US$1.5 million
for BIM and US$3.5 million for SDB) which have been fully recovered. SDB did not
utilize the account since all its disbursements were made for reimbursement.
During the negotiations both PFIs agreed to the following requirements for all
subprojects above the "free limit": (a) calculation of Financial Rates of Return
(FRRs) and Economic Rates of Return (ERRs); and (b) explicit consideration of
environmental implications.
5.        Project Implernentation
5.1       Critical  Variances  in  Project  Implementation.    Actual  project
implementation significantly differed from planned implementation. In terms of
disbursed loan amounts, out of the total of US$65.0 million, only US$22.5 million
was disbursed with BIM cinceling US$7.6 million (out of US$20.00 million), and
SDB US$35.0 million (out of US$45.0 million).   The large cancellations were
noteworthy since the Bank's first two supervision missions were particularly
upbeat, reporting that: (a) BIM had substantial commitments within six months
of the Loan effectiveness and the entire loan amount was expected to be fully
utilized by December 1988; and (b) SDB had committed about two-thirds of its
total loan amount by November 1987 and had a promising pipeline for the rest.
Despite the Bank's agreeing to a more flexible disbursement procedure, raising
BIM's authorization limit from US$2.0 million to US$7.5 million, and allowing SDB
to retroactively finance subprojects up to one year before receipt of
application, the PFIs only started to disburse on the Loan in August 1988 and
January 1990, respectively. The projected disbursements failed to materialize
because of: (a) the continued lack of competitiveness of the Bank loan due to
its relatively high relending rate compared with the NIF and the ASEAN-Japan
Development Fund (AJDF); (b) the downturn in the economy of Sabah which led to
reduced SDB lending operations and increased liquidity; and (c) changes in
Malaysia's balance of payments current account from deficit to surplus during
1987 and 1988.
5.2       By June 1988, however, it was apparent that the Project could have
substantial cancellations of the Loan amounts as the local market interest rates
had fallen from about 12.0% to 7.0%, as compared to the Bank's onlending rate of
7.7%,  and relending  rate  of about  10.7%.   The  third supervision mission
recognized the problem but did not propose remedial actions. SDB experienced
difficulties in implementing the Project because it could not blend low cost
funds (NIF or AJDF) with Bank funds. BIM, however, had more success because of
its better access to cheaper funds (e.g., AJDF at 3.5%), more aggressive bank
management, and the strong recovery of the peninsular economy. By June 1989,
BIM's line of credit was largely committed, as noted in the fifth supervision
mission--which even suggested a follow-up operation. The optimism was short-
lived, however, as BIM canceled US$5.3 million in December 1989 and US$2.2
million in December 1991, largely due to its access to funds at highly
concessionary rates.   As a result of major loan cancellations,  the expected



disbursement period of five years was actually reduced to two to three years, and
the 50 to 60 estimated total number of subprojects financed was reduced to 21.
5.3       Project Risks.  The Project risks were appropriately identified, but
there was no way the Bank could foresee the eventual uncompetitiveness of its
funds. Although the SAR indicated that there was "no major risk", it conceived
two which it considered "relatively minor and manageable.,,  They were:  (a) an
adequate number of eligible subprojects might not materialize; and (b) the PFIs
may experience financial difficulties, loan portfolio deterioration or the
inability to raise long-term resources. The availability of highly subsidized
funds under the NIF and AJDF led to a much lower demand for Bank funds and the
subsequent cancellation of more than 65% of the total loan amount. The second
risk, as applied to SDB, did materialize. SDB's financial condition remains a
cause of serious concern since the ratio of total arrears to total loan
outstanding remains very high (the ratio exceeded 24% at December 31, 1992, of
which arrears above 12 months were almost 76%).
6.        Project Results
6.1       Achievement of Project Objectives.  The Project had mixed results in
achieving its multiple objectives of provision of term credit, institution
building, and industrial policy dialogue.   While it was apparent that these
objectives would not be met, there was no attempt to modify them during the
Project implementation.
6.2       Impact of Term Credit.   The Project had only limited success in
providing term credit, since more than 65% of the total loan amount was canceled
(as discussed in paras. 5.1-5.3). The availability of highly subsidized funds
from alternative sources led to the uncompetitiveness of Bank funds and reduced
demand for their utilization. Detailed results of the operation are highlighted
below.
(a)  Main  Characteristics  of  Subprojects.    BIM  used  M$34.0  million
(US$12.45 million equivalent) to finance 17 subprojects, as compared
to SDB which used M$27.0 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) to
finance four subprojects--all above the "free limit".  BIM financed
only two subprojects above the "free limit" of which one was
exceptionally large:  a M$20.0 million subloan with a total project
cost  of  M$127.0  million.    Both  BIM  subprojects  were  for  new
investments in the manufacturing sector. In addition, three other new
subprojects and 12 expansion projects in the manufacturing sector,
mostly for import substitution, were also financed by BIM as "free
limit" subloans. These subprojects were mostly located in the Federal
Territory and Selangore State.   SDB financed one new subproject in
Johore State and three in Sabah.
(b) Performance of Subprojects. Only limited information is available on
subproject performance.   BIM's lending of M$34.0 million led to an
investment of M$151.0 million and the creation of 1056 jobs, whereas
SDB's lending of M$27.0 million led to an investment of M$312.0
million and the creation of 1,649 jobs.   SDB financed two labor-
intensive subprojects--expansion of Kota Kinabalu Port under the Sabah
Port Authority and expansion of a joint venture engaged in planting/



- 6 -
cultivation of land into oil palm, which respectively contributed to
the increase in the export of sawn timber and the yields of palm oil.
SDB also financed expansion of a company providing logistic support
services and facilities for the oil and gas industry. This company's
revenue and profit continue to be far below the projections, and it
is considered to be vulnerable. Finally, SDB financed a new factory
to manufacture acids and glycerine, which had cost overruns of almost
50% and was unable to service its debt due to continued losses and
serious cash flow problems.   (See Part II, pages 6-7 for details.)
Although SDB did not provide ERR estimates, BIM provided such
estimates for all subprojects, which varied between 19.0% and 38.3%.
However, the three subprojects experiencing losses had impressive
ERRs: 25%, 31% and 38% (see Tables 6.3 and 6.4 for details).
(c)  PFIs'  SubDroject  Terms  and  Conditions.    BIM's  onlending  rate,
generally at 8.5%, left a very thin gross margin for BIM, since the
Bank's lending rate, besides being adjustable semi-annually, remained
relatively high at around 7.7% (excluding the interest charge waiver
and commitment charge). SDB, however, had a gross margin of 1.5% to
4.0%.   Both PFIs had determined the amortization period (including
grace) on a case-by-case basis, which varied between 5 and 10 years.
(d)  PFIs' SubRroject Portfolio.  The quality of BIM's subloan portfolio
under the Project was not satisfactory: four subprojects had overdue
payments of M$1.5 million.   Out of 13 subprojects for which profit
(loss) data were available, the total loss incurred by three far
exceeded the total profit made by the remaining ten: M$6.4 million
vs. M$2.1 million. The portfolio's loss was dominated by the M$5.5
million loss incurred by the public sector enterprise: Sabah Shipyard
(engaged in offshore fabrication). Similarly, the quality of SDB's
subloan portfolio also was not satisfactory: one subproject (out of
four) had arrears of both principal and interest as of December 31,
1992.
6.3       Institution Building.
(a)  BIM.  After more than 12 years of operation, BIM is still redefining
its role.  Originally the Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad,
BIM was established in 1979 as a government-owned DFI to provide
financing  for  large-scale  capital  intensive  projects.    However,
because of the GOM's budgetary constraints at the time when BIM
started operations, the required funds for intended projects were not
provided. BIM therefore concentrated on financing coastal shipping,
small shipbuilding and ship repair industries, mostly at less than
market rates of interest.   BIM's total assets amounted to M$622.4
million in December 1991, an increase of 13% from 1990.   Of this,
loans and guarantees accounted for 58% (M$161.8 million), an increase
of 8.8% from the previous year.   The engineering sector was the
biggest borrower at 41%, followed by export/import finance (37%) and
shipping and shipyard (22%).   On account of BIM's rapid growth in
lending, its debt:equity ratio increased from 2.9x in 1990 to 3.4x in
1991.  Operating revenues during the year increased by 26% from 1990



-7-
levels to M$30.9 million, while net profit jumped by 31% to M$10.6
million.
(b) SDB. SDB was established in 1977 as the principal DFI for the State
of Sabah, although it can, by its statute, invest anywhere in
Malaysia.  It was a conduit for GOM funds for projects nominated by
the state government,  besides  financing private  sector projects.
SDB's total assets of M$1,054.4 million in December 1990 decreased by
6.7% in 1991, to M$983.9 million. In 1990, SDB recovered most of the
lending volume that it lost in 1989, due to increased borrowing from
the state government and reduced holdings of bonds. In 1991, however,
this recovery was halted when the state government decided to reduce
its deposits in SDB by M$73.1 million, from M$655 million to M$582
million. As a result, SDB had to again curtail its lending operations
in 1991 by 7%, from M$614.9 million to M$573.2 million. In 1991, the
agriculture sector accounted for 41% of SDB's total loans, with real
estate (23%), manufacturing (12%) and others (24%) accounting for the
rest. On the other hand, while the state government reduced its long
term deposits in SDB, it also converted M$48.9 million of that into
SDB share capital  in 1991.   Consequently,  the debt:equity ratio
improved from 4.2x in 1990 to 2.8x in 1991.   Despite its funding
problems and reduced income from non-performing loans, SDB managed to
register annual profits over M$10 million from 1987 to 1991. The net
profit in 1991 of M$12.6 million was a 17% increase from 1990.
6.4       The Project contributed towards a successful diversification of BIM's
operations: from financing shipbuilding industries to financing of engineering
industries and equipment leasing, export credit and import trade financing,
besides establishing venture capital operations leading to technology-oriented
manufacturing, and launching a technical consultancy program.   By 1990,  the
engineering sector overtook shipbuilding as BIM's largest recipient of loans, and
the Project funds were used mainly to finance high technology investments
(including computer numerically controlled and other advanced machinery). The
available information suggests that the quality of BIM's overall portfolio has
improved in recent years with non-performing loans accounting for 6% of total
loans outstanding as of June 30, 1991.
6.5       The Project seems to have had very limited discernible impact on SDB's
institutional strengthening. About 90% of SDB's assets are funded by the state
government and its liquidity depends on the continued patronage of the state.
This continued dependence on government funds continued to be a key constraint,
particularly now in times of political tensions with the Federal Government and
the bleak prospects of Sabah's economy.  SDB also continued to have excessively
high arrears and non-performing loans: out of a total of 141 outstanding loans,
70 were non-performing, which accounted for almost 29% (including arrears above
12 months) of total loans outstanding as of December 31, 1992.
6.6       Industrial Policy.  The Project was not actually used as a vehicle to
discuss industrial policy due to the GOM's reluctance to engage in these
discussions through a lending operation. However, a dialogue was carried out
through the Bank's sector work, after which the GOM substantially liberalized the
licensing requirements, reduced administrative delays, and reoriented the intent
of industrial licensing to monitor industrial development rather than regulate



- 8 -
it. Moreover, licensing became an integral part of the GOM's overall industrial
policy that increasingly focused on industrial restructuring, for which it had
also created an Industrial Adjustment Fund.  Malaysia has a sound industrial
policy and has succeeded in attracting direct foreign investment, which
facilitated access to advanced technology and international markets and the
introduction of modern management practices.
7.        Project Sustainability
7.1       Given   the  basic   problem  with   the   selection   of  financial
intermediaries, it is not possible to make a conclusive statement about the
Project's sustainability.   The  implementation of the Project has not been
satisfactory.   BIM is searching for and taking steps to improve its lending
program by extending its role in promoting high technology and export-oriented
industries, besides its traditional role of promoting the rapid expansion of
domestic shipping fleet, replacing and modernizing ageing vessels, and increasing
the capacity of Malaysian shipyards.  The enhanced role of BIM in Malaysia's
continued rapid industrialization will, however, require sustained follow-up
actions to ensure further improvement in the quality of BIM's portfolio. SDB,
on the other hand,  is facing more complex and uncertain conditions.   In
particular, SDB needs to focus on cost control, adopt productivity improvement
programs to enhance optimal use of its resources, seek investment opportunities
outside Sabah State, increase its loan loss provision, rehabilitate its non-
performing loans, and mobilize resources from non-government sources.
7.2       Likewise, the sustainability of subproject benefits is difficult to
assess due to inadequate information. But from the available information, it can
be inferred that several subprojects might not be financially sound and the
economic benefits might not be sustainable.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       The performance of the Bank in respect of the Project was adequate in
general. The Bank's contribution at the stage of preparation was a positive one
as it diligently pursued the completion of MIPS and promptly followed-up the idea
advanced by BNM regarding a Bank project requiring no additional budgetary
outlays. The Project concept was a standard DFI type credit operation. However,
the Project was implemented during an uncertain economic climate in Malaysia and
the Bank loan with its variable interest rate had to compete with highly
subsidized foreign funds at fixed rates from the AJDF and local funds at
subsidized rates from NIF.   As a result of the availability of alternative
sources, the two PFIs used the Bank loan essentially as a standby line of credit.
8.2       Although  the  Project  supervision  was  adequate  in  terms  of  its
frequency,  the comprehensiveness  and analysis was generally lacking.   For
instance, neither the supervision reports nor other documents in the Project
files contained discussions regarding the policy objectives of the Project. The
Project files also did not reflect the required explicit assessments of the
environmental impact for above the "fr:ee-limit" subprojects. Furthermore, in the
majority of cases, information about the Bank's review of subloan appraisal
reports is not available.



-9-
9.        Borrowers Performance
9.1       On the one hand, BIM's performance could be considered satisfactory
as it sought international exposure and institutional strengthening through the
Project, and partly utilized the Loan as a stand-by credit, notwithstanding its
complexities  and  relatively  unattractive  terms.    Institutionally,  BIM's
achievements seem impressive.   It almost doubled the cumulative gross loan
approvals during 1988-90, diversified its loan portfolio and contributed towards
the upgrading of technology (para. 6.3).  On the other hand, SDB's financial
performance is less than satisfactory. SDB's funding capabilities is seriously
affected by Sabah's deteriorating economic condition, the Federal Government's
exclusion of SDB from most of its special funds, and the reluctance of banks
from peninsular Malaysia to invest in SDB. Consequently, its lending operations
has been seriously affected not only by this funding constraint but also by the
lack of few rewarding projects in Sabah. Furthermore, SDB's occasional lending
in peninsular Malaysia has not been regarded favorably by the state government.
The financial condition of SDB is also problematic as it continued to have a poor
loan portfolio quality (paras. 5.3 and 6.5).   Both BIM and SDB effectively
maintained their long-term debt-equity ratios well below the covenanted ratio of
5:1, although requiring a capital injection by the GOM.
10.       Proiect Relationship
10.1      The relationships between COM, the two PFIs and the Bank were overall
reasonable. The PFIs kept the Bank informed, as in the case of their intent to
use alternative sources of funds while the Bank promptly and positively responded
to BIM's proposal regarding a venture capital subsidiary.   The collaboration
between the Bank, GOM officials and DFI's dealing with the industrial sector
brought about closer contacts and facilitated Bank's future operations.  The
amicable and businesslike working relationship among the parties have been
maintained throughout the Project cycle.  BIM and SDB seem to have maintained
good relationships with the subborrowers.
11.       Project Documentation and Data
11.1      The Project documents, i.e. , Loan and Guarantee Agreements, SAR and
the President's Memorandum were adequate in the light of the Project objectives
and in providing a useful framework for reviewing project implementation. The
SAR and the President's Memorandum were quite adequate compared to the other
project documents. For instance, while both documents proposed the holding of
annual consultations with the Malaysian counterparts on interest rates, the
Minutes of the Negotiations, as well as subsequent supervision reports, however,
did not indicate any such discussion. As far as institutional data is concerned,
SDB Progress Reports were useful in evaluating financial and economic impact of
its subprojects. BIM, however, did not provide the Bank with Progress Reports.
The data supplied by BIM and SDB for preparation of Part III of the PCR was
insufficient and required further reconciliation with Bank's records. On the
other hand, the Bank's management of subproject and disbursement documentation
were not satisfactory. The Bank's documentation were not also readily available
for most "above the free limit" subloans.



- 10 -
12.       Main Lessons
12.1      The main lessons learned or again confirmed, with implications for
other Bank financed projects, are s=mmarized below:
(a)  The relending interest rate of a Bank project should be market-
oriented and the Loan should be demand-driven.
(b)  A credit operation should be carried out in an overall context of the
financial sector taking into account the issues of directed credit
programs and interest rates.
(c)  DFI has not been an effective vehicle for addressing financial sector
issues. A more broad based financial intermediary operation should
have been considered.
(d)  Bank should allow adequate  time  to learn  the  lessons  from  the
operational experience of previous projects.  A new project usually
will try to correct for the shortcomings of preceding project(s), and
its preparation by definition requires analysis of the ongoing
operation. Therefore, compromises made to meet lending targets and
the tendency to let the current project proceed without major input
from earlier projects should be avoided.
(e)  The quality of retail-level institutions is crucial to the success of
a credit operation. This Project did not provide useful lessons on
financial intermediation in Malaysia because the Bank was left with
PFIs that were marginal in the overall context of the financial
sector.



- 11 -
Page 1
LOAN 2770-MA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANK INDUSTRI MALAYSIA BERHAD
A.    IqNTODUCTION
Under this project the International Bank For Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) extended a loan of US$20,000,000 to Bank Industri Malaysia Berhad
(BIMB) for the financing of investment projects in March 1987. The loan was
trminated in December 1989 with the cancellation of the balance of
US$5,300,000. The cancellation was made as the loan was no longer attractive
when compared to the loans granted by the Japanese banks.
B.    PERFORMANCE OF IBRD AND BIMB
During the evolution and implementation of the project, there were no major
hitches. The loan agreement, disbursement and replenishment of funds were
carried out expeditiously. For this, credit must be accorded to [BRD for the
smooth implementation of the project.
As for BIMB, no major problems were encountered. Upon securing of the loan,
sub-loans were granted to a number of local companies. The majority of these
companies have grown in size and prospered. BIMB was able to stimulate
growth in the core sectors of the Malaysian economy and upgrade the technology
of these sectors. The availability of the loan from this project has given BIMB
the impetus in its quest to become a financier of high technology investments.
During this period, the IBRD and BIMB has maintained a good and professional
relationship in implementing the project.



- 12 -
Part 11
Page 2
C.    LESSONS LEARNED
Despite the smooth and successful implementation of the project, BIMB's
performance in term of earnings from the granting of sub-loans was less than
satisfactory. BIMB had fixed the interest rate for most of its sub-loans between
8.0 - 8.5% per annum whereas IBRD rate to BIMB was variable and highest rate
recorded was 7.92%. Hence the margin to BIMB was very thin. In addition,
there was a commitment fee of 3/4% on the unutilised portion of the loan.
As BIMB's lending rates were fixed, the project would have been more attractive
if the interest rate charged by the IBRD was also fixed like the loans extended
by the Japanese banks to BIMB.
D.  CONCLUSION
This loan has enabled BIMB to finance 17 projects, the bulk of which were for
the purchase of computer numerically controlled (CNC) and other advanced
machinery. This has to some extent contributed to the upgrading of the overall
level of technology of the core sectors of the economy, which is vital for the
industrialisation of the country.
PREPARED BY:         BANK INDUSTRI MALAYSIA BERHAD
JANUARY 1993



- 13 -
Part H
Page 3
LOAN NO 2771-MA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SABAH DEVELOPMENT BANK
Borrower:    Asian Supply Base Sdn Bhd (ASB)
I.    IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
ASB, wholly owned by Sabah Energy Corporation, (a statutory body owned by
the Sabah State Government) is an offshore supply base providing centralized
logistic support services and facilities to meet the requirements of the oil and gas
exploration, development and production activities around the region.
The consortium loan of RM43.0 million was granted to ASB in July 1987 to part
finance Phases I and II of the expansion and modification of the supply base with
SDB's participation of RM7.0 million in the above loan sourced from the World
Bank line.
The implementation of Phases I and II west smoothly and were completed in May
1988. The actual project cost of RM93.7 million was slightly higher than the
estimated cost of RM91.0 million. This, however, did not deter the completion
of the project. The term loan was fully drawn down in March 1988 and is now
in repayment stage. Debt servicing is considered good with prompt payment
from ASB.
H.    RELATIONSHIP WITH SDB
ADB does not have a direct relationship with SDB as all dealings are through the
Agent Bank, Namely Aseambankers Malaysia Bhd.   Nevertheless, the
relationship with SDB can still be considered good. Submissions of accounts and
project status reports from ASB have been prompt.



- 14 -
EAPLU
Page 4
Borrower:    SABAH PORTS AUTHORITY
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
The Kota Kinabalu Port Expansion Project was completed under the supervision
of a foreign engineering consultant firm and was completed without any major
problems.
The total project cost for the above project was estimated at MR109 million as
compared to the original cost of around MR61.9 million. The increase in the
cost is partly due to the construction of the project on a turn-key basis i.e.
payment is only to be made upon completion of the project. The payment date
was fixed on May 23rd, 1988. Besides that, the method of payment of the
project was fixed on two currencies i.e. Malaysian Ringgit and Japanese Yen.
During the construction period, the Japanese Yen appreciated and eventually
doubled the Malaysian rate, this resulting a loss in foreign exchange for SPA.
II.    RELATIONSHIP WITH SDB
A syndicated loan of MR85 million was lead-managed by Sabah Development
Bank Bhd and provided by a consortium of local banks. The syndicated loan was
refinanced for a more favorable interest rate in 1989 and under the same year,
the Authority made a prepayment of MR10.5 million.  Servicing of the
syndicated loan is in accordance to the payment schedule.
III.   OPERATIONAL PROBLEMS
The project is running smoothly, infact, it has contributed to the increase in the
export of sawn timber through Kota Kinabalu port because of the hugh open
space on the wharf being created. The south jetty under this project is also
running smoothly since it completion.



- 15 -
Part H
Page 5
Borrower:    DESA TALISAI SDN BHD
I.    IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
The syndication of the RM20.0 million term loan took about 19 months (Nov 87
- June 89). The unanticipated delays in the syndication would be attributed to the
following:
1)    negotiation on terms and conditions of the loan both at the initial and
during documentation stages; and
ii)    clarification on legal status of one of the shareholders in giving
undertaking to meet shortfall in working capital of the borrower.
Nevertheless, the development of the oil palm estate was not interrupted by the
delay in loan syndication. This was made possible partly with bridging finance
amounting to RM5.0 million by Sabah Development Bank Bhd pending
finalisation of the syndication.
The bridging loans were repaid with the first disbursement of the syndicated term
loan.
H.    RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BANK AND BORROWER
SDB has been considerate and understanding in responding to borrower requests
on interest revision and changes in disbursements schedule.
In February 1990, the interest pricing for non World Bank tranche was reduced
in line with current market rates.
In September 1990, allocation for 1991 was brought forward to 1990 in order to
allow earlier drawdown to meet additional cost for the accelerated development
of infrastructure (housing).
m.    OPERATIONAL PROBLEMS
Due to unavailability of detailed topographical map, the cost of land preparation
was slightly under estimated particularly in terms of terracing and drainage.
Owing to lack of data in oil palm yield projection in Sabah, the production of oil
palm turned out to be better than anticipated. Yields of oil palm have so far been
above projections.



- 16 -
Page 6
Borrower:    TWENTY FIRST CENTURY OLEOCHEMICALS SDN. BHD. (TFCO)
I.    IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
In the early 1990, Twenty First Century Oleochemnicals Sdn Bhd (TFCO)
undertook the establishment of an Oleochemical plant in Pasir Gudang Johor.
However, the Agent Bank of the syndicated loan namely Rakyat Merchant
Bankers Bhd (RMB) failed to conclude the loan syndication. As a result,
International Finance Corporation (IFC) was brought in as a shareholder (RM2.0
million) as well as to provide additional term loan to the project.
The project cost was revised to RM53.26 million which were financed by equity
(RM10.0 million), term loan from TFC (RM9.25 million) and term loan from
IFC (RM20.935 million, syndicated term loan from SDB and RMB (RML1.0
million) and working capital loan from RMB (RM2.075 million). the increase
in project cost was mainly due to provision of escalating and contingency cost.
(RM6.3 million), provision of working capital (RM4.0 million) and provision of
interesting during construction period (RM1.5 million).
II.    RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BANK AND ALL PARTIES CONCERNED
The working relationships amongst all parties concerned are considered
satisfactory except for RMB, the Agent bank, we find that they are at time slow
in delivering TFCO's requests to us and also our request for information.
Except for the project cost overrun, the implementation of the project was in time
and was satisfactory. Our working relationship with borrower are considered
cordial and satisfactory.



- 17 -
Part T
Page 7
mll.   OPERATION PROBLEM
The actual project cost incurred was RM61.5 million. The project cost overrun
(RM8.2 million) was due to increase in the cost of main process plant (RM4.9
million) and auxiliaries (RM3.2 million) which were caused by the appreciation
of US dollars exchange rate against RM. The project cost overrun was financed
by an additional term loan of RM6.0 million from Perwira Habib Bank (PHB)
and raw materials suppliers.
TFCO started trial production in July 1991 and commercial production in
February 1992. During the first year of production, TFCO faced teething
problems on quality relating to:
i)    Odour/colour stability for TPSA.
ii)    Fatty acid & tester for glycerine.
iii)    Chain length & colour for C8 + CIO.
C)   Higher purity of fatty acid and fractionated products like C12 & C14.
On Management, there was a high turnover on the key management members of
TFCO (which including the chief executive and the senior financial manager)
over the implementation period.
TFCO has requested indulgence from the bankers to reschedule the repayment
of all the loans (from 3 years to 5 years). At the same time, TFCO proposes to
bring in additional cash injection of about $4.0 million to take care of their cash
flow requirement. A decision of our end has yet to be reached.



- 18 -                         PART III
Tables 1 and 2
PART III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans
Title                           Purpose                       Year of         Status
l ___________                                                        Approval
Small-Scale         To provide institutional investment credit for  October      Closed (June
Enterprise Project   small-scale enterprises (SSEs), primarily owned    1984     1990)
(Loan 2471-MA)      by Bumiputera, through two development finance
banks (BPMB and MIDF), and to expand and
rationalize the technical assistance (TA)
programs for SSEs through six participating
agencies.
2. Project Timetable
Item                 Date Planned          Date Revised           Date Actual
1. Industrial Development Finance Project
Identification            November 1984                               November 1984
Initiating Project Brief  February 1985                  -            February 13, 1985
Preparation               February/March 1985            -            March 1985
Project Brief             May 1985                       -            September 24, 1985
Preappraisal Mission      July 1985                      -            July/August 1985
Appraisal Mission         July/August 1985      September/October    October 6-27, 1985
1985
2. Development Finance Project
Issues Paper              November 1985                  -            November 11, 1985
Decision Memo            November 1985                   -            December 6. 1985
Loan Negotiations        March 1986             August 1986           October 14-16, 1986
Board Approval            February 1986         April/June 1986       December 16, 1986
Loan Signature                                                        March 13, 1987
Loan/Guarantee           March 1987                      -            May 22, 1987
Effectiveness
Loan Closing             September 30, 1991     December 31, 1991     December 31, 1991
Project Completionja     December 31, 1991    June 30, 1992           December 31, 1991
L Deadline for presentation of subloan or investment applications was December 31, 1989.



- 19  -                                 PART  III
Table 3
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
BIM (Loan 2771-MA)                        SDB (Loan 2771-MA)                                     Total
Year &      Estimated    Actual      A                 Estioated              Actual       A           Estimated        Actual    A
Semester                             OE                                                    OB                                     QE
(%'c)   OriWal    Rev(         Rovised               (       Original    Rvise 
I__ _ _   _ __ _ __                        _ _  _      (1)   1   (2)     _  _ _ _              _ _  _       d      _ _  _ _  _ _ _
1987 2nd      400          =         =         900                                                    1100               =         =
1988 1st    1,400                            3,150          1,000                                    4,550
1988 2nd    4,000          1,500      375   9,000           9,400                                   13,000      5,800     1,500    115
1989 ist    7,600          2,624      34.5   17,100        21,000                                   24,700     10,800     2,624    10.6
1989 2nd   11,200          3.706      33.1  25,200         32,800                1,500      6.0     36,400     16,800     5,206    14.3
1990 1st   14,200          5,187      36.5  31,950        43,800      3,500      1,500      4.7     46,150     24,800     6,687    145
1990 2nd   16,600          5,985      36.1  37,350                    6,500     3 ,38       8.7     53,950    31,300      9,223    17.1
1991 Ist    18,200         6,700      36.8  40,950             -    10_,00      9,722      225      59,150     36,800    16,422    27.8
1991 2nd   19,200         12,449      64.8  43,200                   14,000     9,722      23.7     62,400    40,000     22,171    355
1992 1st   20,000 /a      12,449      62.2  45,000                   17,500     9,722      21.6     65,000          -    22.171    34.1
1992 2nd       -               -         -  45,000 lb                20,000     10,000     22.2     65,000      _        22,449    345
Date of
Final                June 10, 1991                            January 23, 1992
Disburse-
ment
/a Loan amount of S5.30 million was cancelled as of December 28, 1989 and S2.25 million was cancelled as of December 31, 1991.
lb  Loan amount of S25.0 million was cancclied as of June 8, 1988 and S10.0 million was cancelled as of August 29, 1989.
I A = Actual
OE = Original Estimate



- 20 -                          PARTM
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
4. Status of Bank Covenants
IX'-;S-- eityX  X 0V'on0      08 t;;- Stab-      0 -X0Subje                            Remarks
Loan Agreement BIM (,oan 2770-MA)                                        _
2702(c)         Borrower shall open and maintain a special account i a   Complied
fully convertible currency on terms and conditions
sabifactory to the BankR
2.03(c)         Borrower shal present subloa/investment appction on    Complied
or before December 31, 1989
4.02(aXii)      Borrower shal unih to the Bank audited financul          Complied with slight delay.
gtatements and Special Account within six months of end of
each fi    ar                                          _
4.02(b)         Borrower shal mauntain (and retain until at klt one year    For compliance
after the Bank ha receied the audit report) separate
records and acuts reflecting SOEs
4.04            Bornoner sh   mantai its long-term consolidated debt-    In compliance, rtio well below the limit
equity ratio within 5:1
4.07            Bank and Borrower shafl exchange vws with regald to the    In compliance
administtion, operatons and finanl condition of the
Borrower
4.09(b)         Borrower shall recycle the payments received in enxces of  For compliance
its repayment obligations from subborrower in accordance
with the Statement of Operational and Funancial Policies
Schedule 1 (as   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan                  Compled, as amended on August 12 1988
amended)
Schedule 5      Terms and Conditions of Subkan and Investments           Complied. last annual interest rate rceew was
in June 1989, and deadline for subloan
applications was December 31, 1989.



- 21-                        PART m
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
Sectioti                            Sublje                                            Remaks
Loan Agreement: SDB (Loan 2M-MA)
2.02(c)         Borrower shall open and maintain a speial account in a  Compbied
fuUly convertible currency on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank
2.03(c)        Borrower shall present subloan/investment applications on    Complied
or before December 31, 1989
4.02(a)(ii)     Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, audited fmancial    Complied with slight delay.
statements and special account within nine months of end
of each fiscal year.
4.02(b)         Borrower shall maintain (and retain until at least one year    For compliance
after the Bank has received the audit report) separate
records and accounts reflecting SOEs
4.04            Borrower shall maintain its long-term consolidated debt-  In compliance, ratio well below the limit.
equity ratio within 5:1
4.07            Bank and Borrower shall exchange views with regard to the   In compliance
administration, operations and finAnciA condition of the
Borrower
4.09(b)         Borrower shall recycle the payments received in excse of  For compliance
its repayment obligations from subborrowers in accordance
with the Statement of Operational and Fiancial Policies
Schedule I (as   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan                 Compled, as amended on January 7, 1988.
amended)
Terms and Conditions of Subloans and Investments        Complied, last annual interest rate review was
Schedule 5                                                              in July 1990, and deadline for subloan
applications was December 31, 1989.
Minutes of     Discontinuation of nominated projects                   In compliance
Negotiations    _
Guarantee Agreement
2.02            Guarantor shaU charge each Borrower a fee of 1%.        Complied
2.03            Guarantor shall review with the Bank and each of the    Complied
Borrowers the interest rates on the subloans



- 22  -                                PART m
Table 5
5. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff InRuts
(in Staff Weeks)
Task            FY83    FY4    FY5    FY86    FY            FM       FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FMY3    TOl
Project Preparation      .5       32    39.9       22.3              -                                                    65.9
Projet Apprisal                            -       25 5     4.                                                            29.7
Project Negotiations     _                 _        =       1.1      _        = 
Lending Devtlopment                                                           1 =  |  -  -  -  L6        =        =        16
Lending Operation                 13      5.7       17      4.9      -        -                                           13.6
Supervsion                                                  L -  -  18    10.1  6.7   5.0       2.3      14        -      27.3
PCR Preparation          _.1                                                                    -        -        5 0      51
Projet Adiin                      =                           11
Advice&Review h                            -          8       4      -         -       -                                   1.2
Total                     5       4.5    45.7      50.4    12.5    10.1       8.3     5.1       2.3      1.4      50    145 7
B.   Misjsons
Stlg of Project       Month/Yeat       No. of Peulru       Days i Field       Spedalization       Pcrfornmance          Types of
Cydl                                                __                    Represented         Rating Satus        Problemg
11/84               2                   14                 4 a/d
03/85               7                   14! La             d
Tbrough Appnial            07185                2                   14                /d                                               |
10/85               3                   21 /a             /d
01/86               2                   12                1d
Appraisal though           04/86                1                   15 lb        Dcv. Ftnance
Board Approval             6-7/86               1                   22 L         Dcv. Fnance
Board Approval                .                 .
through Effectiveness
Supervision  I             11/87                3                   17 /a1                              Minor                No
Disbursements I
11               02/88 /e              1                    5           Dcv. Fmnance          Moderate              No
Disbursements
Im                 06/88                2                   5 la              /d              Moderate        Dcvclopment
Impact, and
OverIlI Status
IV               03/89 Lf              1                    7 /a        Dcv. Finance          Moderate       Development
Objective,
V                 6/89L                1                    3          Dcv. Finance                          Prrjcct
Management,
VI                 10/90               2                  11 lb              /d                              and Overall
vII               08/91                 1                   5 L           Economist                           Status
/a Combined with Superviion of Small-Scale Enterprisc (SSE) Project
|b  Combined vith SuperUViion of SSE Project and Preparation for the Study of Development Fance Institutions.
|  Combined with Dceveopment Finance Institutions Study, and general industriai sector lending discusions.
|d Mission comprised of at leat one economist and one development finance specialist.
|l Msion cowered only SDB.
IL MiAon covered only BIM.



- 23 -                               Part III
Table 6.1
6.1 BIM: Industrial Subsector and Regional Distributions of Subprojects
ISUBPROJEC 1                                                   REGIONAL
NO             NAME OF SUBPROJECT    ISECTOR                  DISTRIBUTION
A-1  !LOH KIM TEOW ENG. SON BHO   IMOULD AND DIE          'PENANG
A-2   SABAH SHIPYARD SON BHD      ISHIPYARD                ,SABAH
A-3   METTUBE (MI SDN BHD         ISTEEL MILL              iSELANGOR
B-1  ,C.S YAP ENGINEERING SDN BHD    MACHINE SHOP          :SELANGOR
B-2  IGALLANT PRECISION TOOL & ENG .  MOULD AND DIE       ISELANGOR
I SDN BHD
B-3  !TECHNOPRO CORPORATION SON BHOELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC   FEDERAL TERRrTORY
B-5   PERFECT AUTO INDUSTRY SON BHD I COMPONENTS MANUFACTURING I FEDERAL TERRITORY
B-7   SUN TONG SENG MOULD-TECH    IMOULD AND DIE           SELANGOR
SON BHD
B-B   ALLOY AUTOMOTIVE SDN BHD    !COMPONENTS MANUFACTURING IFEDERAL TERRITORV
B-9  !D-R ENGINEERING SDN BHD     MOULD AND DIE           IFEDERAL TERRITORY
B-10   KIEN HING INDUSTRY SDN BHD  MACHINE SHOP            ;SELANGOR
B-i    NGA CHEONG METAL IND.SDN BHD IMACHINE SHOP          !SELANGOR
B-12   FORDEX SON BHD             IFABRICATION            ISELANGOR
B-13  IP&S MECHANICAL ENG.SDN BHD   jMOULD AND DIE        ISELANGOR
B-14  ISUM HING ENG. WORKS SON BHD   I MOULD AND DIE      !FEDERAL TERRITORY
B-15  'GE SUNNY DALE IND. SDN BHD    FCOMPONENTS MANUFACTURING ISELANGOR
B-17  IMICASTER SDN BHD           IFOUNDRY                 ISELANGOR



0.2   BIM: Financial Characteristics of Subprojects                                                                                                 Part III
Table 6.2
|5LPIKMEC         -      -iiNAE  F                  8lTPE                         ASSETg           PAO.Cr         LOAN _   _UIEST   LODTE4O    SOLO3 OF                                        LOAN DiSBURSMD
fO                  SUJPAO&CtT                 OWHERSHIP  f PRttECT BEFORE MWW4G                 Cr              tSW    RATIE       PX.ACE    FWR4                       REMARKS           soKUCE: w
___  __   _  ("  __  ^  ("_ __ _ _M_ a                         A)                                                                          APPF,OX.MSOOO
A-tI     t OA KIM TEOWV ENG SONSH11D           PRfIVAE       ExPAtNSION             1 23000     1.155,650  0 55.;5         805%       9 Vy..,     1rd - 8217%           253884 o-d..        |     64
Intosmol Fund - 1I 3% 
A 2       .AHAh SUISIPYARD SDN 8d11            1'IIIVAIE     FxfPANSiC N          8') 6t(6 0m    5 338 574   2.706.570       8 5v    85  - .       18)RD - 95%                                  2,162
.nt.,n.I Fund - 15%   No A,,..,.
A        M  It I lf11 (f,4 I) 'PI fi i             JOINT r       t I                     -t411  127( iltt)1  20f) (X)n       a TAI    10 n-"       Equ-ty  28 35%        NoN.A ,,              19,937
8RD0- 15 75%
Con,rn B.n1 - 55 11%'1.
a I      C S YAI' UNG 5D1) 11 11)              'RIVAIE       f XPAr .1Mr             121 7,7 I     94A 175,    5lX(XIJ           8 Yv    a 25 V..,.    lHD - 72%         lu A,...,,               510
I,t.r,,.I F-nd 27H .
8 72     .Al I 11111 1- llfl(I   1 '4G ;fHl HHD   'IhiVAI   FXIPAW1,trI             195 ',4A     617; 177     4'1J 271      8 57,7   5 15 y..u"    BR0 - 78 7%          t3 7 7, I ond,.          505
Equity -21.3%
H -1     rI CNIItiOPO C   P(ri) flAIO N S )t111110 lIRIVAIE       f 4w                   N4i1     E.50,000    2()  9X 80             8 5% V..,.   48R0-3-30 6%          CGomw.ny u                199
IDB - 38 4%          I.g1o  cI.on
Internal Fund - 30 8%
a 5      PFIlFFCC  AUIOIN7DISIly SDN HI8D   PRIVATl          F XPATISI7)r4           7,28d8       975,01)      777 524       85%   S 75 Y..,.  ID  -81 0%                Lo.,, -.sf,IIy,.p.       781
Int.,nsl Fund - 19 04.
8 7      SIIN Tt0N4  SFr4N. MfI 1r) TFCH       PRIVAIF       FIlPClDtorI             8135.753     S16 042     6'0.(00        8 01%    7 5 V-,l   IB0  - 75 3%            No A.....               694
SDN  1HD                                                                                                                                  Inte-nal Fund - IS 0%
O_rdnr7t - 7 3%
R 8      Al I OY AtlIIOMO1IVE SON M0ID        IPRIVATIF     FXIPAWI1414            2517.043     2,060(000   1.539,525        80U.    8 a  *Yors    fBRD-77 7%            NoA. r.               1,555
Intrn.I Fund - 1150%. 0%
0,,wdrftl - 73%
a-8     0 A ENrINEERINCG SDN RHD               PRIVATF      fVXPANl()I4               37,588     1 060,000    7rn,0Cn        85%'.    GY..,.    I4R80-66%                No A..,.                713
Equity - 30 7%
Ov*nd,att - 3 3%
e-aO     ELITI1ir1. i"Njuj,lIlR 1 .1DH Lru()   I'iIVAIIL     L zI'A1A,I0tI4         2 2z) W1J      648 LILr    4H8e 02       8 5q      a YV.,.    IBR0 - 73 5%          1No A...s                 495
Ow..d,.tt - 23 1%
R I I    NC.AI CI IFPIW- Mf I AI NAO SON RND )PRIVATE r         XF'At4'WI1t4         152 4JI       7319 0n0)    520 95,4     8 0      52 5 Y-re,  ISRO - 73 5%           No A...,.                558
Intafnal Fund - 13 0%
Ov.rd,.fl - 13 5%
H 12      1 a)141)t x SI)TN Bi l               XlilVA II I*       I *.                   tilt    2 57T Ct)   1.714 411       8 57     8 5 V..,6    lR8    - 76 0%       Ulde, l.g.I *IlI        1,388
Equity - 24 0%       J3276 oe.,du.
tl 13 T  i A S f (IAiAIWAI I 4, ';[)N RU110   li4IVAli       I 111AW1,41              rrj 946      510 ((an    4(0 232       8 0C      8 Y..,.     fRD - 76 5%           No A.,..                 415
Intmn.I Fund  273 5%
8 14     'IJAl 1ING Er,114i wl1i(S SID01Rtt1   PRIVAI        E(XPAI 4;,,             81,7,57     117,( I W 00]    Q1 n)or    85%  8Y? V-.  IB R0-87%                     N.oA ....               908
Intwfnel Fund  13%
a 15 GF& SUNiNY DAL L Iri1) SDN1 Bll[)         ilIiVAI           r f v                   Nil    2.,525 (x    1,1I1. 23]      800       6 YV,.    IRD - 50 5%             No A.....              1,203
Etfuity - 4n S5%
nI1      MICA'; If 1i RIN . 1  'it              RfilVA I r      141                      NIlt   27,2Ys,on   1.053.415        8 5%     7 5 Y,.   IBRD- 53 7%              716.747 ov,du.          952
Equity - 30 0%?
O.mrdtut: - 14 3%
I WINC,C1 I M At A V SIA Ill M)
TOTAL                33,939



Part III
6.3  BIM: Economic Contribution/Performance of Subprojects                                                                       Table 6.3
SUBPAOJECi             AE OF                                         TYPE:                Foe N EXCH. *4EICTAL BPOY  4VIEST. COST                       ECO. RATE
NO              SlMPROJECT                  PRODUCT LINE         IMPORT SUSJS)W'ORTS EARfAVED ESTIMATEDACTUAL    PER JOB               TOTAL PROFTT OF REtJRN
A-l    LOHKIA TEOWENG SDNBHD          PRECISIONTOOLSANDDtFS            EXPORTS              N/A               25                46.226       118,661    30 0%
A-2    SABAH Sli1PYARD SDN HOD        OFFSHORE FAHRICATION                N/A               N/A              496                          (5,542,429)  3fJ 3%
A-3    METTURE (M) SDN BHO           COPPER TLlBES               IMPORT SUBSTITUTION        N/A              210                             23.451    19 0%
B-I    C S YAP' ENGINEERING SDN HHD  PRECISION MACHINING
COMP. AND FORGED PARTS    IMPORT StJBSTITUTION        N/A                4               173G689        70.382   22 8O.
0 2    GALI ANT IVRECISION TI001  ENG  PRECISION MOUI OS AND DIES  IMPORT SUBSTITUTION      N/A                7                90,740       (76h,49)   25 3%
SDN BHD
B-3    IEC1INOPto COlHPOUATION       PRINTED CIRCLJIT BOAFlD     IMI'Oii SUJRSliTUIION     N/A              13                            N/A         30 0%
SON BHO
H-5    PERFEC-T AlltO INDUSTRV       AIRCONDAtION COMPONFNlS  IMPlR I StJRSTITUTION        N/A               8I               121.875     N/A         2n 30%
SDN RHD
B-7    SUN TONG SENG  UOtJI D-TECH   PRECISION MOUt D)S AND DIES  IMPORT SUBSTITUTION       N/A                3               305.341       104,844   33 2%                       FUI
SDN 8HD
B 8    At LOV AUTOMOTIVE SDON BHO    ALUMINIUM ALLOVS WIIEELS          EXPORTS              N/A               14               147.143       135,7     27 1%
B-9    D-R ENGINEFRING SDN 8110      PRECISIOH MOUI l)S AND DIES  IMPOR T SUIRST17UTION     N/A               5                212.00        265,532   23 7%
B -10    IFN IIING INDIISTRY SON fIID   PRESS PARTS AND
PRECISION MACHINING         IMPaORT SUBSTITUlION      N/A              100                             9.17.C,   3/6%
R 11  tlI,Al M 111 CIO  U  MlAt IND St)N flH PRECISION4 OIf SETS
ANDPRESSEDPAIIIS           IUMORI StJBSTITUTION       N/A                4               184,150       301.084   363%
8-12    f ORDEX SON 8RHV              STEEL FURNITURE             IMPOnT SUBSTITUTION       N/A               36                     -     N/A         25 2%
8-13    P & S MECHANICAL ENG SDN OHD PRECISION MOUt DS            IMPORT SUBSTITUTION       N/A                3               170,0:0         6,230    27 9%
8-14    SUM HING ENG WORKS SDN BHD  TYRE MOULDS                   IMPORT SUBSTITUTION       N/A               36                    -        146.370    28 9%
e-15    GE SUNNY DALE IND SDN BHD    EARPHONES A SHAVERSCREEN           EXPORTS             N/A               a                     -       (768.176)   30 8%
8-17    MICASTER SON 811D             METAL CASTING               IUPORT SUBSTITUTION       N/A               36                     -     N/A         24 1%
RINGGIT MALAYSIA (RM)



Pat III
Table 6.4
6.4: SDB: Financial and Economic Characteristics/Performance of SLibprojects La
Subprojeo          Subpmjeet         Ownership          S9tor              Natvrt       Asset Ske           Pojcct Cost             Amount of Loan         Effetive       Amortization
Nunber               Namne                                                               before            (MS million)               (MS million)          Intwreat        (Years)
financing                                                         Rate (%)
:     : (MS nih)    0 Estimated  Actual  Total       of Which
:  _ _ _ _ ::_ _ _ _                         _   __                            __ 0   :         :              :    :  ::TBRD      _ ._    ___
A.2 lb        Asian Supply Base    Public           Misc.               Erpansion            61.75         90.96        93.73       43.00          8.73          11.75                8
AA4 fb         Sabah Port            Public         Port                Expansion           320.80        107.6(,       109.00       19.00         5.35           9.69                9
A.6 lb         Desa Talisai         Joint           Agri/Palm Oil       Expansion            1034          41.52         47.90       20.00        12.17          10.50                5
A.9 L          Oleochemicals         Private        Manufacturing       New                     nil         41.0         61.48      46.05          0.75            1.5                5
over coSt
Total                                                                        392.89        281.18       312.11      128.05         27.00
Subproct          Sakcs/         Net          Sbare                       Sources of Finncing l*)                     Inremental Employment    invenint Cost              Total 
Nar            Rev enue      Profit        Capital                                                                                                  per Job          Employment
1991        (ko-)        (M$ nil)       Equity               Ternm Loan $y.ndikation               Estimated       Actual         (M$'OOOa)
:: (MS0:         0;;t : ;0:; )                         5           0    ; :       0 :::SDB i t:0 :;0 :  O thers  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ __Dth
Asian Supply            26.85         2.69           23.99        n.a.            n.a            n,a             n,a.           n.a.           63                509                184
Sabah Port              81.12        11.28          156.27       15.9             7.6            11.2           65.3            n.a.          897                n.a.               na.
Dea Talisai              4.78         1.49           20.00       43.7             9.7            29.6           17.0            800           579                 65                n a.
_ _ _  _            ~~~~~~A       A          _               _          _               _                          __             _      _      _   __             __
Oleochemicals           1132         (0.63)          10.00       17.8             8.9             8.9           64.4            n.a.          110                559                110
Total                  124.07        14.83          210.26                                                                                   1,649
/a  ERRs are not available.
Lb  No repayment arrears were due as of December 31, 1992.
L   Cortnaneed by IfC  loan of MS 19.8 million or 353 percent of total financing. Interst in arrears as of December 31, 1992 was MS 341,933. In addition, the principal installment has been overdue since
December 20, 1992. The sales and profit/lm data reate to eight months between July 1991 and March 1992.
Id  Relates to 1990, the latest year ivailabic.
e  Relatea to only nine months January-September 1992.
Note: n-. is not available.



- 27  -                                            Part III
IIAP  M1m MALAVMA U .fD                                         Table 7.1
ei            t FL*" A   LUJTES
Smm cu7 p"                                          50M0,0         0,0 =    60,440,0   60.4,b.0   120,440,4D0  12.,41,b40
Rom* lips10,114,219   10,114,219   10,114.219   10,11 14.2    70,174,219  t0,7 14,21.0
Uv_ppruprw1  Pfi1                                    3 701,t08    5        Z77,MS   9      G,W l,rx e..7;,824   i0,576,.5
Trot &_% .o *m' tuna                                 w3s:,7     36011,7m    7t6,5,T2!    77,0ffT,4  130,610,:W  141.140,2
Tmm Mans                                                        1 74,4,34                22,2,43*,22  3MIS,84I 416,71,03T
Dwrr*d Wi1                                               - m               -                  -            m,o0       119,006
63,310,375  213,am7,40  2S7,eW7,3U  290,5=,01 1  40,251,24   57,971,3
C    U%N9f LIIKTZ3
Two Lmen                                            143=,28    228,:04   24,U0S=            t;&.       31,I14A,4   35,M, 10
Lon kw ECJ.                                              -          A31,42     1,415Z?9    1 Xw2w    51,1201S    18,448,194
Into   pg"i                                            ae 049       90,064    1 r25,67     2,=,4*W    3 ,0mt,        ^ 4A=,3
Othw  ~We mLnd scru&Jt                                19@,019       77t,1    1,12,010    2=,463    1,2258310    2..J2UI
Tm tmi p b                                           2,8777t    1,4d06,t         -           19s6o.      awu0.       3,0486,31,
ToJ current lTtbilbItt                            148 651,MS   25,W6,767   20.5&4,005   33.T2744   4a,5790 t   64.30,7
Acc.p4.nc., r      s .nd cod W          on
t.Vc" of cui e't"per wntm                            8,710,000    0,473.T2o   20,44,821    6,1,s   14,M,77              7,14t
Z21,118,711  2,015.l,644  2M,SW,t  39,7tM            9W,Btt1278t  t22,374,340
F    t) t  ,ETS                                        210,470      25a,75    25.653.    25,640,040   21&,t 517   26,210.172
MALAQt (t#"VAtHT SECEA.JTIEs                         9."7U.LDO   10,0t.Of    21,297.D7    20 27.5t     2 x2t,5006   20;.2,5xm
1 45 OOrs                                            S            s.x            -            -_
SWSWjB RY COMPAIE                                        -           -        19,40,9W    20,513,231  1Z,SM,6..e  120.783,757
A3O02ATEV CO"-^MY                                        -           -           -            -            72,4215     74,W*
LOAN DEBTORS                                             -       74,727.517   71.796,323  1s3,9(M,71  21' 916,534  253,12t,5
ClRENT ASEs
CSiA enn tenk twtano                                   292,U77    4d&0, I I    ,Z3,25     7,751,967    6,313,196    2,044,W
L)  4ts *no c6nfmnf incurIl.s                       0e604.0W0  1O,703,311   77,90,347   17,213,04S   8l"1,56 71,M0, 1 
Loen eDeora                                        1CIJ,711, 1s   32,43.,7%a   41,DW0,021   00,301,t .  9=t,43   a1r7,474,.
intwrnm nr1v.sl                                      2,5iB,51f    2,754,913    3,544,100    3.013,15   t,014,21    6,,77064
Ot8r,w dobaor. one piepsynts                         2,02298      4.290.         ,075,T9    3,341 167    4 o,821    5B,qw
177,2 1 8s   149,57 6 0  125   1X.21  112,=21,53  145213,57   190.51,Wl21
LhADWTXS OC  CUSTOME  "c AAO  'TAr#CE
sOJAMTES AND  TrIH  CMLJCATKM5 Po COfTfRA   S r10,0             MA q r3     20 434.821   98.51 ,M    14,mG T?         7,140
271.116,711  250, I64.4  25.wJ6,OW 33 9,70,71 2506  S 0,Z70M   OX74,340



Part III
- 28 -                                       Table 7.2
PROFTT AND LOW AOCOUNT
R   he yew En   1 Sat DOOMMwsit. I 86-i M
Qporettng rovenu                      10,705,510  14,147,655  14,005,783  16,206,952   24,56,407  30,a51,382
Proti tbeforttXntion                   5,907,527   2,937,567   (015,870)  1,006,030    3.210,094   5,355.512
Taxation                              (2,679,72M) 11,400,11T7   12,296    (850,000)  O1,069,000) (2.330,000)
prollt jiter taatlon                   3,027,799   1,576,390    (003,580)    3W,030    1.22,,94   2,525,312
-xtrawrdirary Item                       -           -       1,307,000      -          _           _
Profit .wr taxation end extraordinary item  -        -         703.420
U rupptopsd profIt at benlnring ot yesr  4,374,513   _       5,27.548   5,900,966    e,523.730   8,046,24
Prior yoar adjutment                                 -          -          184,734     -           -
,A remtatd                                -          -        5.277.546   6 165.700
Proflt lMlnDb tor approprmtion         7,402,312   1.570,390    -           -
Tranufer to rewrve                     3,701,158   3,701.156                -                 -
unapproprited profit at and of year    3,701,158   5,277,540   5.990,966   8.52n,730    8,046, 624  10,575,56



Part III
S ABAH  DE VELO0PM ENT  B AN K  BE RH AD                                                Table  8.1I
8 A L A N C E S H E E T (A C T U A L)
hj-Liaudited)
*         1~~~~~TEMSE               1992              1991              1990             1989              1999              1987              19866
:ASGSETS
Cash and Short Term Pru-nds        73335,14 :           1 . I 3. 75A 4  264.,  .OIt      24.76,30          218,191.422       17~W.U             6    .6
Inv.estme~nts                      106.470.:315:    134.153~,e84       132,824.7413      161.640.375       162,416.937 :     78.234.351        90.555.040
Loans and Adi/ances Recei.,able:   5522.482,861t :      S3.237 . 879 : 614.9-28.359      5W,1,614.77C0     676.181.B67 :   85.965.919 :       904,257.993
Subsidiaries                         7,191,(56 1       7.7&89.598        7.279.154         7.278,331         7,272,159         7,271,330         7.295.C043
Fie  Assets                   1         791,3j4l       1,116,046 1       1.514.010           799,681 1702,6185                   2 14, 066 1     1.321,523
Ott-er Assets                       27.5?4,917        :-6.447,63~4      :,1.582,388       31.525.650        41.244.974 :     51.453.652         72.388.716
TOJT(l  ASSETS                     898.488.654 1 9.43755 :   .r'54.433.724               984,698.11 I   :  1,106.010.044    1.0Y50.788.2-99    1.101.844,378
:LIABILITIES Pt]D
SHAREEI)1EERS' FIJJUSa
Denosits froin cuistomrs           4231,990,828:   524,?734.597        65R.763;.720      658,092.952       61e,1856.13-6    474,478.445       417.166,2t55
Long Term Borrowings                92,950. 249      t P:).9;74,57-,   141.6H2.657:       91,454,B809      290.1836,146     386.937.763:   501.763,515
Shorrt Term Borrowings        I      B,cV) ,(X%) I             0                 0                 0                 0        10.443,300        15 COO. OC()
Othe~r Liabilities            :     483,642,0--94 1    9. '1.38         4~. ER9), 949     4 '5.139,385 1    33.1i3,1 91       32,105,282        26.182.692
Total Liabilities63,3111    725,117,5':O(                              E 85r0.326,826    794.687,146      942,227,37        903.964.796       960.112.462
Share Capital                     -Z ,0;        :00                    151 .5CO.(Cor     143,300,000 1     123.300.000 1    110,000,000       11,00X0, 000 
Fk-,Ewves                 ~~~~64,90.5.523 1  58,766,2147       52,606.898        46.710,965 1     40,482,671        36.823-.5C03 :    31,73-1.916 
:Total Shar-eholders' h-nd%          264.905,523,     2.58,766,247     -2)4,106,898       190,010,965       163,782,671 1     146,823.503       141,731,916 
:TOTA L-IABILITIES AND
SI-kE"ILDERGS  RI11)-              898.488.654 : 983-,,833.759 :  1.054.43,3.724 : 984.698,111    1.106.010.044    I.CY50,788.2-99 :1.101.644,3,78
ICOMMlITM'ENTS AM) CONTINGENCIES :    11,590.629 1       5,457,344 1      2-9,774,160 :    23,805,733 1       17.613,678       51,34A2.845       50.452.249



Part III
S AB A H  DE V EL O PM ENT  B AN K  BE RH AD                                                   Table  8.2
B A L A N C E S H E E T (P R O J E C T E D)
-----.~~~~~~~~~-                                     - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - --  - - -  - -    - - - - - - - - -  -- -
(tO:t:l)                       1992                1991        :                            1989                1988                1987                 198b6
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~===-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --------   -----
ASSE TS
Cash and Short Term Furnds                    7t.t                1144147             127,721              42,552                5.901               O.,501             53,60?
Investments                       :          15),575             125,135              142,666             224,787              64,249              61,833               85,719
Loans and Advances Receivable:               576,062             57L,407              666,462 t           531,242 t           802,641              791,154             908,683 1
Subsidiaries                                   7.789                7.2BO1              7,274               7,278                7,271  1            7.271               7,295
Fixed Assets                                      963               2,120               1673Z                  623                 704                  740               1,268 1
Other Assets                                   8,185               12,591              34,330              32,156               19,820       7       3,412       .      29,923
=-  -====_   ==         =====_==== -  - =----==---__  8------=_ -=   ====                               ===-        =====-
TOTA  ASSETS                                 813,642 -           832,725E)           980.126              e38638             900,586              924,911           1,08634954  1
:LIABILITIES  14D:
'SHPFREHOLDERS' F W DS:
Deposits from customers                      336.922             365.996              491,453             445,035             322,667              271,917             397,213
Lcng Term nBorrrowinqs                        90,113:             156,CR9             199.295             169,929             381,091              462,985             514,527
ShDrt Term Borrowings              :          90 , ':K):           20),(c)                   0                   0               1,778              11,000                4,175
Other Liabilities                            M3..76                  5,5               40.162              30,769              32,790               28,963              72,949
:--  -- - - -----  --------:--    - --- -    -     - - -- - --                                       -    ------    --_-----   ----------_-__--__________________.
Total Liabilities                            553,0:2             577,638              730.910             645,733             738,326             774,865              948,864
:                    - a                                                       _________________  -   _- -     --- -     --------    - -------------    -  -     --- - -
Share Capital                      :         2tvX),oX'  2:%,OCK)                      2C0,000             151,500             126,000              120,000             110,000 1
Reserves                                      59,840              54,942               49,216              41,405 I            36,260               30,046              27,631
--  - -  - - ---    I - - - - -  - - -   - -  - - - - ----   - - --   -  --- -:  1                                        ---- - - - - - - - -
:Total S[areholders   funds                    259.840             254,942              249,216             192,905             162,260              150,046b            137,631
:TOTAL LIABILITIES ANDM                                  :
SH1 DERS  FLI4DS                             813.642 :825  1c                 -       980, 126            838,638            900,56 6             924,911           1,086,495
:COMI1TMENTS AND CONTINGEUCIES :                 2.5395               7,(KX  1           33,000              12,545              26,498               16,753              87,480
==__=====8__   ===============------- ==-=====    =====.==                                         ===-=--'8__                      _   8======   ====_======
(1)



Part III
Table 8.3
S ABA H  DE V EL O PM ENT  R AN K  BE RH AD
I N C 0 M E S T A T E M E N T (A C T U A L)
:  (unaudited)
ITEMS              :       ?192      :      19I        :       99':'             1989              1988              1987               198b6
:IIN:CJ-E                              ;      7s    29.'945., ,: 23.:4 .  '' . i883.724   : '.  .-19           3C),.66.908       27,546,2.67   : .)27,B.'6
IEXFENDITUIRE            :(IC0,381.152):                 1_.' 50.257)l    (I1. 262,04 I):    (21.952.437): tl6,1810,030):    (16,969,2='):    ( 15,426,5-b6):
:PRffIT EF-ORE TAXA11IN:               19.564.5-3,          .T5.l          13.,726.68,        18,040.682        14.186,878        10.577,C)84        4.831.300
:Ia>ation:                             (6.925.3:(6):      :.5'E.458:       (?cI7,(yY))        (7.155..3'8):     (6.627,710):      (5,485,497):          319.141
:r4EI PRCFIT                           t 12,6h9.277     l1o.69.34?    : 0.819.683,           10,8B5,544         7.559,168         5,091.587          5.150.441
:RETAINED PFFIT                 '                 :
8ROJIGHT FORWARD                    16,066.246   :   15.4t:6.696 :       15,010,965        12.482,671   :   13,223,503          8,731,916          3,581.475
:PROFIT AVAILAaLE
FOR APRORIATION           :         28,7o5.523        23.066.247       -25.83V.648         23.368,215        21,382,671        13,823.503          8,731,916
:Transfer to General Reserve           (6.3(x).(::'):    r(5.5(ix,CKX)0):                     (3.700,000):      (5,000,000):                0                 0 :
:Interim Dividend of             :                 :                 :                 :
5%. less Tax                        (6.500.(v.A:,):   (6.5:0,CK):0):     (4.923.750):      (4,657,250):      43,900,000):                0                 0 :
:RETAINED PROFIT BROUGHT
FCORPD           :                  15,9Q3,523        t6,0566,247        15,406,698        15.010,965        12,482,671        13,823,503         8,731,916
(2)



EawI
Table 8.4
S ABA H  DE V EL O PM ENT  B AN K  BE RH AD
INC OM E  ST ATE MEN T (PRO J EC T ED)
(RI 000)              :        199^        :192      91        :       19'0                1989                 1988                1987                 1986
1rCE(JE                                        2?,7,61T.:?                                                   2.1                31.272e             24.400j              1t.(5
E iXPEJD ITURE~                                (15.6:30):           17. IC'):             1?. t*1          (16,358):           (17.315):           (823:(14,625)1
MPROFIT BEFORE TAXATION                         1.1                 12.521               16.496 :15,960 :13,957 :6,277208
Taxatio                                        (5,1 4):              4.699):            (7.29r:             (6,875):             (7,732):            (3,862):            (1,059):
NET PROFIT                                      9       :            7,8    :            8.667 :               .035               6225 :              2.45:                1021
-    -  -    -    - --                   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
:RETAINED PROFIT
: Anoi   FtR*4D                              14,51:              16,421               15.346               9,244              13,035                4,603 :              ,582
:PRFIT AVAILARE
: PPPROPRIATION                              22.64'  :            4,243               24.015              18.329              19,260                7016  :             4,60
:Transfer to General Reserve    :===.=======: 7==== =.                                          :           (3.500):                  0  =     =0= :                   =       0=
rIterim Dividpnd of                 :                                                    8
5:   less Tax                    :6,5X'(66.CK.: 6                                            ):            4,924):                  0                   0 :                  0
:RETAINED FPRFIT BRJ-T
F:OROUGHTD                                   II 440              13.843               12.515               9,905              19,260                7,018 :4,603 :
-:-                          - - = :  :--  - - - - - - ~--               - -  : -   -      -    I    -    --:-   - -   :                 :-- - -   :=                             : = = - - - - - - -   *--2
:Transer toGenerl Resrve    :   5.74^::):      3,WX-)              {5.<>~w~l           13,50)                    0             O(:)



Part III
Table 8.5
S AB AH DE VELUP MEN T B ANK BE RHAD
(A C T U A L)
(uniaudited)                                      *
I TEMS               *      1992             1991              1990              1989              19BB              1987              1986
Operating Ir.ccsre                       73,8GM,23         76.073.C.69      71 .9&L0.255      64.284.20A        70,859,738        66,906.973        62,218,8B3B 
I Operatinwg Expenses                      5 4.290,655       tl7,715,262       5S.23z,572        66,243,3322       56,672,868        56,329,B69       57. 87,53B8
Profit Befowr- ray                       19.5b4.taT        I6. :57. 807     IF].726.68        1 22040,8B2 1     14.186,878 I      10.577,064         4.B31,300 I
IPr-ofit After Tay.                       12,639,2-7        12~,65;?.349      10,819.61E3       10,5865.544 1      7,559,1618 1     5,091,5187 1      5,130,441 11-
1 Petained Profit                   1     15,905,523        t6,0--66,247      15.406,898        15,010,965        12,482,671       13.8223,503        B ,731,916I
Gerneral FL-serve                  I     49,04X~),(KX0    42,7oo,CK(K       37.200,,000       31,700,000 I    218,000,000 1       23,000,000        23.000,000 I
Paid-up Capital                         2C((:E)$Xo0,)0 1     C_K)0K:i,C0W   151 ,500,000     143,300,000 1     123,300,000       1 IIC,000,000o    I 1o,000,000
1Total Assets                       1   696,48B,654 1   93,8813,755    1,054,433,724          984,698,111 1  1,106,010,044 11,050,786B,299 11,101,1344,376 I
Loans and Advances 
I ciutstanding(before Provision for I
Ifor Bad arid Dix,utful Debts)      1 563,128,430 1        612,916,366 1 656,726,387 I   572,535,333 I    701,290,470 1   823,6392,242 1 932,003,499 I
Total Deposits                         483,990,628       584.934,597       658,763,2220      6513,092,952 I   618B56,136         474,478.445       417,166,2=      W
1CERTIONP. INDICAT88S                                  11
:Eamning Per Share befare Iax(cents)1            9.78 19.31                         12.70 113.53 112.16 19.62 I4.39 
:Earning Pe-r Share after- Tax (cents).'          6.332             7.20 I           7.34 1             .17 16.498                         4.63              4.68 1
.Pre-Tax Return an Average                             ...I
Shareho~lders'Fun,ds I.)                          ?.5               7.9.5:                            10.2:              9.1               7.3:              3.5 
:After-Tax Return an Aver-age                          *I:
Paid-upCapital  Y.)                 *6.3:                          7.2:              7.3:             8.21              6.5 1             4.6:              4.7 1
lAfter-Tax Returm an Average                                                                                                                                      I 
I ToWa  Aets WV                      I             1.3 11.2 11.1 11.0 2                                                   0.7 1             0.5 10.5 I
(3)



Part III
Table'8.i6
S ABAH DE VE LOP MEN T B ANK BE RHAD
(P R 0 J E C T E D)
*          ~~~~~(AM'1Cto)1                  1992       :       1991       1       1990               1989       1       1988              1907               19B6 
-- - -- - - -- - - -- - - --      - - - - - - -  - - -------  --                           -  - -- -- -- -- - -- --  -- -  --
;FINANCUL~. &ulG-tIo-nS 
I  Uler-ating Income                  .7s. Ob9                      73S.542 1           6.767             62.319 167.494 1                      70.635             59.5371
Opcerating Expenses                  .1~.47-I t. )2l                                  60.2-71            46,359 153.537 164.358 157.457
Profit Before Tax                               t 14. 322,         1'2.521            16.496             15.9601            13,957 16,277                          2.080 1
Prnfnt After Tax                                        17,822                         6,667              9.005              6,225              2.415              1,021
le-tained Profit                                I I . W',          13,64-2             .569,905                              7,260              7.018              4,60)3
IGeneral ReIserve                     ,48,4(i)                      41 , t(t) 1        36.7(i)            31I.500) 1         29,00  1           23,028             23.0281
Paid-up Capital                      I          wriEr:fv, )                            0,(K0            151,500 1126.000 1)                   120, .(ti)        I110.000 1
Total Assets.                                 8137,6421          8,32.5801          980. 126           B38,638            900, 5861          924.911          1.0866495 
Loans and Alcvances                                     IIIaI
cautstanding(before Provision for                       *III
Ifor Bad and Doubtful Debts)          1         62, 727 1          620,455            710,246 1559,534                      E 823,700 1824,001 :937,766I
I.
1Total Deposits                       .         33,6,922 1         365,9961           491.4531           445,0351           322,6671           271.917            397,213 I
1FlN0flC1[t PM)*                                            
lEamning Per Share befor-e Taxwcents):               7.16 16.26                            138.25            10.53 111.08                           5.23 :              .89 I
:Earning Per Share after Tax (cents):                4.56        1      ,.911              4.33,              6.00               4.941              2.011              0.93
:Pre-Tax Returni on Aver-age                                                 .aS
1Sharetnilders' Funds (l:5s  :                                          5.0 :7.5                              9.0                B .9               4.4                1.5
:flfter-Tax Retur  n o  Av~erageI*                                             
Paid-up Capital (7I)                                4.6         1      3.91               4.9                7.1 1              5.11               2.11               0.91
'Af ter--Tax Retur  n i Average1                                              I111
ITotal Assets  W                                      LI:               0,91               1.01               1.01               0.71               0.2                0.1 I



&OWH DEVELC.[- M+, BM-AP                     Part III
"ESTIC/FCOEIGN CU.FEJCY RESJIFM  MoBILIZATION                           Table 8.7
AS AT 31 DEEEMEER ()'
1986          1987          1989            1989            1990            1991              1992
r   .ctIr r-es
-a.d tp Cazpital & pes<rve            141.,7'1,916   146.BCf )'   16-.782,671      190,010,965    2(i4,106,89e   256.766.247      h64.905,523
Wvecmnet Lnans                        81,414,51    81,883,13)    68. 38,2B2         732910,359    115,482,561    76,243,123        70,t0.790
un3D FIom.ting Rate Wtes             10C36E),-)   2.)637,9,P                          -              -
Ftreiw, Finaincial Sources           2V4.444, ',  1P99 4334594                      13S15.0(M)        -
Urgustic fiLeolvinq Loan5             112, -*Xt)   61.iM8,             - 
DbnEstic DerpositS                   41, 1t 256   474,470,445   618,(356,1^o      6       95-2   65B,763.2210   5e4,9-.94.597     463,990,R28
lAkx-ld P.il I-oans        -                            -~                           4.0C9.45')   26.2C0).C196    24.731,445)      22,399,419
1.*'6" 661 ,*86 1 ,(KZ3 2 ;9, 711 1 "1 , 62.953  99,5CEI.726  1,004.E552.775   994.675,417    E41 ,H46,5iO
Itcbbilizaticn of REswrces
Fi :r-d fAssets - tt 1  .-21 -,                       814.066       702.6SS         799.681        1.514,010      1. 1 16,46          791,3S41
Investments                           9Co),i 1 -I42    78.2374.3-1   162,416,9337   161,640,375    132,824,743    1S4.15S,884       10f-6.470,Z15
Loars an-d Advances Receivahle       9f)4,, -7,.99   81F.965.919   676,181,867    533,684.770     614,92E.359    573. 27 H79       522,482,,881
I1okri ncz C-pital                   5-7.2.2 C36   115.954.045   226.251,305    236,IS569         248,C016,5CF9    228.378,C605)   204,310,967
9bbsidiaries                            7 29  n42     7.271.330     7.272,159      7.276.331         7,279,154      7.7W9.fE          7,791,56     I
1,(060,661.686 1.C0B.239,711 1.)72.624.953    939,55B,726   1,0O4.52,775      944,675.417       B41,846,56)0   u



