Document uf
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
xx ^?ppo +t
Report No. P-4413-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IWLERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$2O.O MILLION TO
BANK KEMAJUAN PERUSAHAAN MALAYSIA BERHAD (BKPM)
AND
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45.0 MILLION TO
SABAH DEVELOPMENT BANK BERHAD (SDB)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA
FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
November 25, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit    =    Ringgit (M$)
Average 1985                                  March 1986
US$1.00    =        M$2.48               US$1.00    =         4$2.53
$1.00      =        US$0.40              M$1.00     =        US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malaysia
January 1 - December 31
Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad
January 1 - December 31
Sabah Development Bank Berhad
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BKPM         -   Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad
BNM          -   Bank Negara Malaysia
EPR          -   Effective Protection Rate
FTZ          -   Free Trade Zone
GNP          -   Gross National Product
LMW          -   Licensed Manufactured Warehouse
NEP          -   New Economic PoLicy
NIF          -   New Investment Fund
PFIs         -   Participating Financial Institutions
SDB          -   Sabah Development Bank Berhad
SSE          -   Small Scale Enterprises



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Sunuary
Borrowers:     Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad (BKPM) and
Sabah Development Bank Berhad (5DB).
Guarantor:     Malaysia
Loan Amount:   A total of US$65 million equivalent comprising two loans:
BKPM: US$20 million
SDB:   US$45 million
Terms:         15 years, including three years grace, for BKPM and 13 years,
including 4 years grace, for SDB, both at the standard variable
interest rate.
Relending
Terms:       BKPM would onlend Bank loan proceeds to subborrowers in Ringgit
for periods of up to 15 years, and SDB for periods of up to 13
years, at variable market rates. The Guarantor to charge a
one-time 1% fee, paid up front, for guaranteeing the repayment
of the Bank loan and availability of foreign exchange therefor.
Project
Description: The project would provide long-term capital for medium- and
large-scale subprojects essentially in the private sector, with
the Bank funds financing the direct and indirect foreign
exchange component. Eligible sectors would include: manufac-
turing, transportation, tourism and commercial agriculture; but
the bulk of financing is projected to be for manufacturing
sector subprojects. Financing for consumer real estate, ocean-
going shipping and cocoa growing would be excluded. The
estimated 50-60 subprojects would generate jobs and produce a
wide range of products for import substitution as well as for
exports. A major benefit from the proposed project would be
the opportunity for the Bank to work closely with two addi-
tional development banks on the refocussing of their lending
strategies and on upgrading their institutional efficiency.
Together with the institutions participating in the Small Scale
Enterprise Project approved in 1984, the Bank would now be
associated with four of the five major development banks in the
country and, thus, have the opportunity to further strengthen
institutional arrangements for providing long-term capital for
investment financing. The project is expected to result in
total estimated investment of about US$250 million. The
project risks include a longer than projected period of loan
commitment resulting from the present unfavorable investment
climate continuing longer than anticipated, and financial
difficulties for the participating institutions. The risks are
relatively minor and manageable.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Disbursements:              FY87      FY88    FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92
- T(U$ million)      ---------
Annual                 1.3     11.7    23.4      17.6       8.4      2.6
Cumulative             1.3     13.0    36.4      54.0      62.4     65.0
Rate of Return:               n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 6065-MA, dated October 24, 1986.
Map: IBRD No. 19374



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED LOANS IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION TO
BANK IEMAJUAN PERUSAHAAN MALAYSIA BERHAD (BKPM) AND IN THE
AMOUNT OF US$45.0 MILLION TO SABAH DEVELOPMENT BANK BEREAD (SDB)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF MALAYSIA FOR THE DEVELOPHENT FINANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on proposed loans
in the amount of US$20.0 million to Bank Kemajuan Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad
(BKPM) and in the amount of US$45.0 million to Sabah Development Bank Berhad
(SDB), with the guarantee of Halaysia, to help finance the Development Finance
Project. The loan to BKPM would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, and to SDB a term of 13 years, including 4 years of grace, both at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  Industrializing a Primary
Producer" (No. 5908-MA), is dated June 1986. Recent economic data are
contained in Annex 1.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,980 in 1984 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita CDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.s. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic
and financial management; and stable social and political institutions. Three
specific elements have been important: first, substantial attention and
priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high productivity gains
in the sector which have cushioned it against occasional steep price declines;
second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12Z p.a., in the last
two decades, following first an import-substituting pattern, but later
increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very open economy, with
exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of GDP, exports have
diversified from an initial large depecdence on rubber and tin to include palm
oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
11   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Western Johor Agricultural Development Project (Report No.
P-4360-MA, dated June 19, 1986), approved by the Board of Executive
Directors on July 15, 1986.



- 2 -
ethnic communities. The incidence of poverty covered all ethnic groups, but
was disproportionately high among Halays; their average per capita incomes
were only half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government
decLared a New Economic Policy (CEP), and accorded the highest priority to
eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment,
and ownership of assets. Since then, considerable progress had been made in
reducing the number of households living below the poverty line, particularly
in rural areas. In addition, there has been substantial progress towards
reducing interracial disparities in income and asset ownership.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has joined agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and
exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cutting
edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable and
dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through paLm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production
steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction, and was severely disrupted recently by the
suspension of international tin trading. Although timber production has
recently been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental
environmental consequences, and the Government has restricted logging in
Peninsular Malaysia. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating across a
declining trend for several years. While factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this
suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector
in years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as to
tackle the large extant problem of rural poverty. In the tree crops sector,
for example, production growth is being pursued through productivity and
efficiency gains rather than increased acreage. As for food crops, further
growth in rice production may well prove to be uneconomic and entail consider-
ably higher subsidies than the rice sector already receives. It is therefore
appropriate that the Government has moved gradually away from its previously
proclaimed goal of rice self-sufficiency and is emphasizing greater crop
diversification.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international com-
modity price cycle. Between 1917 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 13% in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8Z, representing a loss of
national income of about 5%. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain



-3-
domestic income levels. This combination of faLling commodity prices and an
expansionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and
balance of payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the current account deficit on
the balance of payments averaged 12% of GNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of GNP. Overall, GDP growth averaged 6% p.a., and
inflation initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad4 Domestic borrowings were largely
noninflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company
and the commercial banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew
from about 37% to nearly 48% between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of
the deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt more than doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16Z to 32% of
CNP); there was, in addition, an important shift in the sources of borrowing
away from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the low
levels of external borrowing in the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82
period did not immediately give rise to a high burden of debt service. How-
ever, it did increase progressively, and as a proportion of exports, debt
service on private, public and publicly guaranteed MLT debt was 15.6% at the
end of 1985.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 was recognized by the Government, and a policy of expenditure
restraint was implemented through 1983-85 and affirmed in the 1986 budget.
The overall public sector deficit declined substantially from 17% of GNP in
1982 to lOZ in 1984. Both the Government and public enterprises registered
equally sharp adjustments. In 1983 and 1984, federal government development
sxperiitures declined by 16% and 11%, respectively, and the federal government
1getary deficit fell from almost 18% of GNP to 6%.  The reduction in the
de-cit of public enterprises, on the other hand, came about from substantiaL
increases in internal savings which more than absorbed a continued expansion
in development expenditures. To some extent, the impact on the external
account of the shrinking public sector deficit was offset by priv2 e invest-
ment expenditures which rose by 17% in real terms during 1983-84T
Nonetheless, the balance of payments' current account deficit improved
considerably from 14% of GNP in 1982 to 5Z in 1984.
9.        Malaysia's growth performance in 1985 was its worst in over two
decades. Real GDP fell by 1.0% under the combined weight of continued adjust-
ments in public sector expenditures, lower international commodity prices,
stagnant exports of manufactures and higher interest payments on external
debt. On the other hand, the public sector succeeded in cutting its overall
2/   This was largely the consequence of higher outlays by quasi-public
agencies classified as part of the private sector in the nationaL
accounts. According to the Government's classification, nonfinancial
public enterprises like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the
heavy industry corporation) are not included as part of the public sector
in the national accounts.



- 4 -
deficit further to 6.8% of GNP, and the external current account deficit
followed suit by shrinking to 2.5% of CNP. The slack pace of domestic econo-
mic activity and the consequent closures or cutbacks in the manufacturing,
mining and construction sectors added substantially to unemployment. In
response, the Government introduced modest reflationary measures including a
major new low-cost housing scheme to be implemented over the next three years.
10.       Nineteen eighty six marked the beginning of Malaysia's fifth five-
year plan with its objective of generating a pattern and pace of economic
growth that would create sufficient employment opportunities for its expanding
labor force and yet be consistent with a prudent level of external debt.
However, the precipitous fall in international prices of petroleum and palm
oil, and possibilities of only a modest recovery over the medium term, has
unequivocally altered Malaysia's resource position and given it considerably
less room in which to maneuver. Though the internal and external balance
situations are likely to deteriorate this year, Malaysia could con'inue to
reduce its external and internal imbalance over the medium term, provided the
Governmeat exercises restraint in public expenditures and promotes exports,
particularly of manufactures. With relatively heavy external borrowing
undertaken in recent years, and with continued external deficits till the turn
of the decade, the debt-service ratio is expected to rise initially and then
stabilize at just below 20%. The possible impact of public investment
cutbacks on growth prospects underscores the critical importance of ensuring
greater efficiency in the public investment program. In addition, new growth
sources will need to replace those that propelled the economy forward in the
1970s. International price prospects for rubber, palm oil, petroleum and tin
suggest that commodities production will be of less importance to Malaysian
economic growth than in the past. Even in the manufacturing sector, Malaysia
faces stiff competition from its populous neighbors in international markets
for labor-intensive products such as textiles and electronics assembly.
11.       Tlhe Fifth Five Year Plan includes a strong emphasis on resource-
based industrialization, the bulk of which would need to be financed by the
private sector. In preparing the ground for encouraging greater private
sector investment, the Government liberalized partially the investment
licensing laws and continued with its policy initiative of privatizing some
sectors of the economy. A cogent, comprehensive and well-coordinated
industrial and trade strategy will be central to Malaysia's economic future
and its ability both to compete internationally and transcend sudden shocks
inflicted by changes in the world economic environment.
PAUT II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
12.       The Bank has, to date, approved 65 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$2,002.17 million, for projects in agriculture, industry, education,
population, power, water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports,
railways, roads, and urban transport. As of September 30, 1986, the effective
loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to US$1,490.55 million; a total of
43 loans to Malaysia had been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of
Bank loans and IFC investments.



- 5 -
13.       Up to a few years ago, during years of a relatively comfortable
foreign exchange and fiscal situation and prospects, the Bank's lending
strategy towards Malaysia aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate
poverty in the country, and was thus focussed upon rural development and
education. The agricultural projects enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of the beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange
earnings for the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
Although, as mentioned above, the economic situation and prospects have, since
thenp changed considerably, Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income
groups has not diminished, and the Bank therefore intends to continue to
allocate a substantial share of its assistance to the agriculture and
education sectors.
14.       However, responding to a government requestp the Bank has increased
and diversified its program of cooperation to cover both the commodity produc-
ing sectors as well as supporting social and physical infrastructure. The
assistance is aimed at maintaining a high overall rate of growth for the
economy and at raising productivity, efficiency, and cost effectiveness.
Consequently, the Bank is now also assisting in sectors where serious struc-
tural problems or institutional deficiencies exist. The Bank has increased
its coverage to lend to such sectors as industry, transport, power and water
supply, and is thus also making a more substantial contribution to alleviating
Malaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the medium term.
15.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has in recent years been seriously affected
by the country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in
project disbursements, which dropped from US$137 million in PY83 to US$100 mil-
lion in FY85 and US$57 million in FY86. Disbursement performance, measured in
terms of the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative undisbursed amounts,
was 0.22 in FY83, 0.17 in FY85, and 0.10 in FY86 (compared to regional
averages of 0.20, and 0.22, and 0.21 respectively, in the same years).
16.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia have been: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur
(the last one in October 1986). These reviews and the corrective action taken
by the agencies subsequently are having a positive impact on project implemen-
tation. Further reviews will be undertaken with the Malaysian authorities.
It is also proposed to continue to reinforce the implementation reviews with
occasional seminars on disbursements and procurement (the last disbursement
and procurement seminars took place in October 1986) for the benefit of the
implementing agencies.
17.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.19 mil-
lion. The total investments held by IFC, as of September 30, 1986, amounted
to US$12.50 million (Annex II).



-6 -
18.       In 1985, Malaysia's debt service ratio on private, public and
publicly guaranteed debt war about 15.6%. In the same year, debt service on
Bank obligations constituted about 8% of total debt service. With the rapid
increase in market borrowings in the last 3 years, the proportion of Bank
disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15% in 1979-80 to
less than 3.51 at end-1985. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions,
suggest that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of
Malaysia is likely to remain well below 10% through the rest of the decade.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
19.       The industrial sector, which comprises manufacturing, mining and
quarrying, construction, and electricity and gas, accounts for about 31% of
Malaysia's CDP. Although its share has declined from about 37% during 1970-
75, it is still the single largest contributor to CDP. Within the industrial
sector, the share of manufacturing is about two thirds of the total; it was
19% of GDP in 1985. Since the proposed project will benefit principally the
manufacturing sector, the discussion in the following focusses on this
sector. The potential for comnercial agriculture/agro industries in the Scate
of Sabah is also discussed briefly, because part of the proposed loan is
expected to finance some subprojects in this subsector. A more detailed
discussion of the industrial sector is contained in the latest economic report
of the Bank titled "Malaysia: Industrializing a Primary Producer" (Report
No. 5908-MA, dated June 1986).
The Manufacturing Sector
20.       Trends in Manufacturing.  The performance of the Malaysian manufac-
turing sector has mirrored that of the overall economy: very good until the
late 1970s, a marked slowdown during the early 1980s, some revival in 1984,
but slowing down again in 1985.  Its share in CDP has increased from 14% in
1971 to about 19% in 1985. However, the growth of manufacturing output has
decelerated considerably, from an average annual rate of about 13% during
1973-78 to about 5% per year during 1982-85. Despite some revival in 1984,
when it increased at 13%, the growth of manufacturing output fell 3% in 1985,
and is projected to increase marginally in 1986.
21.       Structure of Manufacturing.  Textiles and electrical goods are the
fabtest growing subsectors within manufacturing. During the 1970s, annual
growth in textiles was about 16Z p.a.; however, in the early 1980s, its growth
slowed down to about 8Z. The electrical goods subsector expanded in the 1970s
at an average annual rate of 13X; but unlike textiles or even overall trends
in manufacturing GDP, it picked up momentum in the early 1980s when the
average annual growth rate increased to about 19Z, largely owing to sustained
rapid export growth. Besides electricaL goods and textiles, the metal
products, paper and printing, and transport equipment subsectors have also
registered significant expansion. Manufacturing employment is concentrated in
electrical and electronics, textiles and garments, food and wood based indus-
tries; together these account for nearly half of manufacturing employment.
22.       Manufactured Exports.  The performance of manufactured exports has
been impressive indeed; their share in total exports increased from 15% in



-7-
1973 to 311 in 1984. But growth rates of manufactured exports (with the
exception of eLectronic.) have followed the pattern of growth rates of output,
viz, a slowdown in the early 198O compared to the performance in most of the
1970s. During 1975-79, manufactured exports increased at an average annual
rate of 26.51, but slowed down to about 142 during 1980-B4. Manufactured
exports stilt account for about 302 of total merchandise exports. The major
contributors to the rapid export growth were: (a) electrical machinery, elec-
tron;es and appliances, whose exports increased from H$359 million in 1974 to
M$6,762 million in 1984; (b) textiles, clothing and footwear whose exports
increased from M$160 million in 1974 to H$1,143 million in 1984; and
(c) petroleum and chemicals, whose exports increased from M$235 million in
1974 to M$1,325 million in 1984.
23.       The robust export performance in manufactured items is largely due
to the Free Trade Zones (FTZs) and Licensed Manufactured Warehouses (LMWs),
which together account for about two thirds of total manufactured exports of
Malaysia. The FTZs are concentrated in electrical/electronics as FTZ exports
of these items amounted to about 90% of exports of this subsector. An
important feature of FTZ firms, however, is their heavy dependence on imported
materials; value-added as a proportion of total sales is rather low. The FTZs
and LMWs are also dominated by multinational companies. The result has been
that the linkages of the FTZ firms with the rest of the economy are very weak
and the spread effects have been much smaller than anticipated at the time
these were established.
24.       Industrial Strategy.  If the sociopolitical imperative of main-
taining a relatively high long-term growth of the overall economy is to be
achieved, the inevitable conclusion is that manufacturing has to play a key
role. Manufacturing also offers the best potential for reducing the balance
of payments strain and absorbing a growing labor force. However, the export-
based development, led essentially by electronics/electricals and textiles,
located in FTZs, and owned by multinationals, no longer offers a viable stra-
tegy. Since the early 1980s, the overall world economic scene is character-
ized by slow growth and a disinflationary environment, giving rise to press-
ures in iLadustrialized countries to limit imports. With a very limited growth
of the market, if not an actual contraction, the competition between export-
oriented developing countries has become very intense, because the markets as
well as the products are essentially the same.
25.       Starting in the early 1980s when the FTZ's manufactured exports
started to slow down, the Government realized that the deepening and diversi-
fication of manufacturing was important to nurture new export industries for
the future and to ensure that the economy would have a leading sector capable
of generating the needed level of employment. For a variety of reasons rela-
ted to the New Economic Policy (NEP), the lumpy nature of investments in the
industries selected and the relatively long gestation requirements, it was the
public sector that took the lead in developing metal, cement, pulp and paper,
transport, and petroleum or gas based industries. Some of the projects have
been compLeted and others are approaching completion; but it will be some
years before their viability can be fully established. Looking ahead, there
is little doubt that Malaysia needs to graduate from light labor-intensive
manufactures and move towards the production of intermediate and producer



- 8 -
goods. ALso, as industrialization continues, it is liKely that the role of
the private sector will become steadily greater.
26.       The Government is cutting back on infrastructure investment and has
started to stimulate private sector involvement in manufacturing. It has
embarked on a program of "privatization," which is still unfolding. The
Government is identifying suitable activities/entities which can be priva-
tized. At the same time, it has declared that it would also consider propo-
sals for sale/transfer to the pri'rate mactor of any activity/entity identified
by the private secLor itself. The extent of privatization may range from com-
plete translfer of ownership at one extreme to transfer of management only at
the other extreme. Perhaps the most important step the Government has taken
to further its industrial strategy is to come to grips with the incentives
policy framework.
27.       Policy Framework.  The policy framework governing industrial incen-
tives has r.n-mained fairly steady through the years; the average effective rate
of protecLion (EPR) was 24Z in 1979 and 23% in 1982. However, the incentive
framework governed by nontrade policy instruments also exerted significant
protectionist influence. In 1979, these fiscal incentives added nearly 9%
protection to subsecLors for domestic production, and though estimates are not
available for later years, the impression is that it strengthened further to
usher in the second round of import substitution activities. The combined
effect of both trade and fiscal incentive policy instruments was to exert a
strong antiexport bias to precisely those subsectors which were growing fast
in the early years and had potential for further growth during the 1980s.
28.       In view of the manufacturing slowdown since the late 1970s, the
Government is quite concerned, and has recently undertaken a major review of
the policy framework based on the results of the Malaybian Industrial Policy
Studies (MIPS), a UNDP-funded and Bank-executed project. A thorough review
has been completed by the Government, a process in which the Bank actively
participated. The major conclusions that have emerged are: (a) there is no
basis for additional and across-the-board incentives; (b) the general environ-
ment has to be conducive for industrial growth with respect to strategy,
incentive regime and the role of public/private sectors; Cc) there is a need
for specific selective changes in the incentive regime, but not sweeping
changes or overhauling of the entire regime; and (d) export promotion efforts
would have priority. The Bank agrees with these conclusions.
29.       Having reached these conclusions, the Government is now considering
the means of giving effect to them. The Invescment Coordination Act was
revised in December 1985 and subsequently in October 1986 to raise the
government licensing threshold for investments from M$250,000 to M$2.5 mil-
lion. The result of this will be to leave the investment decisions about a
greater proportion of total projects to private entrepreneurs and bring more
automaticity to the application of incentives. The Government is also taking
steps to reduce bias against exporting through an extension of duty free
status to both direct and indirect exporters, selective reduction in excessive
protection for domestic market production, and improved export financing. In
addition, consideration is being given to revising nontrade policy incentives
for import competing industries, while continuing such incentives for the



-9-
exporting industries. High priority will continue to be given to regional
dispersal of manufacturing activity and for technology transfer. As mentioned
earlier, an attempt is also being made to reduce the role of the public sector
through privatization. All these policy initiatives are steps in the right
direction.
30.       The Industrial Master Plan (IMP) was made public in February 1986,
and the Fifth Five Year Plan incorporating the strategy of IMP was announced
in April 1986. The Bank staff has been actively involved in the discussions
of policy options, first in the context of the management and execution of the
MIPS project and subsequently in the context of the identification, prepar-
ation and appraisal of the proposed project and normal country economic
work. The Bank will continue to be actively involved in these efforts and
their monitoring.
Commercial Agriculture/Agro Industries Sector
31.       Since Sabr' is predominantly an agricultural state, there is great
potential for the development of commercial agriculture/agro-industries.  The
comprehensive Sabah Regional Planning Study focuses on commercial scale
plantations of four principal tree crops--coconut, rubber, cocoa and oil
palm--and on potential processing industries including copra-kilns, coconut
oil mills, coir, rubber processing and various products based on rubber, cocoa
bean drying, cocoa butter/paste, chocolate and confectionery, and palm oil
processing and refining. In addition to these potentially important
industries, timber-based industry is already quite well developed in Sabah.
In the future, the choice of specific crops and/or industries, and the pace of
development, would depend on international marketing considerations, princi-
pally price developments. As the principal development finance institution in
Sabah, Sabah Development Bank would participate in the development and
financing of these industries as opportunities arise. Given the present world
production of cocoa, however, Bank funds would not be allocated to its produc-
tion and processing.
Financial Sector
32.       Financial System.  Since Malaysia's independence in 1957, the
country's financial system has grown from one comprised primarily of commer-
cial banks to one with a wide range of financial institutions and services.
Today, the financial system is one of the most developed among countries at a
similar stage of economic development as Malaysia, and is deepening rapidly.
As an indication of financial deepening, the ratio of broad money (M ) to CDP
was 59% in 1983, significantly higher than Thailand's 45%, Korea's 36i and
Indonesia's 20% in the same year.
33.       The banking system, which is the major component of the financial
sector, consists of Bank Negara Malaysia (BN), serving as the central bank,
and 38 commercial banks, 43 finance companies and 12 merchant banks.  The
commercial banks, with a branch network of more than 7'0 offices, represent by
far the largest component, accounting for about 45% of total assets of the
entire financial system at the end of 1984. The 43 finance companies, 12 of
which are subsidiaries of commercial banks, are the second largest deposit-



- 10 -
taking institutions with more than 300 branches, and account for about 11% of
total assets of the financial system. Among the nonbank financial interme-
diaries, the Employees Provident Fund is the largest, accounting for about 14%
of the total assets of the financial system. The development finance institu-
tions account for less than 3% of the total assets of the financial system.
Although exact data are not available, their share is believed to be much
higher in terms of providing long-term capital for the manufacturing sector.
34.       The financial system is served by a sophisticated money market where
the principal instruments are treasury bills, overnight and seven-day call
money, short-term deposits, negotiable certificates of deposit, bankers'
acceptances and repurchase agreements. In the equities market, the Kuala
Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE) with a market capitalization of US$29.2 billion
as of end 1984, is bigger than the stock exchanges in South Korea, Taiwan, the
Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia combined. About 280 companies are
presently listed on the KLSE, 60% of which are also listed on the Singapore
stock exchange. A market for corporate debt instruments is yet to develop in
Malaysia.
35.       Interest Rates.  Interest rates in Malaysia are, generally speaking,
free and market determined. Rates for individual borrowers are determined by
adding a margin to a base lending rate (BLR) which is determined by each bank
individually in line with its own cost of funds. In June 1986, the BLR of the
two largest banks was 9.75%, and the 12-months deposit rate was 7%. In recent
years, the inflation rate was 3.7% in 1983, 3.9% in 1984, and 0.3% in 1985 (as
measured by CPI), meaning that real interest rates for lending as well as for
deposits have remained substantially positive.
36.       Financial Sector Issues.  Financial sector issues in developing
countries normally relate to the foreign exchange value of the domestic
currency and interest rates. In Malaysia, there are no major distortions with
regard to these two principal areas. Historically, the ringgit has been a
stable currency; and interest rates are essentially market determined,
substantially positive in real terms, and responsive to changes in interest
rates internationally. Since the capital account of the balance of payments
is relatively open, the freely determined interest rates also incorporate the
market's judgment as to the relative value of the domestic currency and
expectations with regard to exchange rate fluctuations in the future. A
detailed study by the IMF in early 1985 recommended measures to improve the
flexibility of domestic interest rates and their response to changes in
monetary policy.
37.       Although interest rates are essentially market determined, there are
lower rates for certain "priority" sectors, and the financial system is
"directed" to earmark part of total credit to given sectors. No precise data
are available to show the extent of lending by the financial system at the
incentive rates and that of "directed lending." Rough data indicate, however,
that most of the priority sector loans made through the banking sector carry
no less than 9% interest, i.e., interest rates that are substantially positive
in real terms. BNM has been trying to reduce the extent of lending at
subsidized rates; the Treasury also supports such efforts in order to reduce
the pressure on the national budget.



- 11 -
38.       There are, nevertheless, a number of problem areas in the financial
sector. One area is the relative underdevelopment of a securities market
dealing in privately issued instruments. A related problem is the dependence
of the country's development finance institutions on direct and indirect
government funding. Late in 1985, the Government asked the Bank to study
possible modifications in the funding sources of development finance
institutions and more generally their role in the financial system. After the
general scope of this study was agreed with the Government, the field work was
undertaken in June-July 1986. The report of the study will, inter alia,
examine in detail the aLternative sources of funds for these institutions and
recommend how they may define their role in a rapidly growing and dynamic
financial system. The report will also examine the reasons for the relative
underdevelopment of the private debt securities market in that context. Yet
another problem has been the insufficient availability of export finance; the
Government also requested the Bank to undertake a study of this subject. The
field work for this study was undertaken in March-April 1986 and the draft
report is now being studied by the Government.
39.       A serious problem with the financial sector, and one that is to be
addressed by the proposed project, concerns the availability of long- and
medium-term finance for the manufacturing sector. Over the past few years, as
can be seen in the table below, there has also been a diversion of a dispro-
portionately high share of total credit to the financing of real estate
(including construction and housing).
PERCENT SHARE IN TOTAL CREDIT
1978     1980      1983     1984      1985
Real estate, incl.
constructLion, housing            21.4      27.5     32.7      35.3     41.5
Manufacturing                       17.8      19.8     17.8      16.1      15.5
This has worked to the detriment of manufacturing and can be seen by comparing
the proportion of total credit going to each one of these sectors with their
contribution to GDP. Manufacturing is contributing about 20% to GDP; the
exact data on the real estate sector's contribution to GDP is not available,
but it is no more than 10%. BNM is already putting pressure on the banking
sector to reduce its exposure in the real estate sector. In addition, the
Government has recently set up a ?$1 billion New Investment Fund (NIF) to
increase the availability of credit to manufacturing, agriculture and
tourism. This is a refinancing scheme under which commercial banks can obtain
funds from BNM up to 751 of the amount of the loans for financing new fixed
investments; they, however, assume the risk for the full amount of the
loans. The cost of NIF funds to commercial banks is 1.5% below the BLR and
the onlending rate is fixed at 1.25% above BLR. Loans under NIF are for up to



- 12 -
five years. The proposed project will complement these measures by increasing
the availability of longer-term credit, principally for investment in
manufacturing, chrough two development banks. The term of Bank-financed
subprojects will depend on their nature, but it is expected that, on average,
it will be substantially longer than five years.
Bank Strategy for Industrial Sector Lending
40.       Until recently, the principal objective of Bank lending in Malaysia
was poverty alleviation. The operational programs accordingly emphasized
agricultural and rural development projects. Given the crucial importance of
the industrial/manufacturing sector at this stage of Malaysia's development,
the Government has requested that the Bank, in addition, provide support to
efficient industrial development through arrangements for industrial invest-
ment in a framework of appropriate industrial and financial sector policies.
The underpinning for the Bank's policy dialogue has so far been provided by a
large amount of sector work undertaken by the Bank during the past three to
four years, culminating in the Malaysian Industrial Policy Studies (MIPS)
project completed in early 1985. Most recently, in 1986, the Bank has under-
taken a study of export finance concentrating on preshipment finance, and a
study of the development finance institutions in the country with emphasis on
possible institutional restructuring, competitiveness and resource mobiliz-
ation (see para. 38).
41.       The Bank's industrial sector lending program is still evolving.
Apart from the Small Scale Enterprise (SSE) Project (Loan 2471-MA) which
became effective in April 1985, the proDosed project will be the first indus-
trial sector operation in more than two decades. Its objectives have been
kept modest for that reason.
PART 1V - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was prepared by the Industry Division of the Economic
Planning Unit, the participating financial institutions and the Bank. It was
appraised in October 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from October
14-16, 1986; the Malaysian delegation was led by Dr. Hadenan Jalil, Deputy
Secretary, Finance Division, Treasury. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6065-MA),
dated October 24, 1986, is being circulated separately. Supplementary project
data are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
43.       The proposed project has sectoral as well as institutional
objectives. In the sectoral context, the project continues the constructive
policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank in the financial and
industrial sectors. The broad outline of improvements in the policy framework
has already emerged, as discussed earlier. As regards institutional strategy,
the overall approach is to: (a) improve institutional efficiency and broaden
the activities of the two participating financial institutions (PFIs);
(b) broaden the PFI's resource base and reduce their dependence on government
funding; and (c) improve resource allocation efficiency by strengthening long-



- 13 -
term project based lending. Together with the institutions under the SSE
Project, the Bank would be associated with four of the five major development
banks in the country and, thus, have the opportunity to further strengthen
institutional arrangements for providing long-term capital for investment
financing. The project would also, by providing long-term foreign exchange
funds in substitution of short-term private sector borrowings, help improve
the country's foreign debt profile, and help the central bank in itg debt
management.
44.       The proposed project would finance a broad range of medium- and
medium- to large-scale industries, essentially in the private sector. The
subprojects will be selected and appraised by the PFIs. Broad criteria for
project selection have been agreed with the PFIs. Projects in manufacturingp
transportation, tourism and commercial agriculture would be eligible.
Financing for consumer real estate, oceangoing shipping, and cocoa growing
would be excluded. Economically justified import substituting and exporL
promoting projects will be emphasized. It is expected that the proposed loan
would finance about 50-60 subprojects, mostly in the manufacturing sector,
resulting in total investments of about US$250 million.
45.       In consultation with the Government, two development banks have been
selected to participate in the proposed project. These are: Bank Kemajuan
Perusahaan Malaysia Berhad (BKPM) which was set up in 1979 as a wholly govern-
ment-owned development bank and has so far financed only shipping and shipyard
related projects; and Sabah Development Bank Berhad (SDB) which is the
principal development finance institution in the State of Sabah. When project
preparation was started, five institutions were envisaged, including a commer-
cial bank and a merchant bank. However, three institutions dropped out for
various reasons, including one development bank which opted out after the
appraisal had been completed.
Bank Kemajuan Perusahas- Malaysia Berhad (BKPM)
46.       Nature and Role.  BKPM was established in August 1979 as a
government-owned development finance institution to provide finance for large-
scale capital intensive projects with long gestation periods. However, soon
after the institution started operations in 1980, the Government's fiscal
position tightened and it could not provide the required budgetary resources
to BKPM. BKPM, therefore, concentrated on financing coastal shipping, small
shipbuilding and related industries which had high priority from a balance of
payments point of view. Because of the priority given to this sector, most
loans have been at less than market rates of interest.
47.       After more than five years in operation, BKPM is redefining its
role. This reassessment has taken place during the period of the preparation
of the proposed project, which has been a catalyst for the process. BKPM has
concluded that it cannot depend exclusively on the Government for its resource
needs without placing unacceptable constraints on its growth, and it cannot
continue to Limit its sectoral field to shipping and related activities. The
proposed Bank loan would be a first step in diversifying its resource base
away from the Government. It cannot yet forego government funding completely,
but it is planning to reduce the proportion of total resources that it obtains



- 14 -
from the Government to less than 75% during 1986-90; it may be reduced even
further depending on how successful its efforts are to raise funds from the
market. BKPM has also decided to give increasing importance to auxiliary
capital goods industries to deepen the industrial structure and provide link-
ages with and support to heavy industries which have already been sponsored.
As a result of this decision, only 43% of new commitments will go to shipping
industries in the next five years. It is also planning to play a significant
role in providing export finance but this role wiLl develop only gradually.
These ideas are incorporated in a Statement of Future Operational Strategies
already approved by BKPM's Board of Directors; the proposed Bank loan will
support these strategic changes in BKPM's operations.
48.       Institutional Aspects.  BKPM's Board of Directors comprises four
members, all appointed by the Government and all civil servants. As the
activities of the institution are broadened, BKPM intends to expand its Board
by appointment of private sector representatives; this will be a step in the
right direction. It has a staff of 35 (of whom 21 are professionals), led by
a General Manager. Given its size, BKPM does not have formal training
programs of its own, but ensures that staff is well trained in outside
institutions.
49.       BKPM has developed good skills in appraising shipping and related
industries projects. As it starts financing of engineering industries, it is
in the process of augmenting its staff resources; a senior engineer with
diversified experience was hired recently. BKPM's plans to recruit other
staff were discussed during negotiations and appropriate understandings
reached. BKPM's appraisal standards are satisfactory given its narrow
sectoral focus so far. However, as it expands its activities and particularly
as it starts financing import-substituting capital goods industries, it will
need to strengthen particularly the appraisal of economic aspects. This has
been accepted by BKPM and it will be undertaking a full economic analysis
including the calculation of the economic rates of return for all above free-
limit subprojects as a first step towards undertaking such analysis for all
large projects; this was confirmed during negotiations. An understanding was
also reached that the enviromental aspects in all above free-limit subprojects
will be explicitly discussed in the appraisal reports.
50.       Operations.  BKPM conducts its operations according to a Statement
of Operational and Financial Policies, which is appropriate. Major changes in
the Statement will require prior approval of the Bank. BKPM offers its
financial assistance in the form of medium-and long-term equipment loans,
short-term working capital loans, bills discounting, guarantees and leasing.
Since its inception, BKPM has committed 28 loans for a total of M$176 mil-
lion. Short-term working capital loans account for 20% of total outstanding
portfolio. Loans are for periods of up to 12 years with grace periods of 2-5
years. In terms of size, loans have ranged from M$600,000 to M$25 million,
with the average size being M$5.7 million. There have been only two guarantee
and one lease operations so far.
51.       Financial Condition and Performance.  BKPM's total assets grew from
M$144 million to M$207 million during 1981 to 1985. Although the loan
portfolio has increased substantially, short-term investments (M$100 million)



- 15 -
still exceed the loan portfolio. The short-term investments represent the
temporary deployment of liquid resources before they are disbursed as long-
term loans.  The long-term debt to equity ratio in 2.2:1.  BKPM's liquidity
position is strong. The portfolio is yet to mature; there are no arrears at
present. BKPM is profitable. Net income after taxes as a percentage of total
average assets has been about 2.5%; the return on equity for the latest year,
1985, was 7.6X. Because of relativeLy small portfolios, income from portfolio
is only 32% of gross income; interest income on short-term investment is the
major component so far. BKPM is not expected to pay a dividend in the
foreseeable future.
52.       Future Operations and Resource Requirements.  BKPM has projected new
loan commitments of about I$940 million during the 1986-90 period. About 60%
of these will be to nonshipping industries.  BKPM expects to finance about
M$174 million of loan commitments from foreign borrowings; the balance will be
from domestic sources, a major part of which is expected to come from the
Government. The proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 miLlion will finance about 11%
of BKPM's long-term loan commitments during 1986-88, the period of commitment
of the proposed loan. The projected financial position and performance will
remain satisfactory with a debt to equity ratio not exceeding 4:1 by the end
of 1990, and comfortable liquidity and debt service coverage ratios. BKPM's
resource planning at present is on a disbursement basis. In the future, BKPM
will be seeking a higher proportion of its total resource requirements from
nongovernment sources. It is desirable, therefore, that it do its resource
planning on a commitment basis. Understanding to this effect was reached
during negotiations.
Sabah Development Bank Berhad (SDB)
53.       Nature and Role.  SDB was established in 1977 as the principal
development finance institution for the State of Sabah. Its role quickly
evolved as not only an independent development bank for financing private
sector projects but also as a financial advisor to the state government in the
financing of public sector projects and a conduit for government funds for
projects selected by the state government. To safeguard its financial
integrity, it arranged from the beginning that the government-nominated
projects would be financed only from the funds provided by the state govern-
ment, on a project-by-project basis and with repayments tied to collections
from the projects. More recentLy, it has been decided that the SDB will no
longer finance any nominated projects. This decision is included in the
Strategy Statement recently adopted by SDB's Board. During negotiations, SDB
informed the Bank that this decision had also been confirmed by the State
Cabinet.  SDB's advisory role in financing of public sectir projects will,
however, continue. Because there will be no nominated projects in the future,
the growth of its assets will be slower, but SDB will be a leaner and more
independant financial institution. In recent years, SDB has raised an
increasing proportion of its resources from the private capital markets (both
domestic as well as foreign) and is also emphasizing syndications and loan
packaging in its operations. The change in emphasis away from financing of
government projects and dependence on government funding has been incorporated
in the Strategy Statement which was prepared by SDB in November 1985, and
charts its course for the foreseeable future.



- 16 -
54.       Institutional Aspects.  SDB's Board of Directors comprises four
members; a fifth Director resigned recently after his appointment as
Malaysia's High Commissioner to Canada. The Managing Director is assisted by
a General Manager and a staff of about 80 professionals. The staff is well
qualified, experienced and motivated. Training is well emphasized and quite
elaborate.
55.       SDB's operations are conducted in accordance with a Policy Statement
which contains detailed guidelines on project selection, financial policies
and limits on investments and lending. It is appropriate. Major changes in
the Policy Statement would require approval of the Bank. The project
appraisal criteria and procedures are satisfactory. However, appraisal of
economic aspects can be improved and an understanding was reached during nego-
tiations that SDB will undertake full economic appraisaLs including an
economic rate of return analysis for all above free-limit subprojects as a
first step towards undertaking similar analysis for all large projects. An
understanding was also reached that the environmental aspects will be
explicity brought out in its appraisal reports for all above free-limit
subprojects. Project supervision is .ffective.
56.       Operations.  Loan operations have shown a declining trend since
1981, because of a slowdown in the overall economy as well as because of the
inclusion in 1981 approvals of two unusually large projects. However, the
trend has been reversed in 1986, and approvals are running ahead of the 1985
pace. The proportion of government-nominated projects in SDB's total
portfolio has already declined from a high of about two thirds in 1981 to one
third now; this will decline to less than 10% by 1990 as no new nominated
projects are to be financed by SDB. SDB's foreign currency operations
commenced in 1982; they are all in the nonnominated category and account for
29% of the total portfolio. SectoraLly, agriculture accounts for the largest
share with 29% of the outstanding portfolio, followed by construction (23%)
and manufacturing (17%). About half of the portfolio has maturities of less
than two years; only 17% of the portfolio has maturities of more than five
years. The average size of nonnominated projects is M$5.0 million; however,
85% of the loans are for less than the average amount.
57.       Financial Position and Performance.  The long-term loan portfolio
accounts for about 80% of SDB's total assets.  SDB's financial position is
sound with a long-term debt to equity ratio of 4.4:1 as of December 31,
1985.  Its liquidity position and debt service coverage are also satis-
factory. The quality of SDB's portfolio is satisfactory. SDB has been
profitable from the beginning; the return on equity during the 1981-85 period
averaged a satisfactory 9.1%.
58.       Future Operations and Resource Requirements.  SDB has projected its
operations to grow at the very modest rate of less than 10% per annum. To
meet the projected level of loan commitments, SDB will need new long-term
resources of about M$357 million durinig the 1987-89 period, the commitment
period of the proposed project. The proposed Bank loan of US$45 million would
meet about 30% of these requirements. The projected financial position and
performance will remain satisfactory with a debt to equity ratio not exceeding
3.2:1 in any year of the 1986-90 projection period. Profitability is also
projected to remain satisfactory.



- 17 -
Features of the Proposed Loans
59.       Lending Terms.  The proposed Bank loans in the total amount of US$65
million will be made to BKPM (US$20 million) and SDB (US$45 million); they
will be guaranteed by the Government. The BKPM loan will be made for 15 years
including 3 years' grace, and SDB loan for 13 years, including 4 years' grace,
both at the standard variable rate. The long amortization would allow the
PFIs to use second generation funds and provide them with a new source of
funds.
60.       The subloans will be denominated in Ringgit, and BKPM and SDB will
charge market interest rates which will be variable. The present market rates
are generally in 11% to 13% range. There will be no subsidy either to the
PFIs or to the final beneficiaries. The PFIs will pay the current Bank
interest rate, including the commitment fee plus a one-time 1% fee, paid up
front to the Government for guaranteeing the repayment of the proposed loans
and the availability of foreign exchange therefor. The onlending rates will
be higher than the Bank rate of interest, as they will be determined on the
basis of the cost of funds plus a margin which will be determined in relation
to market rates and the degree of risk involved for individual borrowers. It
is expected that the PFIs will, over the life of the Bank loans, get an annual
spread in the range of 3% to 4%. As for the final beneficiaries, they are
expected to pay a real interest rate of about 9% per annum on Bank funds, the
real rate would decline in line with a decline in international rates, given
the openness of the capital account of the balance of payments in Malaysia.
To guard against the possibility of the PFIs getting an unjustifiably high
spread in case market interest rates increase in the future, it was agreed
during negotiations that the Government, the PFIs and the Bank will hold
annual consultations which will take into account the cost of Bank funds, the
market interest rates and inflation at the time of the review.
61.       Free Limit, Maximum Subloan Size and Debt to Equity Ratio Limit.
The free limit will be US$700,000 equivalent. With this free limit, it is
estimated that for SDB, the number of projects requiring prior approval of the
Bank would be 25%, accounting for about 65% of the loan to SDB. The propor-
tion of the number of projects as well as the amount requiring prior approval
of the Bank will be higher in the case of BKPM, because it has recently raised
its minimur loan size to M$1 million. However, it is not possible to give an
exact estimate because BKPM's portfolio is still very small and future size
distribution of its projects cannot be projecte" from the past. It was also
agreed that the aggregate free limit would be 50% of the amount of the
proposed Bank loans. To guard against the possibility that the Bank loans
would be committed to just a few large subprojects, it has been agreed that
the maximum size of the subloans should be limited to 10% of the amount of the
Bank loans to the two PFIs. The long-term debt:equity ratio will be limited
to a maximum of 5:1. At this level, the operations of BKPM and SDB will not
be constrained in the foreseeable future if equity is increased as
projected.  The limit is just_fied, given the strong capital structure and the
quality of portfolio.



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Procurement.  International competitive bidding (ICB) is not
appropriate for medium-size private sector subprojects. Given the limit on
the maximum size of subloans, individual contracts will not be large enough
for ICB. The PFIs will be required to ask subborrowers to obtain at least
three quotations from equipment suppliers and civil works firms before
contracts are finalized, a procedure aLready familiar to the PFIs as well as
their subborrowers.
63.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed loans will be used to
finance the foreign exchange costs of the subprojects. In addition to
financing 100% of the cost of direct imports, 60% of the cost of locally
procured imported machinery (or machinery fabricated locally using imported
material/components) and 45% of the cost of civil works will also be eli-
gible. In the case of SDB, 35% of the cost of commercial agriculture projects
will also be eligible for financing under the proposed loan. All the fore-
going percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange cost component.
The proposed loans are expected to be committed in about two and one-half
years after their effectiveness, and disbursed in five.
64.       Reimbursement of expenditures incurred under free-limit subloans
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Documenta-
tion supporting the SOEs need not be submitted to the Bank but would be
retained by SDB and BKPM and made available for review by Bank supervision
missions. In addition, to facilitate disbursements, two Special Accounts
would be established in a fully convertible currency in a bank, and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation for the
Special Accounts will be US$1.5 million and US$3.5 million for BKPM and SDB,
respectively. Replenishment would be made quarterly or when the Special
Account is drawn down by 50% of its initial deposit.
65.       Accounts and Audit.  The accounts of BKPM and SDB are audited by
independent auditors who are acceptable to the Bank. The latest reports were
unqualified. Any change in auditors will require prior approval of the
Bank.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       Benefits.  The main benefit of the proposed project is that it would
provide long-term capital to two principal development finance institutions
for financing essentially manufacturing sector subprojects. As pointed out in
para. 39, long-term capital for the high priority manufacturing sector is
scarce and the proposed project would ease that scarcity. Another major
benefit from the proposed project would be the opportunity for the Bank to
work closely with the PFIs on refocussing of their lending strategies and
upgrading their institutional efficiency. The project will be implemented
during the period when the Bank continues the industrial policy dialogue with
the Government. The subprojects financed would generate jobs and produce a
wide range of products for import substitution as well as for exports,
involving an estimated total investment of US$250 million equivalent.



- 19 -
67.       Risks.  There is no major risk.  A risk exists that an adequate
number of eligible subprojects might not materialize in the forecast commit-
ment period if the current slowdown in the economy persists for a long time.
However, the pipelines of the participating financial institutions have been
reviewed and indicate that the risk of slower than anticipated commitment and
disbursement of the proposed loan is not unduly high. A second risk is that
the institutions may experience financial difficulties, loan portfolio deter-
ioration or the inability to raise long-term resources. However, this is
unlikely as the institutions are viable, well-managed, have conservative debt
to equity limits and enjoy good Government support.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loans.
Barber B. Conable
Attachments
November 25, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                               ANNrx I
Iioge- I or ?
IlWI'NTRY nATA - MAIAYSTA
CROSS NATtONAI. PlttR aT IN  lf85i  119 mmln 28,954                        ANNUAI ItATtl nft CPntmiz
_______________    li7 cIn lis I islit yrIrs'se :nnl MS               ________
3s$  imn      It         T4WF Io 31171v17_    ITFliiuW                           l Tf 911?      191    39H4    3911%
(Nl1 at Market Prices                 2R,955    j0n.n              h,4        7.1          4. q    '1.1     'I. I     .       4.;?    1,19    e.r.   -1 .S
Rrosn Tnmrstle Inveslment              9,124      I2.2            h.7        11.4         H.1    11.1    10..,   I'c.1W               1.1r     4.4   -q.1
C:roam NnttoEnl Snving                 7,Rtl      27.2              A                         A                       A       A        A
KxportH of roodm & NFS                17,174      59.1             h.ll       I.          7.h    1H.11      1. I    -41. A    In.71    1.4   14.1       1.1
Tmperts if rnOIdIN & NI%              I 5,S562    51.7            t')        I.s         1?.1   7:'.4    2rn.,    *i,    11.14        9.0 n     .4   -9.R
OIUTPUIT, I.AIOR FORCE AMn
I'RODtiITIVITY IN 1IH4 /n
Vs Is.. Aede.I EdlQ!vsel                                               Vali',e'l       _r1,.I    L*- v tok 6'Ir
IBs$ mIn                 2_               rF                  r-
Agriciil tri-                                 5,135                 :'1,R              ?.'1              16-.4              : 1.2                '1'. ,
tndutu   ry                                   R,6fI 5               I .n              1.1                2t* tlil                              I
Services                                     10,1H4                 44.'               7.2                                                      In.11  4, 4?  1"7. S
T. tl Avorrngr                        24,034               111f.0              ',. 00.0                             .". In
rOVE RNMrNT FRNANrF
,r nv ral r:ivt i-,ti. ,,i                                 .., rs I --.v. rinlit
M4$ asit        _          .. rNi'  M_ _In                                       - iii  ;:_--
19ElI                             n28 19H,                             lfiH0 19-.41
Cturrenr RpsCriptR                                   24,209         11./                   1.6 I.              2,114         77                   6.4
Current ExpndlIt stirre                               72,147         fl.H                 2'". Ji             ?1 .06.           -                 -1.1
Current Suirplsi                                       2.0n?          2.9                   %.O                 1 ,04K        6,%                   1.1
Development EFxpenditliren /b                         15,5?R         21.6                 1 ,.I                 U,.1%         14                   I  l.S
Foreign Borrowing (net)                                1, 10,F        4.1                  S.                      %,7         I.P                  54,
MONFY, CREDIT ANIl PRICES
1975      IQ76      19J7      197$      1979      1 q81l    IQ1 1171'$;         l44i   I4           l' 19H'
(Mil Isiti "S ,.itst la.srlinii  ed p..rld I   d
Money and Qunril-Mooiey                    10,00l  17.771   14,863   I1,51   71,'Iq   77,/17   12: ,fI  17,,114 4I,IsI 6',' 4.11  .4$ *?n1
Link Credit to Puchlic
Sector (net)                             1,113       I ,1   36    I,n':  IQ!7      -7tl?      54q    ,1,            4 * h  '.,:11It.   4,771   1,6%4
Iank Credit cto PrivAte
Sertnr                                   6,0f77    7,471    11,97I 1         . 1,6  1 ,h.4l   (1 ,I46  76.q76  :!q9147   yt,sI  b1  ,),   47,1449
Money and Ounnt-Money
aG I of tDP                                46.1R    45.S       41i.0     4         4t 4*.14  Si I       451 9     ,n-s     %M*'I 9     4        h.l
Consumer Price Index
(198n - inn)                               in.?   82.3        8H.7      9n.0       01.7     "0."    jrQ9.7 II   II          ' 4         n . 1  I1.4
Annual Percentage
Changes In Consumer
Price Index                                 4.4      72. ,      4.h                 1.        6.7       4,7    *       R       1.     4. 9       rf. 
Riank Credit to PuNblic
Sector (net)                               36.9    -13.5        6.9    -16._                    *     407.5      1%. 7     -H,4       A.5      -6r 51
Wank Credit tn Private SectDr                15.2      20.1      '0.'      ?9.6      ?S.       1'1.0     27.P,    Ih 9       231.1     1 .1       1431
*    Not applicahle.
/a   In 197R prices.
7Th Includes net lending.
Note:  All conversions to dnllars  tn this  table ire at  tile aver;ps(o exsclanpe rolte prevaglInl dsiutiltg ilig ls.In.- r              'svrrs,I.
October 19B6



- 21 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 af 2
TRAID. PAY:IENTS AND CAPTTAL, FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYNRNTS                19HI1 1984          i9XB             MERCHANnTSE EXPORTS (AVERAGF. 1983-85)
-----(115$   I Illn)                                         11S$ milIIon      7.
Export. of goods, NFS             I'i,71l   18,I S:'   17,?')1      Petroleum                       1,623        21.7
Imports of goods, NFS             17,114   J7,866   19,629          Palm oll                        1,60n        10.5
Resource Cap (dericll - -)        -1 611       htl    1,666i        Timber                          I,$49        In.e
Factor Services (net)             -1,U14   -?,2'!41  -2,106         Rubber                          1,453         q. r
Net Transfers                         -q       -19       -10        Tin                               587         1.R
Bnlance on Cuirrient Aecou.nt                                       All other commodities           6,423        42.0
(deficit a -)                  O3/e,,4   -I1(i    -67()
Total                    1            lon.0
Direct Foreign lnvemtmetit         1, 2 I      q1/       7 V4
Net MLT Borriowinig Ia.            2.78      1,43',   2,8,3
Dishurnemerits                   1,1(,4    1,Q49    1,789         EXTERNAL DEBT, TECEMBFR 31, 19R5          US$ min
AmortizitIon                       2116      III,      40fihb
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed             14,061
Subtotal                      4S1!I       :jM4     Lr637         Nonpgiaranteed Private Debt                 2,S41
Total nutstanding & Disbursed             16,902
Other Itemsi n.e.i.                 -617      -h6'   -1,P127
Increase in Reserves (+) Ic           4H       PM    1.14(1
Tnternattnnal Reserves                                              PEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1Q85 Id                7
(end year)                    ti,fni7f  4,1S I     ,021
Public Debt, lncl. guarenteed               10.3
Fuel and Relnted Materials                                          Nonguaranteed Private Debt                    5.3
Imports                            1,R2H    1,424       n.a.        Total Outstanding & nisbursed                1B.6
Exports                            4.0o9    4,8H7       n.a.
Of which:  Crude' Petroleum    3,154    1,714    3.30q
TRRD/IDA LENDING (MARCH 31, I986)         TRRD
CUSS million)
RATE OF EXCHANCE          MS per 11S$             [ISS per MS
Outstanding & Disbursed                   716.H2
1980                      2.18                   0.46           rlndlsbursed                               54.713
1981                      2.3n                   141 3Outstanding mncl. Undisbursed                     1,291.55
1982                      2.14                   *.41
1983                      2.12                   n .14
1984                      2.14                   0.41
1985                      2.48                  nf40
August 1986               2.61                  n03.3
n.a. not applicable.
/a  Public/publlcly  unaranteed deht  only.
lb  Excludes refinancing of MAS,478 million In 198%.
|c  Discrepancy due to conversion to 11SS.
Id  Interest and amortization pavments ns a proportion oF total earnings from exports of goods and non-factor
services.
October 1986



- 22 -                                ANNEX It
Page 1 oE 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS la
An of September 30, 198
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                     (less cancellations)
no.    Year        Borrower                  Purpose                     Bank      Undisbursed
Forty-thrce loans fully disbursed                                          988.40
1717    1979   Malaysia               MUDA II Irrigation                    31.00        4.31
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power IX                                45.00        3.27
1899    1980   Malaysia               Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.           18.00       10.29
1957    1981   Malaysia               Rompin-Endau Area Dev.                40.00       21.10
1960    1981   Malaysia               Trans-Perak Area Dev.                 46.00       31.01
2013    1981   Malaysia               FELCRA I                              37.00       21.92
2145    1982   Malaysia                Industrial Training (Educ. VI)       40.60       28.32
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rlrsi Flectrification (Power X)    66.30           36.47
2147    1982   Malaysia               Malacca Agri. Development             17.75        7.57
2220    1983   Malaysia               Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    44.80          28.91
2291    1983   Malaysia               Sabah-Sarawak Road                    86.22       86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                              70.00       68.23
2471    1985   Malaysia               Small Scale Enterprises               52.10       46.18
2530    1985   FELDA                  FELDA Palm Oil Mill Project           31.20       27.32
2550    1985   Malaysia               Sabah Forestry Tech. Assistance        6.50        6.38
2601    1986   Malaysia               Second Industrial Training            68.50       68.15
2642    1986   Malaysia               Land Settlement Infrastructure        50.00       50.00
2654    1986   Malaysia               Johore Water Supply Project           62.00       62.00
2685    1986   Malaysia               Primary and Secondary Education   127.00         127.00
2686    1986   Malaysia               Port Kelang                            2.10        2.10
2687    1986   Malaysia               Port Kelang                           16.70       16.70
2740    1987   Malaysia               Second Western Johore Agr. Dev.    55.00          55.00
Total Loans (less cancellation)                                 2,002.17
of which has been repaid                                        423.60
Total now outstanding                                           1,578.51
Amount sold                                                         87.96
ot which has been repaid         43.89
Total loans now held by Bank                                    1,490.55
Total undisbursed                                                             808.23
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-23 -                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of Septemb.er 30, 1986
Amount in
Type of             US$ million
Year              Obligor                   business       Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Kalysian Industrial Devel-        Financing          -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (HIDF)
1985      SEAVI-MA                          Money and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                 Cement          1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.             Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles          1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hlardwoods                Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Papec Prod.
Total Gross Commitment                           14.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off                4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Comsitments Now Held by IFC                 9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                    -    0.41    0.41



-24 -                              ANNEX III
MALAYSIA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Loan and Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable or Key Events
(a)  Project prepared by:                          Economic Planning Unit
of the Government, BKPM
and SDB with Bank
assistance
(b)  Time required to prepare project:             13 months
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:               October 1984
(d) First Bank Mission to
identify this project:                        November 1984
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:       October 3, 1985
(f)  Date of completion of Negotiations:           October 16, 1986.  The
project was ready for
negotiations in February
1986 but actual negotia-
tions were postponed at
the reauest of the
Government.
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                March 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Consumer real estate, ocean-going shipping and cocoa growing are not
eligible for Bank financing (para. 44); and
(b) Bank, Government and PFIs will consult annually on interest rates
(para. 60).



MAP SECTION



-~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       I
100-                                        ~~~~~~~~~IOC'                                               lOi'
MALAYSIA
THAI LAND                                                                                                                           Roads
Railways
Ports
.4.  * Airports
Rivers
Mountainous A
Kangar                  -                                                                                                          State  or Div
Alor Seatr                           Ko  P a                                                                             -*-    Internationo
-r 8 ~ IJ7~0  100         200
.- 0tnl A   )     J   t.  {( t  X                                                                                           sKILOMETERS
Kuala Tvengganu
IA A .A',' 
tC    \     l    u~~~~ornfl      )
eW   U   l   ))K~~~uonton
KLuolo Selo.                        o
Poff Kiang                        End-                                                INDONE SIA
G            Molocco      X     |           1~~~~~~~~~orin
'SI GAPORE
I N DONESIA
104'                                                          10l'



IBRD 19374
12-                                                                      I icr
_:1IA
PHILIPPINES
L._~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
.N
>,KudcIl
'us Areas
Division Boundaries
.nal  Boundaries                                                                                                 Kot Kab.lu
::olo KmrJbolu|: 50-,Sndakann,
300              AOO
I _ I tr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(                                                                                     Sam
BRUNEI                                              SA B A H LhadDluBau                      i   /
I)t                                                                             I-)  l -
r 't                          1                               d            , _  _ Sempuvra
Sb            . SA R A WA                                  (
b.. 
-'t    r. thr s been preplred by
-.,    hi Ranks  staff exnclsd`r1I
/                                                       '." )  .  r -    )  _  s ,n -nence of VtW
K   h                                                                                                         Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Ura s'.i rhe. kW/dkHat*c
i?In.~ Jnr-r,ahona'jac
-  I   t                                                                       owrr,rat .. Thr d"ncrJ,11alfjns
*>  \ _ or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.l .rar l"pr t'oaJr?da,es s511n  r
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
,                                                                                               {-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,!r W- 1-torldt:AilK the !
I    N       D      0      N      E      S     I   A                                   fm-, N-atnrol F ance Cotporelsohn.
A 41 an, I-rWory a any
K  A   i     fit .:  .       4 V^w.1CtoSent-ril zdr Ht NOVMBR    18
NO.VEMBER 1985






