Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  50860 
Operation Name 
BR: ALAGOAS FISCAL AND PUBLIC MANAGEMENT 
REFORM 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (50%);Water supply 
(30%);Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (20%) 
Project ID 
P103770 
Borrower(s) 
STATE GOVERNMENT OF ALAGOAS 
Implementing Agency 
STATE SECRETARIATS OF FINANCE, PLANNING AND 
MANAGEMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
February 4, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 28, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 21, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Located in the Northeast region, the poorest in Brazil, Alagoas is a small state with 27.8 thousand km
2
(0.3 percent of Brazil뭩 territory), a population of 3 million inhabitants (1.5% of Brazilian population) 
and a GDP amounting R$15.8 billion in 2006 (approximately US$7 bi or 0.7 percent of Brazil뭩 GDP).  
Alagoas is one of the poorest states in Brazil. It has the highest poverty rate in the country, with half the 
population living below the poverty line. It ranks second-lowest under the Human Development Index.  
In 2006, its per capita GDP was the third lowest in the country, and only 40% of the national average. 
While Brazil and the Northeast in particular have managed to seize new economic opportunities in 
recent years, Alagoas has not. Its economic growth rate over the last decade has lagged both the regional 
and national averages. Social and economic stagnation are likely to persist unless major reforms are 
undertaken. 
The performance of the state public sector is a principal explanatory factor for the precarious economic 
and social conditions of Alagoas. Chronic fiscal disequilibria, poor policy choices and managerial 
inefficiency are behind the inability of the Government of Alagoas (GOA) to turnaround the historically 
difficult economic and social situation of the state.  
Continuous fiscal deficits resulted in high indebtedness that in turn has significantly hampered the 
ability of the GOA to enhance the economic growth conditions of Alagoas and to improve the social 
welfare of its population. The unsustainable fiscal position has been the clearest and the most worrisome 
sign of GOA뭩 institutional dysfunction. Nonetheless, inefficiencies in public expenditure management 
have not only aggravated the impact of resource scarcity on the quality of public service delivery but 
also have further worsened the difficult fiscal conditions of GOA.  
The proposed operation is a US$195.5 million Development Policy Loan (DPL) designed to assist the 
Government of Alagoas (GOA) in taking the first steps in a long-term process of financial and 
management reform. Operating in a difficult economic and political environment, the project will 
support significant, sustainable reforms in key areas of public administration. It will also permit the state 
to leverage recent improvements in fiscal performance and define a program of capital investments. 
Such improvements will be instrumental in enabling the state to meet the larger objectives of reducing 
levels of poverty and achieving levels of economic growth at least comparable to other states in the 
region. 
Page  2
The proposed operation and associated Bank support meet the criteria for engagement with sub-national 
governments agreed under the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2008-2011.  As specified in the 
CPS, the level of Bank lending must be consistent with the credit ceilings specified in each state뭩 PAF 
and must be approved by the STN.  The proposed  operation has been developed on the basis of key 
principles of engagement: 1) a shared understanding of the fiscal and managerial challenges facing the 
state,  ii) state ownership of the program, with policy measures emerging from the authorities own 
initiatives and designed in collaboration with Bank staff; and iii) political commitment at the highest 
levels. 
The Rationale for Bank involvement 
 is based in part on the fact that Alagoas is the poorest state in 
Brazil. A failure to address the state뭩 problems condemns 1.5 million people to ongoing poverty. A 
breakdown of the state administration could also have adverse fiscal effects on a national scale. The 
emergency measures that would be required to address a complete collapse in the state뭩 finances could 
prompt demands for similar treatment by other states, undermining the delicate political balance that 
enables the Federal Government to enforce the Law of Fiscal Responsibility and other regulatory 
constraints that are critical to macroeconomic stability.  
 
The Bank is uniquely positioned to provide this assistance.  In addition to our technical expertise in the 
various areas of the project, the Bank has specific experience in assisting the process of state reform in 
Brazil, through our previous operations in Ceara, the Federal District, Minas Gerais, and Rio Grande do 
Sul. We also offer an assurance of political neutrality. The Bank has no partisan agenda and is therefore 
able to offer advice that might be viewed as politically intrusive if it emanated from the Federal 
Government.  This role is recognized and endorsed by the Federal Government.  Indeed, it is at the 
specific request of the STN and the State Government that we are developing this operation. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The overall goal of the proposed operation is to support the GOA뭩 efforts in taking the first steps in the 
implementation of cross cutting reforms that will be instrumental in enabling the state to meet the larger 
objectives of reducing levels of poverty and achieving levels of economic growth at least comparable to 
other northeastern states. 
To pursue this overall goal, the proposed program defines four specific objectives: 

Consolidation of the State뭩 fiscal adjustment and enlargement of the fiscal space for 
government investments; 

Enhancement of State human resource management to rationalize personnel expenses and 
improve service delivery; 

Reduction of the imbalances in the social security system of civil servants, and; 
Improvement of public sector management system for planning, budgeting and expenditure management 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The operation has four major components associated with each one of the specific objectives set above. 
The program has been structured into a policy matrix, with specific actions for each of the four 
components whose implementation is associated with disbursements in 2 tranches. The four components 
are described in more detail below.
 
Loan Components: 

The 
fiscal adjustment component
 will define specific measures for revenue enhancement and 
improvements in treasury operations and set specific targets for improvement in the each of the 
Page  3
major parameters of fiscal performance to bring Alagoas within the FRL limits and guarantee 
fiscal sustainability in the long run.
 

The 
human resource management component
 will focus on improving the management of 
personnel records to eliminate fraud and overpayments. It will also prepare the groundwork for 
longer term reforms in the level and allocation of staffing and in levels of compensation.
 

The
 social security component 
will focus on improving the administration of the state 
employee pension system and reducing pension benefits to the extent permitted by federal 
legislation.
 

The 
budget management component 
will focus on improving coordination between the budget 
formulation units of sectoral departments (
secretarias
)
and the state secretariat of planning.
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Not Applicable.  The proposed project does not involve any activities that are likely to have any 
environmental impacts. 
 
I. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
IBRD 195.5 
Total 195.5 
 
II. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Fernando 
Blanco 
    
Title: 
 Economist 
LSCPE 
    
Fax: 
 55-61- 
3329-1000 
    
Email:  
fblanco@worldbank.org
Location: 
The 
World 
Bank 
    
SCN Quadra 2 Lote A, 303 
 
 
 
Brasilia, DF. 70712-900 
 
