                         PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                   CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                          AB6901
Operation Name                Ghana Fourth Agriculture Development Policy Operation
Region                        AFRICA
Sector                        AI: Irrigation and drainage (14%);
                              YA: Agricultural marketing and trade (27%);
                              AJ: Animal production (14%)
                              AB: Agricultural extension and research (30%);
                              BC: Central government administration (15%)
Project ID                    P122808
Borrower(s)                   REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Implementing Agency           MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
Date PID Prepared             December 12, 2011
Estimated Date of             January 20, 2012
Appraisal Authorization
Estimated Date of Board       March 22, 2012
Approval

1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Despite impressive recent economic performance, agriculture remains the primary livelihood of the
majority of Ghanaians and disproportionately of the poor. Consequently, sustaining and enhancing
agricultural growth is critical to rural poverty reduction and to the continuation of the structural
transformation process. With strong institutions, and a sufficiently robust framework for public financial
management, Ghana is well placed to receive aid in the form of sector budget support through the
Bank’s development policy lending (DPL) instrument. It also strengthens harmonization and alignment
within the sector.

The fourth agriculture development policy operation (AgDPO 4) is the second in a series of three DPLs
over 2011 – 2013. The proposed credit is noted in the Joint Assistance Strategy and Country Assistance
Strategy for Ghana. It consists of single tranche disbursements of XDR32.8 million (US$50 million
equivalent). The proposed operation would be followed by the fifth AgDPO covering the same policy
areas and designed to deepen and consolidate the implementation of reforms introduced under the
previous and present operation.

2. Proposed objective(s)

The objective of the current AgDPO series is to continue support for the Government’s efforts to foster
agriculture-led growth to achieve the objectives of the Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda
(GSGDA) for 2010-2013. The program development objective is “to enhance the productivity and
competitiveness of Ghanaian agriculture.? Specifically, the proposed AgDPO 4 will continue to support
a policy agenda aimed at enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of Ghanaian agriculture and
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of public spending in the agriculture sector. The AgDPO
series is supporting the achievement of the Government objectives for agriculture-based growth and
poverty reduction as articulated in their Food and Agriculture Sector Development Policy (FASDEP II)
and programmed in the Medium Term Agriculture Sector Investment Program (METASIP). By
supporting implementation of the METASIP, the operation will directly contribute to achieving national
objectives. Monitoring of the impacts will be encompassed within the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture’s sector monitoring apparatus.

3. Preliminary description

AgDPO 4 will build on the reforms, policies and activities supported under the third operation (AgDPO
3). The reform program supported by the operation derives from FASDEP II and METASIP and is
structured along five policy areas that aim to achieve the following: (1) Development of and funding for
demand-driven agricultural technology for improved on-farm productivity, including extension and
education, seed and fertilizer technology adoption and input market development; (2) improving
farmers' market access and market performance, facilitation of out-grower schemes, investment
promotion, and finance; (3) improving irrigation management and development of new irrigation
infrastructure through public-private partnerships; (4) improving the management of the marine and
inland fisheries sector, including conservation of fish stock; and (5) improving agriculture sector
management, priority setting, and resource allocation.

4. Environment Aspects

There are no significant anticipated negative environmental impacts from the activities supported by the
proposed operation and there should be beneficial effects arising from actions aimed at strengthening the
management of land, soil and water and the promotion of good agricultural practices. METASIP
integrates environmental management as critical for sustainable agricultural growth and therefore
proposes to strengthen land and water management. Environmental impact assessments will be carried
out on MoFA’s programs.

5. Tentative financing

Source:                                                                       ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                            0
International Development Association (IDA)                                   50
        Total                                                                 50

6. Contact point

Contact: Jan Joost Nijhoff
Title: Senior Agriculture Economist
Tel: 5337+4119 / 233-302-214-119
Fax: 233-302-227887
Email: jnijhoff@worldbank.org
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD)

Borrower:
Contact: Angela Dannson
Title: Deputy Director, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Accra, Ghana
Tel: 233 302 660935
Email: adannson@gmail.com
