CREDIT NUMBER 5109-GH
Financing Agreement
(Fourth Agriculture Development Policy Financing)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               , 2012


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 5109-GH
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated , 2012, entered into between the
REPUBLIC OF GHANA ("Recipient") and thb INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION ("Association") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
AR TICLE H - FINANCING
2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
thirty two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 32,300,000) (variously, "Credit" and "Financing").
2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Aecipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04. The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
shall be equal to three-fcurths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
schedule set forth in Sch.-dule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. The Payment Currency is Dollar.


﻿ARTICLE II -PROGRAM
301, The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end:
(a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each stch exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Association fol its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request' and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of ans
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Program or any action taken under the Program.
ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
401. 'f he Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it., will be carried out.
ART tCLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
501. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Association is satisfied with
the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program and with the
adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.
5.02.  The Effectiveness Dedline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE VI -- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6,01.  The Recipient's Representative is its Minister responsible for finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Addre;s is:
Ministry of Finance anJ Economic Planning
P.O. Box MB40
Accra, Ghana
Cable:              Telex:                     Facsimile:
ECONOMICON          2205 MIFAEP GH1            233-30-2667069
Accra                                          233-30-2663854
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington. D.C. 20433
Lnited States of Amer:ca
Cable address:      Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423(MCI)         1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.


﻿-4-
AGREED at               ,        O , as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title:
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Authorized Repres tative
Name:   .PLtc            r
Title: 6t


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds
Section 1.   Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipicnt under the Program include the following:
Agricultural Technology for Improved On-farm Productivity
1     lThe Recipient has, through its Cabinet, approved a science. technology and
innovation policy ane a science, technology and innovation development
program, in accordance with the sixteenth paragraph of the Letter of
Development Policy.
.      The Recipient has, thrcugh the Office of the President, constituted, and, through
the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. adequately funded the National Seed
Council, the National Fertilizer Council and the Plant Protection Advisory
Council, in accordance with the sixteenth paragraph of the Letter of Development
Policy.
3.     The Recipient has, through the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, developed
implementation modalities for the 2012 agricultural input support program, in
accordance with the fif.eenth paragraph of the Letter of Development Policy.
Market and Value Chain Development
4.     The Recipient has, through the enactment of the EDIF Amendment Act, adapted
the Export Developme:it and Investment Fund to incorporate an investment fund
window for agricultuie and, through the Ministry of Food and Agriculture.
developed guidelines for the operation of said window, in accordance with the
eighteenth paragraph of the Letter of Development Policy.
The Recipient has, through the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, publicly
disclosed the operational modalities for buffer stock purchases and sales of the
National Food Buffer Stock Company.
Irrigation and Other Infrastructure
6.     The Recipient has, through the Ministry of Food and Agriculture and the Ghana
Irrigation Developnmt Authority, prepared a new irrigation sector
pre-investment framework, in accordance with the nineteenth paragraph of the
Letter of Development Policy.


﻿-6-
Fisheries
7.     The Recipient has, through the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, and the
Fisheries Commission, commenced updating the fishing license register for all
existing industrial and semi-industrial fishing vessels, and has, through the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, effected a suspension of the issuance of new
fishing licenses, in accordance with the twentieth paragraph of the Letter of
Development Policy.
Agriculture Sector Management
8.     The Recipient has, thrcugh the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, developed
a methodology for identifying agriculture sector spending for budgeting
and planning purposes across ministries, departments and agencies, and has
applied said methodology to identify agriculture spending in the Ministry of
Environment, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Trade and Industry
for the Fiscal Year 2012 budget in accordance with the twenty first paragraph of
the Letter of Development Policy.
Section I.   Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.    Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
in the table below:
Amount of the Financing Allocated
Allocations
(expressed in SDR)
(1) Single Withdrawa Tranche                32,300,000
ITOTAL AMOUNT                                32.300,000
C.     Withdrawal 'rranche Release Conditions, No withdrawal shall be made of the
Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied (a) with the
Program being carried out by the Recipient, and (b) with the adequacy of the
Recipient's macroecoromic policy framework.
).    Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree:


﻿-7 -
L     all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
to the Associati on; and
2,    the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in
the Recipient's budget management system, in a manner acceptable
to the Association.
E.     Audit. The Recipient shall:
1.    have the account and the recording of amounts of the Financing into the
Recipient's budget management system referred to in Part D of this
Section audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the
Association:
2.    furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than seven (7) months after the end of the Fiscal Year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shill reasonably request, and make such report publicly
available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the
Association; and
3    furnish to the Association such other information concerning the account
and the recording of amounts of the Financing into the Recipient's
budget manage nent system referred to in Part D of this Section and their
audit as the As ociation shall reasonably request.
F.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
payment for an Excludod Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
from the Associaiion. rfund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
cancelled.
G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 15, 2012.


﻿SCHLEDULE 2
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due               Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 15 and August I S:
commencing August 15, 2022 to and                    1%
neluding February 15, 2032
commencing August 15, 2032 to and                    2%
ineluding February 15, 2052
The percentages represent the per,,entage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specifv pursuant to Seetion 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.


﻿APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
i.    "Cabinef' means the Recipient's cabinet of ministers.
2.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or sevices supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another eredit. grant
or loan;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/RevA
(1986) (the S1T'). or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC. as designated by the Association by notice to the
Recipient:
Group     Sub-group             Deseription of Item
112                 Alcoholic beverages
121                 Tobacco, un-manufaetured, tobacco refuse
122                 Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                 Radioactive and associated materials
667                 Pearls, precious and seniprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718        718,7    Nucilear reactors, and parts thereof: fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, fOr
nuclear reactors
728        728.43   Tobacco processing machifieiy
897        897.3    Jewvelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watehes and watch cases) and
goldsniths' or silversniths' wares
(inciluding set gems)
971                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption:


﻿- 10 -
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
agreements to which the Recipient is a party:
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations: and
(f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds. without the
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
occur.
3.     "Export Development and Investment Fund" and the acronym "EDIF" means the
Recipient's export de-elopment and agricultural investment fund, established
under the Export Development Investment Fund Act, 2000 (Act 582) of the laws
of the Recipient as amcnded thereof, or any successor thereto.
4.     "EDIF Amendment Act" means the Export Development Investment Fund
(Amendment) Act, 2011 (Act 823) of the laws of the Recipient.
5.    "Fiscal Year" means the Recipient's fiscal year commencing January I and
ending on December 3 of each year.
6.    "Fisheries Commissi)n"  means the  Recipient's Fisheries Commission
established under the Fisheries Act, 2002 (Act 625), as amended thereof, or any
successor thereto.
 "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants". dated July 31, 2010 with the
modifications set forth in Section It of this Appendix.
8.    "Ghana Irrigation Development Authority" means the Recipient's irrigation
development authority established under the Supreme Military Council Decree
85 (1977), as amended thereof, or any successor thereto.
9.     "Letter of Development Policy" means the letter from the Recipient's Ministry of
Food and Agriculture :o the Association dated January 30, 2012, under a cover
letter from the Recipient's Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning dated
February 24, 2012 deciaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and request.ng assistance from the Association in support of the
Proaram during its exeution.


﻿- 11-
10.   "Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology" means the Recipient's
ministry at the time res-onsible for environment, science and technology, or any
successor thereto.
11.   "Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning" means the Recipient's ministry at
the time responsible for finance, or any successor thereto.
12.   "Ministry of Food and Agriculture" means the Recipient's ministry at the time
responsible for agriculture, or any successor thereto.
13.   "Ministry of Trade and Industry" means the Recipient's ministry at the time
responsible for trade and industry, or any successor thereto.
14.    "National Fertilizer Council" means the Recipient's National Fertilizer Council
established under Sectian 95 of the Plants and Fertilizer Act, 2010 (Act 803) of
the laws of the Recipient, as amended thereof. or any successor thereto.
15.   "National Food Buffer Stock Company" means the National Food Buffer Stock
Company established aid operating pursuant to the Recipient's Companies Code
1963 (Act 179) of the I w of the Recipient, as amended thereof, or any successor
thereto,
16.    "National Seed Council" means the Recipient's National Seed Council
established under SectiDn 48 of the Plants and Fertilizer Act, 2010 (Act 803) of
the laws of the Recipient, as amended thereof, or any successor thereto.
17.    "Office of the Presiden " means the Recipient's office of the President.
18.   "Plant Protection Advisory Council" means the Recipient's Plant Protection
Advisory Council established under Section 1 7 of the Plants and Fertilizer Act.
2010 (Act 803) of tl-e laws of the Recipient, as amended thereof, or any
successor thereto,
19.   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
enhance agricultural productivity and competiveness, and achieve sustainable
reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the Letter of Development
Policy.
20.    "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
category entitled -Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part 1 of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.


﻿- 12-
Section IL Modifications to the General Conditions
[he modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1I    The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expendizures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3,    Sections 4.01 (Projecl Execution Generally). and 4.09 (Financial Managemenl
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article IV ire renumbered accordingly.
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Ue of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Sec ion 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records
-    (c)    The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such records."
6.     Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
read as follows:
"Section 4.07. Program Mnitoring and Evaluation
(c)    The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably recuest, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Legal Agieements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Financing."
The following terms and detinitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, ar.d the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to ne Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:


﻿13
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
'"Eligible Expunditure' means any use to which the Financing is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Financing Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Pro ec" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows:
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
support of which the Financing is made." All references to "Project"
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program".


