IUfHSOFFICIAL       *    ~L.~
DOCUMiNTS
Supplemental Letter
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
2012
Interna ional Development Association
1818 I Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Re: Credit Number 5109-GH- Fourth Agriculture Development Policy Operation (AgDPO IV)
Section 5.01 of the General Conditions:
Financial and Economic Data
Dear Sirs:
In connection with the Financing Agreement of this date between the Republic of Ghana
(the Member Country) and the International Development Association (the Association) providing
financing for the above-captioned Project, and the General Conditions made applicable to the Financing
Agreement, I am writing on behalf of the Member Country to set forth the following:
1.      We understand and agree that, for purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, the
Member Country is required by the Association:
(a)    to report "long-term external debt" (as defined in the World Bank's Debtor Reporting
System Manual, dated January 2000 (DRSM)), in accordance with the DRSM, and in particular, to notify
the Association of new "loan commitments" (as defined in the DRSM) not later than 30 days after the end
of the quarter during which the debt is incurred, and to notify the Association of "transactions under
loans" (as defined in the DRSM) once a year, not later than March 31 of the year following the year
covered by the report; and
(b)   to: (i) notify the Association  at least three  months prior to incurring
any non-concessional long-term external debt, of its intention to incur such debt, together with the
proposed terms of such debt; and (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Member Country on the matter. For purposes of this paragraph, "non-concessional long-term
external debt" means any long-term external debt (as defined in the DRSM), but excluding private debt
(as so defined), with an estimated grant element (GE) calculated in the manner published from time to
time by the Association (see, www.worldbank.or/ida under "reports") of less than (i) 35% or (ii) the GE
for determining concessionality established by the International Monetary Fund in any Extended Credit
Facilit> arrangement, Standby Credit Facility or Policy Support Instrument with the Member Country in
effect it the time of such notice, whichever is higher.


﻿-2-
2.      We    represent  that  no  defaults  exist  in  respect  of   any   external  debt
(as defined in the DRSM). It is our understanding that, in making the Financing, the Association may
rely on the representations set forth or referred to in this letter.
3.      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by having a duly authorized representative of
the Asso ciation sign in the space provided below.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By:_
Authorized Representative
AGREED:
International Development Association
By:
Authorized Representative


