Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 21 742-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.3 MILLION (US$45.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY SERVICES PROJECT
January 22, 2001
Rural Development Operations 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Negotiations)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
U.Shs. 1845 = US$1
US$.00054 = U.Shs. 1
FISCAL YEAR
July I June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP        Agricultural Extension Project
APL        Adaptable Program Lending
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DFID       Department for International Development (formerly ODA) of the United Kingdom
EC         Economic Commission of the European Union
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GoU        Government of Uganda
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
LGDP       Local Government Development Program
MAAIF    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MFPED    Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MTEF       Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NAADS   National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
NARO       National Agricultural Research Organization
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Developlment
PDP        Personal Development Program
PERC       Public Expenditure Reform Credit
PMA        Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture
PME        Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
SG2000    Sasakawa Global 2000
UNFA       Uganda National Farmers' Association
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:    Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David Nielson



UGANDA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective                                                          2
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Contex                                                                       2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary                                                            5
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale                                                                      9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        13
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                              13
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      15
5. Environmental                                                                      17
6. Social                                                                             18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                              19
1. Sustainability                                                                     19
2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21
G. Main Credit Conditions                                                                22
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            22
2. OtherConditions                                                                    22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         23



Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        37
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                              38
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              48
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    67
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           72
Annex I 1: Monitoring and Evaluation Processes                                          74
Annex 12: Annual Planning Timetable for NAADS Stakeholders                              80
Annex 13: Environmental Screening Note                                                  82
Annex 14: Legal and Regulatory Issues                                                   86
Annex 15: Transition from Agricultural Extension to NAADS                               89
Annex 16: Staffing, Program Planning and Operations Diagrams                            90
MAP(S)
IBRD 31132 and 31137 National Agricultural Advisory Services Project



UGANDA
National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTRI
Date: January 22, 2001                            Team Leader: David J. Nielson
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams          Sector Manager/Director: Sushma Ganguly
Project ID: P044695                               Sector(s): AE - Agricultural Extension, AG - Agency
Reform
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s): Rural Development
Povert Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan       [X1 Credit      [1 Grant        [1 Guarantee         [ I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 45.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years):                                   Years to maturity:
Commitment fee:
Financing Plan:        Source                                Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        0.00           0.00           0.00
IDA                                                            36.86           8.14          45.00
BORROWING AGENCY                                                9.12           0.00           9.12
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL                            14.50           3.00          17.50
DEVELOPMENT
LOCAL GOVTS. (DISTRICT, SUB-COUNTY) OF                         10.80           0.00          10.80
BORROWING COUNTRY
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                              20.34           3.00          23.34
FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                            2.16           0.00           2.16
Total:                                                         93.78          14.14         107.92
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL INDUSTRIES, AND FISHERIES
Address: PO Box 102, Entebbe, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. Silim Nahdy, NAADS Secretariat
Tel: (256 41) 34 54 52              Fax:                 Email: ascimO4(infocom.co.ug
FY         2002       2003        2004      2005       2006       2007       2008
Annual    1.50        2.00       6.00       8.50      11.00      10.00       6.00
Cumulative    1.50        3.50       9.50      18.00     29.00      39.00      45.00
Project implementation period: 7 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/16/2001 Expected closing date:  06/30/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall development objective of the program would be to assist poor men and women farmers to
become aware of, and to be able to adopt, improved technology and management practices in their
farming enterprises so as to enhance their productive efficiency, their economic welfare, and the
sustainability of their farming operations.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress toward meeting the development objectives of the program would be monitored systematically.
Client records and surveys, beneficiary assessments, the records kept by advisory service providers, and
sectoral statistics would all be used to monitor progress under the program. Among the performance
indicators to be used for this purpose would be the following:
*   the number of male and female farmers and the percent of client farmers of NAADS who
are adopting improved technologies and management practices as a result of NAADS;
*   inventory of measures taken by male and female farmers as a result of NAADS to improve
the economic outcomes and the environmental sustainability of their farming operations;
*   men and women farmers' own opinions about their own productive and economic progress
each year;
*   productive and economic efficiency of male and female farmers participating in NAADS
(raw farm-level and aggregate data and corresponding descriptive statistics); and,
*   cash income earned by farm families participating in NAADS (raw farm-level and
aggregate data and corresponding descriptive statistics).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Click here to get to the CAS Document
Document number: 16540-UG        Date of latest CAS discussion: November 16, 2000
The primary objective in the Bank's assistance strategy for Uganda is poverty reduction through rapid
economic growth. The CAS identifies several priority avenues through which to achieve this objective,
among which are the following: the revitalization of rural development; acceleration of human
development; improvement in governance; capacity building in the public sector; improvement in the
delivery of public services; political and economic empowerment of women; and improvement in
environmental management. The proposed project would address each one of these identified priorities
through the development of the proposed agricultural extension service.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture in Uganda has grown steadily (over 4% per annum) for over ten years. The recent growth has
accompanied a profound re-orientation of the public sector's role in the agricultural economy. This re-
orientation included significant liberalization of the agricultural economy and complementary institutional
reforms which down-sized, privatized, and decentralized public agricultural institutions.
While the recent growth provides momentum for rural development in Uganda, it builds from a very low
base. Real agricultural GDP in the early 1 990s had yet to re-attain the level achieved in 1970. The real
incomes of rural people today are still well below their 1970s levels.
The main sources of agricultural growth over the past ten years - expansion of area under cultivation, and
a substantial improvement of incentives for farmers to produce - have largely been played out as sources
of sustained growth. While area expansion will continue for some time, land is becoming scarcer and
expansion will not be able to keep pace with population growth in rural areas. Even if it could, the
growth impact of expansion would diminish over time as it is primarily marginal and remote lands which
are available for exploitation. Consequently, area expansion by itself will not even be sufficient to
maintain rural per capita incomes at their present levels.
- 2-



The other source of recent growth in the sector, improvement in the incentive regime, came from the
liberalization of the economy. Further gains can still be made through improving the functioning of
agricultural commodity markets and reducing marketing margins. While such gains will help to create a
growth-nurturing environment, they will be of a "one-shot" nature. They will not provide a sustained
impetus for continuous growth in the sector.
The Need for Higher Productivity and Higher-Valued Products. As area expansion and further gains
in the incentive regime are unlikely to support sustained growth in the future, Uganda must look to other
sources of growth for the agricultural sector if rural development is to continue. The two possible sources
for growth are, on the one hand, increases in the productivity of land and labor, and on the other hand, a
shift in production patterns from low-value staples to higher value commodities. Past growth occurred
without the support of either. Since the sixties, land and laborproductivities have both suffered secular
decline while production patterns have exhibited a structural shift towards relatively low-valued food
crops. There is great scope for improvement on both counts. With agriculture being the principle
economic activity in rural areas, it is here that the Government's strategy for the revitalization of rural
development is anchored.
The first pillar of the strategy, increasing agricultural productivity, focuses on transforming Uganda's
"low-input / low-output" agriculture into a modern science-based agriculture capable of sustaining growth
in the sector and raising the incomes of farm families. At the level of the farm, this would require better
access to improved technologies and to modern inputs. It would also require increases in farmer know-
how.
The second broad pillar of the strategy focuses upon helping production patterns to shift from low-value
staples to higher-valued commodities. Here, Uganda has an important factor in its favor - the long
tradition on farms in many parts of the country to produce at least small amounts of coffee for market.
The strategy would be one of seeking to build upon and expand this tradition of partial market-
orientation. The strategy would seek ways to help farmers to produce a variety of products, some of them
of higher value for commercialization in order to be able to increase their household incomes. Some of
the measures necessary to pursue this strategy are similar or complementary to those required to raise
productivity. At the level of the farm, they would include acquiring the knowledge of how to produce and
to market higher-value crops, greater access to the required inputs, and better access to reliable outlets for
such products.
The public sector has a role to play in creating the conditions under which these transformations can
occur at the level of the farm. This is recognized in the Government's Statement to the December 1998
Consultative Group Meeting entitled: Towards a Sector Wide Approach: Developing a Frameworkfor the
Modernization ofAgriculture in Uganda and finalized in the March 2000 Plan for Modernization of
Agriculture: Eradicating Poverty in Uganda which calls for public sector investments and programs in a
number of areas including the following:
(a) agricultural research and extension;
(b) the establishment and maintenance of a regulatory and policy environment in which markets and
distribution chains for modern inputs (including credit, fertilizer, seeds, equipment, etc) and for farm
products can develop more fully;
(c) improved rural and agricultural education;
(d) the establishment of clearer property rights to land in order to encourage investment and efficient use
of natural resources; and,
(e) development of infrastructure such as rural roads which will be needed for growth in the marketing of
both inputs and outputs.
-3 -



A Focus on the Relevance of Agricultural Research and Extension. While public sector support is
needed for a variety of activities if agricultural growth is to be achieved, as indicated above, Uganda's
Plan for the Modernization ofAgriculture (henceforth PMA) assigns first priority to agricultural extension
and research. Further, focus is placed on achieving greater relevance in both the research and extension
programs. The analysis underlying the PMA suggests that the low productivity observed in Ugandan
agriculture today is not the consequence of a lack of research activity, nor of a lack of extension activity.
In fact, well-established institutions are reasonably active in both research and extension. Rather, the low
productivity of Ugandan farmers can be traced to a lack of adequate interface between research and
extension, on the one hand, and farmers on the other. Correspondingly, at present, farmers' needs do not
sufficiently drive the orientation of research and extension efforts (causing lack of relevance), while the
know-how and the technologies which are produced by the system, even when relevant, are not widely
taken up by farmers (suggesting lack of effectiveness in the transfer of technologies).
Based on this analysis, the emphasis of Uganda's strategy is being placed upon improving the relevance
as well as the effectiveness of the process of technology generation and transfer, i.e. of the agricultural
research and extension programs. This means redoubling efforts in the extension area, but now under
institutional arrangements which have been transformed to ensure that extension would become more
directly responsive to farmers' needs. It also suggests maintaining the program of investments in
agricultural research, but as in extension, now under a set of institutional arrangements transformed so as
to improve the responsiveness of agricultural research activities to the needs of extensionists and of the
farmers they serve.
The Government's vision as outlined in the PMA is for a more relevant and responsive extension program
which would be achieved through a redesign of the public extension program according to the following
guiding principles:
focusing the content of both programs on enhancing intensification and productivity of small-
holder agriculture;
increasingly, bringing research closer to (and even into) farmers fields;
making linkages between farmers, extensionists, and researchers more demand driven;
further decentralization of responsibilities for extension to the level of the sub-counties;
contracting out field extension, technical-backstopping, and training ofextensionists;
allowing for a plurality of providers and methodologies at the field level; and
learning from, and building on, successful experiences.
The vision which emerges from the PMA, as described above, is widely shared among the various
stakeholders including government officials, farmers, NGOs and civil society, and the community of
donors. This vision and its accompanying guiding principles for agricultural research and extension are
also consistent with the those advocated in the recent FAO/World Bank publication entitled Agricultural
Knowledge and Information Systems for Rural Development, Strategic Vision and Guiding Principles
(FAO and World Bank, Rome 2000).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The pillars of the PMA strategy for agricultural and rural development and poverty alleviation in Uganda
(as identified above) are to: (1) improve on-farm productivity; (2) switch production patterns in the
direction of higher valued farm products; and (3) to increase the level of commercialization of Ugandan
farmers. NAADS would address each of these issues directly. NAADS would provide a way for farmers
to gain access to and familiarity with a broader range of technical and managerial tools and techniques
than they would otherwise have at their disposal. This would allow farmers toimprove the factor
productivity of their farms. It would also help them to change the mix of products which they produce so
that they might produce higher valued crops and animal products in order to achieve greater value added
on the farm. Finally, it would help them to become more effective participants in input and output
markets. This would help to improve the terms of trade available to farmers in the market placewhile
allowing them to gain improved access to a greater range of inputs and a wider variety of output market
options.
-4-



The NAADS Program would address the agricultural development issues identified above through
adopting the PMA's vision and guiding principles for agricultural research and extension (summarized in
the section above) as the conceptual foundation upon which the institutional framework for NAADS has
been constructed. In opting to go this route, the Government has made several strategic choices, among
which are the following (all of which are elaborated upon further in subsequent sections of this
document):
* independence and flexibility - rather than housing the NAADS Board within the MAAIF or
NARO, the government has opted to create a small and semi-autonomous unit of MAAIF - a
NAADS Board. This will allow the program to escape from old bureaucratic structures and also
some of the civil service restrictions which limit the flexibility and effectiveness of many public
sector institutions;
* further decentralization - the government has opted to move responsibility and funding for
agricultural advisory services from the district level to the Sub-county and farmer level. This -
will increase the relevance and the accountability of the program through creating greater client
ownership;
* contracting out services - the government has opted to give districts strong incentives to
downsize the number of extensionists they employ as civil servants in favor of contracting the
services of agricultural advisers. This will improve efficiency and accountability in the system
while promoting pluralism of approach and skills by opening up the program to a broader range
of service-providers. It will also allow greater flexibility with regard to the terms under which
advisers are hired, both in terms of salary and tenure;
e cost-sharing - the government has opted to institute at a gradual and deliberate pace the
requirement that farmers and local governments begin to pay part of the cost of the program.
This will increase the sense of ownership of the program by clients and will increase the level of
accountability which is achievable within the system. Further, over time it will move the
program in the direction of greater sustainability as the scale of the national government's and
donors' commitments to the program are gradually reduced;
- donor coordination - the government has opted to request that donor support to NAADS be
coordinated in a common commitment to the NAADS program and a common mechanism
through which to provide funding to the program. This will allow for a less-piecemeal pattern of
support and will allow the government to achieve much greater ownership of the program.
All of the above strategic decisions pose challenges to the government in its efforts to pursue the vision
outlined in the PMA. Some of the challenges posed by the strategic decisions above are political in that
they will challenge the status quo. In that each of the above strategic decisions represents a departure
from the past, they are challenges to the capacity of the various stakeholders to make a new and more
demand-driven system work. A more detailed description of the nature of the proposed program follows
in the remainder of this document.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would finance five components: (1) Advisory and Information Services to Farmers; (2)
Technology Development and Linkages with Markets; (3) Quality Assurance - Regulations and
Technical Auditing of Service Providers; (4) Private Sector Institutional Development; and, (5)
Program Management and Monitoring. A brief description of each component is found di.-ectly
below while a more detailed description of each of the components is contained in Annex 2.
- 5 -



Component 1 - Advisory and Information Services to Farmers. This component would support
initiatives by men and women farmers, working together in groups with their Sub-county
government, to contract agricultural advisory services. Matching grants would be channeled from the
national level of Government through the districts for farmers (through farmers' fora and their local
governments) to use in financing such contracts. Services which would be contracted under this
mechanism would include Program Orientation and Group Mobilization for farmers, Participatory
Planning, Farm Advisory Services, and Information and Communications.
Component 2 - Technology Development and Linkages with Markets. This component would
foster strong linkages among farmers, advisers, and researchers and between farmers and markets by
making funding for technical support available to farmers and their farm advisors. Funds would be
available at the District level with which to contract the services of researchers and others with
relevant expertise to work with farmers and farm advisors in farmers' fields on specific technology,
market development and adaptation. The following areas will be supported: On-Farm Technology
Development and Market Linkage Development and District/National Priority Projects and Training
Events.
Component 3 - Quality Assurance - Regulations and Technical Auditing of Service Providers.
Under this component, the NAADS Board and Secretariat, in conjunction with MAAIF, would set
standards and provide a regulatory framework for service providers, by setting and enforcing
standards for qualification and performance, and developing a model contract. Specific activities to be
funded include Standard Setting and Regulation of Service Providers and Technical Auditing of
Service Providers
Component 4 - Private Sector Institutional Development. This component would establish a
program to assist firms and other institutions to become eligible for award of contracts to provide
services to farmers, within the NAADS program. Specific activities to be funded include Local
Service Provider Development and National Representative Organizations/Institutions Support. In
addition, the program will provide a comprehensive package of benefits, including training, which
will enable the transition of employment status of existing public sector extensionists to employment
in the private sector.
Component 5 - Program Management and Monitoring. This component will establish and
support institutional entities at both the National and District levels of Government, which shall co-
ordinate and administer the program. At National level, this will include establishment and
maintenance of the NAADS Board and Secretariat. At Local Government levels, district and sub-
county NAADS co-ordinators will be supported to facilitate bottom-up planning process of the
program, liaise with other stakeholders to provide consultation and dialogue. It will support the
facilitation, co-ordination, financial management and reporting, financial auditing of the programs
financial flows, and oversight of service contracts. In addition, a Management Information System
will be established for monitoring the program, as well as baseline surveys and data gathering
procedures for impact evaluation. Specific activities to be funded include the expenses related to
establishing and operating the NAADS Board and Secretariat, planning - design, institution, oversight
and assistance with the planning processes, Training and Capacity Building for NAADS staff, and
Management Information System and Impact Evaluation.
- 6-



Indicative              Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector         Costs       % of    financi       Bank-
(US$M)    Total         ng      financing
(US$M)
1. Advisory and Information       Agricultural          76.41      70.8     31.50         70.0
Services to Farmers                Extension
2. Technology Development and      Research              7.02       6.5       3.00         6.7
Linkages with Markets
3. Quality Assurance - Regulations  Public Sector        1.48        1.4      0.50         1.1
and Technical Auditing of Service  Management
Providers                          Adjustment
4. Private Sector Institutional    Public Sector         4.75       4.4       2.00         4.4
Development                        Management
Adjustment
5. Program Management and          Public Sector        18.26       16.9      8.00        17.8
Monitoring.                        Management
Adjustment
Total Project Costs                   107.92      100.0     45.00        100.0
Total Financing Required                      107.92     100.0     45.00        100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As indicated in Section B.3 above (and elaborated upon in greater detail in Section B.4 and in Annex 2),
the main institutional reforms to be supported by NAADS would be the following: (1) the establishment
of a NAADS Board and Secretariat at the national level as a semi-autonomous entity under the MAAIF;
(2) decentralization of responsibilities and budgets for agricultural advisory services from district
governments to a coalition of farmers (through Farmners' Fora) and their sub-county governments; (3)
contracting the services of most agricultural advisers rather than employing them as career civil servants;
(4) establishment of a system for the registration of agricultural service providers as professionals in that
field; (5) collecting contributions toward financing the cost of the public agricultural advisory service
from districts, sub-counties, and farmers; and (6) coordinating, and harmonizing the support of donors
(including IDA) for NAADS. A "NAADS' Organization Bill" is being drafted to establish specific legal
mechanisms through which points (1) through (5) above would be implemented. Point (6) would be
governed through the terms of a Memorandum of Understanding between participating donors and
Government.
-7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
NAADS is expected to generate several types of benefits. These can be summarized, by stakeholder, as
follows: (1) for the public sector - an agricultural advisory service which is more efficient and more
popular than that of the past; (2) for farmers - an agricultural advisory service which is more relevant and
responsive at helping farmers to raise their own incomes in sustainable ways through helping them to
achieve greater productivity in their farming operations and to become more effective at participation in
input and output markets; (3) for the private sector - growth in the agricultural sector as productivity
increases and opportunities for employment in rural areas as service providers under NAADS; (4) for
consumers - greater and more reliable production of food; and (5) for rural communities and local
governments - greater ownership over local programs and greater economic growth in rural communities.
While benefits from NAADS would be enjoyed by a variety of actors, a considerable proportion of the
program's benefits would be captured by the poor. The principal clients of the program would be
relatively poor farmers - partly because the program would be focused on serving this group, and partly
because this group makes up over ninety percent of the farming population.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
MAAIF will have overall national responsibility for the program, with oversight by MFPED. In
participating Districts and Sub-counties, Sub-county and District Local Councils and Administrations
will be responsible for support and supervision at their levels. Primary responsibility at grassroots will
be vested in the clients of the advisory services (farmers themselves) through their elected Farmer
Fora at Sub-county, District and National level.
The NAADS Board will guide program policy and strategy and will facilitate, supervise, and support
the NAADS Secretariat. The NAADS Board will answer to the Permanent Secretary of MAAIF. In
addition to oversight duties, Board members will from time to time address specific program issues,
assist in promotion of the program, and troubleshoot problems. The Board will be comprised of the
following representatives: eight representatives of farmers and Farmer Forums; two representatives of
agro-industry; one representative of the Local Government Authorities Association; one
representative each from the Office of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Gender, from MAAIF,
MFPED and NARO; and the one representative of the NGO/academic sector. The Board will elect a
Chairperson from among its members and will hold regular meetings twice per year. The Program
Director will be the Secretary to the Board.
The NAADS Secretariat will report to the Board and will be responsible for the implementation of the
program at the national level. The Secretariat will have a relatively small core staff (initially fewer
than 10 professionals) which will include a Program Director; a Financial Controller; a Planning
Manager; an Agriculture and Extension Manager; several Program Supervisors; Procurement Staff;
and a Community Development Manager. During initial stages of the Program, a group of additional
contracted staff (perhaps four to five professionals) would be needed to help initiate the program in
Districts and Sub-counties as they enter the Program.
The staff of the Secretariat will be responsible for program planning, direction, support and
management of operations in their respective field of competence. They will be given a wide measure
of discretion and authority. They will be competitively recruited on the open market and will be given
fixed term contracts. Since the majority of decisions and functions in routine management will be the
remit of the appropriate Farmer Forum, Sub-county and District personnel, the major task of the
Secretariat members will be in overall planning, technical guiding and oversight of operations. They
will also perform a catalytic and promotional function in advancing program coverage and impact. A
financial management and procurement committee will be formed ensure that suitable financial
management systems and control procedures are established and maintained. This committee will
review, on a quarterly basis, the programs management reports (PMRs), including financial
statements, output monitoring report, and procurement management reports. The Secretariat will
meet formally at least monthly and will have authority to co-opt such others of the management staff
or external advisers into its meetings as needed.
-8 -



While the Program will be national in coverage, participation will not be mandatory for any level of
the local government system. Rather, the opportunity will be offered to all of the 45 Districts and 975
Sub-counties to participate. In order to participate, Districts and Sub-Counties will be required to
meet participation requirements and to sign participation agreements (see annex 14). For Districts,
participation agreements will be signed with the NAADS Secretariat, while for Sub-Counties,
participation agreements must be signed with the respective District. Local Governments at District
and Sub-county level would be responsible for most local administrative and regulatory aspects and
support requirements for NAADS. Where new functions are to be carried out, these will be added to
the appropriate organs of the local authority. Parish, Sub-county and District Councils will, at their
respective levels, be responsible for policy, assessment of effectiveness and general oversight of the
NAADS, and voting counterpart financial contributions. In each participating District, the program
will finance contracting by the District of a NAADS Co-ordinator. The Co-ordinator will be
responsible for ensuring the smooth operation of NAADS program and integration of NAADS into
the District Annual Work Plan and Budget.
In addition to being NAADS' principal clients, farmers will participate in the implementation and
administration of the program through farmer fora at the local, district, and national levels. Where
they do not already exist, farmers' fora will be formed by through open and transparent democratic
processes among farmers groups and associations at Sub-county, District and National levels.
Fornation and support of the Fora will be initiated and fostered by NAADS, utilizing both local
Community Development staff from the Sub-county and District, as well as specialist service
providers and technical advisers as needed. Provision Farmers' Fora will have a generic set of rights
and responsibilities within NAADS (which may be amended to suit site-specific circumstances) to:
- plan and contract services to be carried out under NAADS
- arrange for and carry out monitoring and evaluation of NAADS activities
- work with NAADS service providers to establish their work plans
- review local government plans for agricultural development
- provide feed-back and feed-forward between Farmers' Fora at different levels
- furnish the farmer element of NAADS Board membership at the national level.
Service Providers will be individuals, small groups of advisers, consultancy and professional
companies, parastatal agencies, NGOs, academic institutions, or commercial companies. As the
number of existing service providers is currently relatively small, the NAADS program itself would
devote resources and attention to the development of the service provider sector, helping interested
institutions, firms, and individuals to establish themselves as potential service providers under
NAADS. The main role of these service providing agencies will be to arrange and perform the
advisory, research and development services in response to the demands of farmers, Sub-counties,
Districts and the NAADS Secretariat. Agricultural trading, input supply and produce marketing,
storage, processing and manufacturing organizations will also be important contributors.
Organograms for Staffing, Program Planning and Operations are attached as Annex 16.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several program design alternatives were considered at early stages in the preparation of NAADS.
Among the alternatives considered were the following three:
-9-



*   Continuation of the Existing Agricultural Extension Program At the time of initial discussions
between the Government of Uganda and the World Bank with regard to the possibility of preparing
a new project in agricultural extension, an earlier Agricultural Extension Project (AEP) with IDA
funding (IDA Credit 2424-UG see below) was nearing its close. For some time, it had been
understood between the World Bank and the Government that the AEP would be followed with a
second project - AEP-II. Support for this notion began to erode during AEP's final two years of
implementation for at least two key reasons. First, AEP proved to be quite unpopular among the
many stakeholders who felt that AEP had been expensive yet ineffective in the field. Secondly,
many stakeholders questioned the utility of the institutional structure of AEP - finding it to be top-
heavy, bureaucratic, and unsustainable. Finally, many observers felt that the linkage between
research and extension were not sufficiently responsive to farmers' needs. It was felt that the new
extension program should have a much more fully developed capacity to seek services and attention
from research institutions on a demand-driven basis. For these reasons, it was decided to make a
break from the institutional structure of the then-existing agricultural extension program - i.e. to
design a system which would be decentralized, mostly contracted out, and which would seek
sustainability through cost-recovery and cost-sharing. These are the program design characteristics
which underlie the NAADS proposal;
*   Merger of the Agricultural Advisory Program with the Agricultural Research Program
Consideration was given to housing NAADS within the National Organization for Agricultural
Research (NARO). This proposal was initially suggested by the then-Minister of Agriculture and
was primarily based on two reasons. First, it was hypothesized that such a merger could lead to
more effective interaction between the two programs in the field. Second, NARO is considered to
be a successful and well-managed institution with greater administrative capacity and greater
flexibility (by virtue of its semi-autonomous status) than is present in most public sector institutions.
This makes it attractive as the home for a Program. However, some felt that housing a program of
the magnitude of NAADS within NARO might overburden NARO's capacity. It was also argued
that housing extension within an already existing research institution might place NAADS in a
situation in which it did not enjoy equal priority as research within the institution. Ultimately, the
idea to merge extension into research was rejected by the Government of Uganda in favor the
creation of a NAADS Board and Secretariat as a separate semi-autonomous entity of MAAIF.
*   An IDA-supported Program (without other donors). At the outset, discussions between the
Government of Uganda and the World Bank about post-AEP support to extension did not explicitly
involve other donor partners. However, the idea to pursue the possibility of collaboration among a
number of donors had appeal for at least two main types of reasons. First, a number of the donors
already support agricultural advisory services through their own separate programs. Some of these
have been quite successful, and it was hoped that by working with them it would be possible to
build upon their experiences and their successes. Further, it was felt that the proliferation of
separate programs, each with its own donor, makes it difficult for the government to become the
true owner of any one of the programs. By merging and harmonizing donor support around one
program (i.e., NAADS) it was thought that the government would be in a better position to establish
its own ownership of the program. Secondly, because many donors had been highly critical of AEP
(and of similar projects in other countries), it was felt that harmony around a program concept might
only be reached if donors and other stakeholders all worked together. For these reasons, NAADS
has been developed with the intention of securing funding and technical assistance from all donors
together in a collaborative and harmonized fashion.
- 10-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned). A number of donor financed programs in support of agricultural research and
extension have been carried out in recent years in Uganda. Some are still ongoing. Several of the most
important of these are listed below.
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                          Project                          (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Bank-financed                                                            Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Agricultural Extension         Agricultural Extension Project (Project ID     U                U
P002991; Credit No. 2424-UG; completed)
Agricultural Research          Agricultural Research & Training - I (Project   S               S
ID P00293 8; Credit No. 2446- UG;
completed)
Agricultural Research          Agricultural Research & Training - II (Project  S               S
ID P059127; Credit No. 3204-UG ongoing)
Cotton Sector                  Cotton Sector Development Project (Project      S               S
ID P002977; Credit No. 2609-UG ongoing)
Livestock Services             Livestock Services Project (Project ID          U               U
P002930; Credit No. 2176-UG; completed.
Vegetable Oil                  Vegetable Oil Development Project; (Project     S               S
ID P041097; IFAD Ln No.442-UG); ongoing.
Capacity Building in Local     Local Government Development Program            S               S
Government                     (Project ID P002992; Credit No. 3295-UG);
planned)
Other development agencies
Smallholder Agriculture         African Development Bank -
North West Smallholder Agricultural
Development Project
Agriculture Support             DANIDA
Capacity Building in District   UNDP/IJNCDF - District Development
Government                      Project
Capacity Building in District   Netherlands Assistance
Government
General Support to District     Ireland Aid
Government
Decentralisation and Agricultural    Belgian Survival Fund and IFAD
Extension
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 11 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
g* Sector & Themes  x KM
A review of the Bank's involvement in agricultural extension projects reveals several lessons
with regard to successful extension projects. As a general principal, projects have not been
successful when they have lacked a clear statement of goals and of the means to be employed in
achieving the goals. The clear objective of this project would be to assist poor farmers in
Uganda to become aware of, and to be able to adopt, improved technology and management
practices in their farming enterprises so as to enhance their productive efficiency, their
economic welfare, and the sustainability of their farming operations.
The success of most extension programs is particularly tied to the responsiveness of program
design to the specific needs of the client. Thus, a single extension model cannot be designed for
global application, and the participation of local professionals and beneficiaries throughout the
project planning and implementation stages is of critical importance. The decentralized,
demand-driven nature of the proposed project is consistent with this lesson from experience.
A further general characteristic of successful extension programs is that a responsive training
program has been established for the staff of the extension system. A training program has been
of fundamental importance in providing extension staff with the skills necessary for their jobs
and to maintain their awareness of the development of new technologies. The proposed project
explicitly addresses this need through its training component.
Flexibility to meet the needs of a heterogeneous population of beneficiaries has often been
difficult to achieve when the delivery of extension services has been limited to one delivery
mechanism. In that this project will make it possible for sub-counties and beneficiaries to
contract any qualified institution or entity to deliver advisory services will permit great
flexibility in the types of delivery mechanisms which might be employed.
Financial sustainability has frequently been a problem in past extension projects, as has the
government's ability to cover recurrent costs of a typical extension system, even during the life
of the project. The nature of the cofinancing matrix adopted for the proposed project will
address both of these issues. First, the financial burden will be shared among beneficiaries, sub-
counties, districts, and the national government. Secondly, the relative share of the burden
covered by each will gradually be shifted away from the national government toward
beneficiaries and sub-counties. This arrangement will improve the likelihood that the proposed
project will be sustainable.
In a number of past projects, appropriate technologies have not been available for transfer to
beneficiaries. This problem has been closely tied to the lack of systematic linkages between
agricultural extension and the agricultural research community. The proposed project, through
the use of subject matter specialists and the monthly meeting format, is expected to result in a
close linkage and two-way feedback system between extension and research. With regard to the
lack of available technologies, this is a problem which does not currently exist in Uganda. In
fact, it is purported that a large backlog of available but as of yetunadopted technologies
already exists. Further, in order to ensure the continued development of new agricultural
technologies, an IDA-financed project to support and strengthen the agricultural research
system in Uganda became effective earlier this year.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government of Uganda has demonstrated strong commitment to the NAADS Program in several
ways. First, in its own strategy for the development of the agricultural sector (its Plan for the
Modernization of Agriculture), the government has given the highest priority to improving productivity
and profitability in agriculture through investments in agricultural extension and agricultural research.
Secondly, the government has established a strong Task Force to design the NAADS Program and to
carry it forward to implementation. The Task Force has been working for a year and through dialogue
with stakeholders and through preparation of plans and proposals has generated widespread agreement
and ownership for the NAADS proposal. Finally, the government has included funding for NAADS in its
Medium-term Expenditure Framework (indicating that it would support an amount of up to US$ 100
million over a period of five years).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
World Bank support has been instrumental in the development of NAADS in several respects: (I)
synthesis of the experience to date with agricultural services and rural development in Uganda; (2)
development of guiding principles for agricultural advisory services in Uganda based upon the Ugandan
situation and international experience; and (3) coordination of an effort to encourage all interested donors
to harmonize their support to agricultural services in Uganda through agreeing to common support to
NAADS.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[x]Other (specify) NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Economic analyses indicates that the proposed NAADS program is economically viable. Details of
this analysis can be found in Annex 4.
The analysis is based on an assumption that advisory services contact (direct and indirect) at least
per cent of farm households in target sub-counties and these contacted households have an
adoption rate of 50 per cent. This would result in over 15 per cent of farm households in target
sub-counties adopting improved practices and increasing productivity and returns. By year 7 of the
program, this would total to approximately 420,000 farm households in 56 districts. The vast
majority of these beneficiaries would be smallholder farmers.
The levels of adoption used in the analysis are comparable with those achieved in other agricultural
extension projects in Uganda. Further, under the NAADS demand-responsive service delivery
approach it is anticipated that higher adoption rates will be obtained.
Sector-level analysis indicates that a minimum productivity improvement of slightly less than 1 per
cent per year is required per adopting farm household for NAADS to be economically viable and
achieve an EIRR of 12 per cent. This level of productivity improvement is feasible, and equates to
an overall increase in agricultural GDP reaching 0.4 per cent by year 7. For a farm household
adopting improved practices this would equate to an incremental return of approximately US 7 per
year. Such levels of return will be achievable by farm households with the adoption of three to
four improved practices over the first seven years of the program.
Farm enterprise-level analysis, based on the assumptions that 15 per cent of farmers in target
districts and sub-counties would adopt improved crop technologies for the three main crops
(matoke, beans and maize) on at least 33 per cent of the adopting farmers' existing crop area,
indicates that the NAADS program would be viable, resulting in an EIRR of 19 per cent and a NPV
of US$ 10.21 million. This outcome is sensitive to variations in the crop area adopted for improved
practices.
- 13 -



Beneficiaries. The economic analysis has focused on farm household production, involving farm
diversification and intensification: with improved practices with crop and livestock enterprises;
higher value crops (coffee, cotton, oilseeds) and improved livestock (breeds and management).
While most of the beneficiaries will be smallholder subsistence farmers, a small percentage will be
farmers progressing into semi-commercial (market oriented) and commercial farm operations.
The farm household returns indicate that typical farm households will have the incentive to
participate in NAADS, and the capacity to contribute to the cost of NAADS advisory services.
Other Benefits. NAADS will generate a range of other benefits that have not been assessed
quantitatively. Benefits will include the improved human resource skills developed with the
program training and the strengthening of the local institutional capacity. The program training to
private extension service providers, extension staff and subject matter specialists, research staff in
technical and management areas will develop improved skills and potential productivity
improvements. The training of village groups, farmer contact groups and farmerfora at the local
level will strengthen local institutional capacities and empower farmers. Both the human resource
skills and institutional capacity will generate benefits when used in other economic and non-
economic activities.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The GOU places great priority on agricultural extension and intends to increase its overall expenditure
on agricultural extension activities from the current level of 0.4 per cent of agricultural GDP. Based on
the GOU's Medium Term Framework (May 2000) projection of an annual 7 per cent real increase in
GDP, and an increase in the tax and non tax revenue projections by I per cent a year from the existing
base of 12 per cent of GDP which is low compared to equivalent African countries, it is anticipated
that overall government revenues (of the order of US$ 133 million) will be more than adequate to fund
incremental NAADS expenditures. The Medium Term Framework revenue growth forecasts are
feasible provided structural reforms are implemented and donor support continues at current levels. A
more conservative estimate of a 3 per cent increase in GDP growth and a 0.5 per cent increase in
revenue collections, also indicates that incremental revenue at existing percentage allocation to
extension would be adequate to support funding for NAADS. Finally, the government has included
funding for NAADS in its Medium-term Expenditure Framework (indicating that it would support an
amount of up to US$ 100 million over a period of five years).
The main source of district revenues are conditional and unconditional grants, local revenue collections
and, for a select few districts, equalization grants. Currently, part of the unconditional grants received
are used to pay agricultural extension staff wages, with some districts also using locally raised revenue
to supplement these funds. Generally, at present, the amount of unconditional grant funding results in
very little if any funds being available to meet extension operating costs. Conditional grants include,
among other things, the PAF funding for the sub-county graduate extensionist program - an ongoing
program under which the national government has made these funds available to Districts to encourage
them to hire extension staff with graduate (university level) training. The PAF support will continue
for a further two years after which the cost for provision of this service will be transferred to the
district government. The districts participating in NAADS will, on a requisite basis and as part of the
transition to private provision of advisory services, retrench their existing field extension staff. This
reduction in staff numbers will involve both severance and redundancy payments which will be funded
by donors, and a reduction in recurrent wage costs for the districts. It is estimated that by year 7 the
aggregate reduction in wage costs will be approximately US$ 2 million per year. The wage cost
savings will be adequate to meet counterpart contributions to NAADS.
3. Technical:
The establishment of NAADS is not dependent upon any significant technical issues being resolved. The
challenges faced are primarily institutional in nature as discussed in the following section.
- 14 -



4. Institutional:
The establishment and implementation of NAADS would represent significant reforms of the institutional
arrangements under which the public sector (and donors) provides support to agricultural advisory
services. These reforms would be challenging in terms of the institutional capacity of existing
government structures (particularly at district and sub-county levels) but would also require that several
new structures be put into place and that several new mechanisms for managing government and donor
resources be developed and put into use. The principal institutional challenges posed by NAADS are
identified below in the remainder of this section.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The bulk of NAADS activities would be implemented at the sub-county level through a partnership
between farmers and sub-county government. The mechanism for farmers' participation in this
partnership would be the Farmers' Forum. A Farmers' Forum would be established in each participating -
sub-county. Once established, each Farmers' Forum would be developed and empowered over time to
take an ever greater role in the management of the advisory services - particularly in managing the
finances and the decisions over advisory service contracts. NAADS would provide assistance to farmers,
sub-counties, and Farmers' Fora in this process.
The actual provision of services at the field level would be carried out by contracted service-provider
agencies. While some agencies capable of carrying out advisory services and related technical assistance
activities already exist, some would need capacity building. NAADS would provide capacity building for
already existing agencies and would help new agencies to form and to develop the capacity to win and to
fulfill service contracts.
4.2 Project management:
At the national level, a NAADS Board and NAADS Secretariat would be created in order to coordinate
support from donors and from the national level of government to the program. This would be a new
semi-autonomous agency of MAAIF. The Board would be representative of all stakeholders, while the
NAADS Secretariat would be constituted as a small professional office charged with administrating the
program (as described in greater detail in Annex 2). Establishment of the NAADS Secretariat would be a
condition of Credit Effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement system in Uganda is in the process of being reformed both at the Central Government
and Local Government levels. The reforms have three main features; enactment of a new procurement
law, converting the CTB into a policy and regulatory body, and creating contract committees at
ministerial and parastatal levels which will be responsible for procurement. The Statute under which
NAADS will operate is now being drafted. Once enacted, the Statute will be supported by
comprehensive regulations based on the new procurement law. In the framework of these regulations,
the NAADS statute will allow subcounties to carry out NAADs related procurement, and empower
Farmer Fora to carry out the contracting of farmer advisors.
The procurement risk in this operation is considered high. In order to enable this project to operate
under the Project Management Report PMR) based disbursement system as proposed, an action plan to
mitigate the risk has been developed, which includes development of a procurement plan, employment
of Procurement Specialists at National (2) and District (as needed) levels, and a Procurement Capacity
Assessment of NAADS Secretariat and the participating Districts and Sub-counties and subsequent
development and implementation of a training program based on a needs assessment.
- 15 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
The proposed financial management arrangements for NAADS include the pooling of donor resources
through a foreign currency Budget Support Account maintained in a commercial bank. The pooling
arrangements will be governed by a Joint Donor Pooling Memorandum of Understanding. Funds to
enable the implementation of program activities will be transferred from the GOU Consolidated Fund
as a conditional grant to the districts and sub-counties. The funds flow mechanism will therefore
follow as closely as possible the existing government mechanisms for such transfers and the
Guidelines under the Poverty Action Fund (PAF), which is the government's mechanism for
transferring conditional grants to districts. Detailed NAADS financial management and accounting
procedures and guidelines for Districts and Sub-Counties will be documented in a Financial Procedures
Manual. These will take into account the requirements of the Local Government Act and the Local
Government Financial and Accounting Regulations and will follow as closely as possible the PAF
Guidelines entitled 'General Guidelines for Planning and Operation of Conditional Grants under the
Poverty Action Plan', and 'Guidelines for the Planning and Operation of the PAF Monitoring and
Accountability Grants'.
The recently prepared Draft CFAA Report on Uganda concluded that the central and local government
financial management systems represent high fiduciary risk. In addition, a comprehensive risk
assessment was also carried out during appraisal. To mitigate those financial management risks and to
provide comfort to stakeholders participating in the proposed Common Flow of Funds Mechanism, the
following areas will need to be addressed:
(a)    The enabling legislation, the NAADS Organization Bill, should be enacted. The NAADS
Board of Directors and the NAADS Secretariat should be appointed.
(b)    A representative Financial Management and Procurement Committee should be
established. It should meet quarterly to review the quarterly consolidated reports that
provide a trigger for replenishing the Budget Support (Forex) Account.
(c)    Following its establishment, the financial management staff of the NAADS Secretariat
should include: a Financial Controller, an Accountant and 4 rotating Quality Assurance
Reviewers
(d)    Prior to being admitted into the CFFM, a capacity assessment should be undertaken of
each proposed District and Sub-county, using or relying on LGDP assessment criteria.
Additionally, appropriate staff training on the use of the Financial Procedures Manual,
referred to in (e) below, should be arranged for all Districts and Sub-counties prior to their
participation in the CFFM.
(e)    A Financial Procedures Manual should be prepared, covering "inter alia": accounting
system (manual and computerized), flow of funds/timing of flows and triggers, chart of
accounts, quarterly reporting formats (financial, activities and contract management),
records management/internal controls, eligibility criteria for participation by Districts and
Sub-counties etc. The Manual should be integrated with PAF and LGDP arrangements.
A Financial Management Consultant should be engaged to prepare the Manual.
(f)    By effectiveness, an external firm of auditors should be appointed under the auspices of
the Office of the Auditor General on TORs acceptable to stakeholders, including
provision for rotational/continuous auditing on a sampling basis throughout the financial
year.
(g)    A Memorandum of Understanding should be agreed by participating stakeholders.
Sections in the Memorandum should include: annual approval of budget/work plans,
quarterly cash flow forecasts, commitments, flow of funds/timing of flows and triggers,
procurement, reporting, review and evaluation, external audit, timing, etc.
- 16-



To satisfactorily address the aforementioned items, a Financial Management Action Plan has been
prepared. Key actions have been included as conditions of credit effectiveness. The completion of
these actions will enable the disbursement ofIDA's contribution to program funding to be made on the
basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs). In that regard, a financial management review of the
Program will be undertaken one month prior to the expected effectiveness date by a World Bank
Financial Management Specialist.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Consultations were held with government and non-government stakeholders between March and October,
2000. Their comments have been taken into account and incorporated in the EMP. In addition, a pest
management plan was prepared as part of the environmental analysis and is available in the project files.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP describes the potential positive and adverse environmental impact of the program.
Specifically, it is expected to result in increased agricultural production and productivity, better
husbandry of already cultivated land thereby reversing degradation and reducing pressure to open up
marginal land, a larger proportion of commercially oriented farmers, and a higher proportion of farm
output marketed. To mitigate the potentially adverse impacts of agricultural intensification, the
Programme will ensure through contract specifications that the service providers promote best
practices in land management and water and vegetation conservation. For example, technical packages
for application in upland areas will discourage use of land on severe slopes for cultivation and include
conservation techniques such as vegetative contour barriers and water harvesting bunds.
The programme will support training of input suppliers in the precautionary measures required for the
handling, labeling and application of agro-chemicals under field conditions. Input suppliers will be
expected to pass on this information to their client farmers. Support training of farmers and advisory
service providers in appropriate use and handling of agro-chemicals. Service providers will be
expected to include these issues in their training of farmer groups and associations. Theprogramme
will also promote both reduced input production systems and avoidance of the use of pesticides
whenever practicable by using alternative pest management methods, including a best mix of
biological or cultural controls. In this regard, a Pest Management Plan was prepared as part of the
Environmental Analysis for the National Agricultural Advisory Service Programme (NAADS) in
Uganda. The Pest Management Plan aims to ensure that pest management activities under the NAADS
will be sustainable and that health and environmental risks of pesticide use are minimized; and that the
capacity for implementation of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and regulatory control of pesticides
will be strengthened.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: September 8, 2000
The Environmental Management Plan has been reviewed by the Ugandan National Environmental
Management Agency. The final version is now available for public distribution.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultations were held with government and non-government stakeholders between March and October,
2000. Their comments have been taken into account and incorporated in the EMP.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
- 17-



The NAADS Secretariat and in particular the Planning Manager and the Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer will supervise and monitor compliance with all environmental requirements in accordance with
contract specifications. The NAADS Secretariat and or designated local government will meet with the
contractors to review non-conformance with contract requirements and determine remedial actions to
be taken. Objectives of meetings will be to review the overall status of contract implementation,
determine any required changes in design or implementation arrangements needed to ensure
achievement of the contracts and legislative environmental compliance. Monitoring and record
keeping of conformity with environmental contractual obligations will rest with each contracted
service provider. To demonstrate conformity with environmental obligations and responsibilities each
contractor will be required to maintain up-to-date written records for presentation to and inspection by
the NAADS Secretariat and/or designated alternates at local government level. This monitoring
arrangement will ensure that all potential adverse environmental impacts are identified, and mitigation
measures taken in a timely manner to negate potentially adverse situations.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Four important social issues would be addressed through NAADS: (1) the extremely high prevalence of
poverty among farm families; (2) the gender inequities which characterize farm life and community life
in rural areas; (3) the importance of developing social capital among rural people and among the farming
population in particular; and (4) the problem of HIV/AIDs in rural Uganda. The first two of these issues,
rural poverty and gender concerns, are included explicitly in the Project Development Objectives and this
is reflected in the Outcome/Impact Indicators (see Annex 1). Gender issues are also addressed within the
Output Objectives and Indicators, as are concerns and desired outcomes under NAADS as related to third
social issue raised above, i.e. the development of social capital among rural people. The principal
anticipated outcome with regard to HIV/AIDs would be greater awareness and openness about the nature
of the problem among people in rural areas.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A fundamental building block of the proposed institutional structure for NAADS is the decentralization of
control and responsibility for the program to farmers. Participatory methods will be used to capture their
concerns, their ideas, and their wishes in the annual work programs for agricultural advisory service
providers in each participating sub-county. In addition, farmers' participation will be mandated in the
structure of the farmers' fora at the sub-county, in the NAADS Board at the district level, and in the
constitution of the NAADS Board at the national level. Other stakeholders (public sector,NGOs, agri-
business) will also have explicit representation in the main decision-making bodies at each level of the
NAADS program. These issues are further discussed in other parts of this document (see Annex 2 and
Section B.4, for example).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration withNGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs and civil society will have several avenues through which to participate in NAADS. First, some
NGOs would participate as implementers of the program through competing for and being granted service
contracts to: carry out advisory services; to provide assistance and guidance to rural communities in
establishing farmers' fora and in carrying out the participatory planning processes at local levels; to carry
out learning and development activities and training events; and to provide technical assistance to
farmers, to agricultural advisers, or to NAADS staff on a wide variety of issues. In order to do so, they
will first have to register as qualified service providers. In addition to the above,NGOs will also be able
to participate in decision-making about NAADS - as members off the farmers' fora, and as members and
dialogue partners with the NAADS Board at district and national levels.
- 18 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The overall proposed institutional design for NAADS is explicitly oriented toward achieving poverty
reduction among poor farmers, in part through helping farmers to build social capital to work together in
taking control and responsibility for their own advisory services. The issue of gender will be dealt with
through emphasis in annual work programs, through recommended gender composition of advisory
service provider teams, and through emphasis on these gender-related issues in the training of the service
providers. HIVlAIDs prevention would be a specific topic in which advisers would receive training and
which they would be expected to include in their annual program of work with rural communities and
farmers.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
NAADS would develop and carry out a systematic and multi-dimensional monitoring and evaluation
program (as described in detail in Annex 11). Among the issues which would be included in this
program would be the social issues raised in the preceding paragraphs - namely, the extent to which: (1)
poorer farmers consistently receive priority attention from NAADS agricultural advisers; (2) women
farmers and farm family members receive attention from the NAADS program in appropriate proportions;
(3) poorer farmers have been included in meaningful and central roles in the NAADS program planning
processes at all levels; and (4) the NAADS program is proactive in promoting methods to avoid
HIV/AIDs as well as appropriate responses to the disease for those who have already acquired it.
NAADS perfornance in each of these areas would be monitored using both quantitative and qualitative
techniques as elaborated upon in Annex 11.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP                       Yes
4.01)
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                          No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                           No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            Yes
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                         No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                          No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                    No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                     No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50,                   No
GP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP                      No
_ 7.60)
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
No pesticides will be procured by the Program (see paragraph E 5.2 above).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
At the outset (for the first five years of the Program), NAADS would have budgetary integrity in that it
would be scaled at the level established within the Government's Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) and the PMA. The longer term sustainability of the program would be ensured by the gradual
shifting of the burden of cost to user-farmers and local governments.
- 19 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of access to relevant and already     M         Under NAADS, agricultural advisers would
existing technology and market                       help farmers to improve their own abilities to
opportunities could pose an immediate                access such market opportunities through
constraint on the options available to               becoming more effective participants in input
farmers for improving on-farm incomes                and output markets
Stagnation on the technology frontier for  N         A recently approved IDA Credit (ARTP-II)
farming due to insufficient development              will provide support to the agricultural
of effective agricultural research                   research activities from the supply side, while
programs at NARO, at the university                  demand-driven support for research activities
level, by NGOs, and in the private                   will be provided through NAADS
sector; and lack of access to technologies
being developed in other countries
Reversal of reforms to the policy regime   M         Support to the ongoing development and
for the agricultural sector, and failure to          implementation of Uganda's Plan for the
develop the rural infrastructure needed to           Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) will help
nurture small business enterprises and               to keep the agri-business policy and
agricultural markets                                 infrastructure "environment" on course -
NAADS will inform the further development
of the PMA process. Support for
macroeconomic policy, and relevant sectoral
policies, which are conducive to overall
growth of the economy in rural areas would be
provided through IDA's planned Poverty
Reduction Support Credit which will be
focused on rural development issues
Communication and information              M         NAADS would include an emphasis at the
management remain difficult in rural                 field level and at the district level on the
areas as the requisite levels of rural               development of communication infrastructure
infrastructure and relevant human capital            and on the development of knowledge and
fail to develop                                      information management in rural areas
From Components to Outputs
Politically-driven delays in               M         Steady interaction with the Parliamentary
Parliamentary authorization for NAADS                Committee on Agriculture has kept them
informed and has made it possible for their
input to be reflected in the design of NAADS.
Such interaction will be continued. It is
expected that NAADS will be attractive
politically as well as technically and is likely
to receive broad support
Delays in budgetary transfers from         M         The transfer of budget is formally provided for
national to district and from district to            in the Local Government Act. As experience
sub-county level                                     accumulates, it is expected that this process
- 20 -



will be smoother and more reliable over time.
Ongoing technical assistance from a variety of
programs will help. NAADS will put into
place a very transparent and simple financial
management system in order to facilitate
NAADS matching grants
Not all participating districts, sub-         M         Required contributions start small and grow
counties, and farmers pay their share of                gradually over time as the value of the
the cost of the program                                  program is proven. Where participants refuse
to contribute, the program would be
withdrawn
Districts and sub-counties have               S         Technical assistance will be offered to local
difficulties handling their roles in the                governments through NAADS, and in addition
administration of NAADS - both in                       a number of other ongoing programs
terms of financial and technical                        (including the IDA-financed LGDP) are doing
management                                              more general capacity-building in local
government
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible points of controversy in the NAADS proposal are, for the most part, centered around two issues:
(1) the required change in employment status and locus of employment of existing agricultural extension
agents (as civil servants of the districts); and (2) the decision about the level at which to place
responsibility for contracting agricultural advisory service providers - district, sub-county, parish, village,
producers' organization.
With regard to the first issue (private sector service providers vs. civil servants), participation by any
district or sub-county in NAADS will not be mandatory. However, NAADS will offer districts and sub-
counties strong incentives (in the form of matching conditional grants) to utilize NAADS funding to
contract the services of agricultural advisers. There will also be a comprehensive package of support
offered to existing staff, including training to enable ease of transition to private sector advisory service
provider, and funds for retrenchment. It is probable that those extension staff who are effective would be
hired by service providers and would continue to work in the field under these new arrangements rather
than as civil servants. In fact, it is likely that the terms of employment which it would be possible to offer
under NAADS service contracts would attract many extensionists to leave their civil service posts
voluntarily. So, for those extensionists with marketable skills, for district governments, and for farmers
themselves, the contracting out arrangement is a win/win situation. In any event, the shift away from civil
servants and toward out-sourcing arrangements is an outcome fully consistent with the Government's
strategy for the sector as outlined in the PMA.
With regard to the second issue (the level at which to place responsibility for the program), a judgment
call must be made. On the one hand, decentralization of the responsibility to the level of the farmers
would be desirable in terms of making the service responsive and accountable to the needs of farmers.
However, the level of capacity to manage a program at local levels is a constraint to decentralization. The
decision to establish joint responsibility for the program between farmers and local government at the
sub-county level represents a pragmatic solution to how far decentralization can be pushed while not
going beyond the level at which implementation capacity can handle the program. Over time, as
experience with the program accumulates, it is expected that further decentralization would be tested and
then mainstreamed.
- 21 -



1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i) The NAADS Secretariat is fully established under the MAAIF with a director, a financial controller, an
accountant, and program supervisors.
(ii) A Memorandum of Understanding defining the use of the Common Funding Mechanism for donors
funds in a form satisfactory to IDA has been signed by government, by IFAD, and at least one other
participating financier, and has become effective under its own terms.
(iii) A representative Financial Management and Procurement Committee has been established under
terms-of-reference satisfactory to IDA.
(iv) A NAADS Program Implementation Manual, acceptable to IDA, is completed and has been made
available to IDA.
(v) A Financial Management and Procedures Manual, acceptable to IDA, covering "inter alia":
accounting system (manual and computerized), flow of funds/timing of flows and triggers, chart of
accounts, quarterly reporting formats (financial, activities and contract management), records
management/intemal controls and eligibility criteria for participation by Districts and Sub-counties, has
been made available to IDA.
(vi) An external firm of auditors has been appointed under the auspices of the Office of the Auditor
General on TORs acceptable to stakeholders.
(vii) A NAADS Budget Support Account has been opened in a commercial bank and a NAADS Program
Account has been opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA in at least on participating District and
in at least one participating Sub-County within that District.
(viii) Participation Agreements have been signed by at least one District and one Sub-County within that
District.
(ix) The IFAD Loan Agreement has become effective.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Disbursement
For disbursements above a cumulative amount of $ 1.38 million, the following actions will have been
achieved:
(i) the NAADS Board has been established as a statutory body under which the NAADS Secretariat
shall function, and;
(ii) the Borrower has established a legal framework satisfactory to IDA which would;
(a) provide for the registration and legal existence of farmers fora at the national, District and
Sub-county levels, with powers of the fora to receive public funds to carryout Sub-projects
,and
(b) grant powers to farmers fora and Sub-county authorities at the Sub-county to carry out
procurement of goods and services worth up to US$50,000 per contract under NAADS.
General Covenants
(i) The Government of Uganda will carry out NAADS in accordance with the Letter of Development
Policy.
(ii) Each year of the Program, no later than the end of June, the Government will submit to IDA and
other donors, in form and content satisfactory to IDA, an annual work program and budget for
NAADS together with milestones to be achieved.
(iii) The Government will follow IDA-approved guidelines and procedures in the procurement of
goods, services, and consultants to be financed by IDA funds.
(iv) The Government will submit a joint audit report of NAADS to IDA and other donors within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.
(v) The Government will submit joint progress reports to IDA and other donors at the end of the
second quarter of each year.
- 22 -



(vi) At the beginning of NAADS' third year, the Government will arrange for a joint Mid-Term
Review of the Program's implementation performance. As part of its preparations for the Mid-Term
Review, the Government will arrange for an independent report on performance and progress to be
carried out by an independent entity with findings to be made available to donors at least two weeks
prior to the Mid-Term Review.
(vii) The Government will ensure that all agricultural extension and advisory services receiving
support from the national government would be consistent with the division of responsibilities
between the public and private sector as provided for in the NAADS program and as laid out in the
Letter of Development Policy (in Paragraph 49) which provides assurance that staffing of the field
extension services will be made consistent with the PMA and NAADS principles. It is understood
that the principles referred to include those of: (a) contracting out field extension services and
technical backstopping; and (b) allowing for a plurality of providers of extension services. Therefore,
the Government shall cease its financing of further recruitment of field extension staff at any level of
Government. Further, Government will require that, within six months of each District's entry into
NAADS, a plan for the retrenchment of existing extension staff would be inplacefor that District,
including qualifications for severance and training support to assist staff to become eligible for further
employment in the private sector.
(viii) The Government will ensure that Districts and Sub-Counties will only be eligible to participate
in NAADS if they have met each of the eligibility requirements for participation in the Program as
presented in Annex 14 of this PAD.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.
*| <   ~ /       ,              _ _   _ _   _  _ A   _   _
DaVi    e NesonSuhaGguys.Adm
Team Leader                     Sector Manager                          Manager
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of                Indicators                  Monitoring &             Critical Assumptions
Objectives                                              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To achieve poverty          *  the agricultural sector  *  national accounts          *  political stability
reduction through rapid        achieves a growth rate   *  national household          *  further development of
economic growth; the           equal to that of the rest    income surveys                the ecentralization of
revitalization of rural         of the economy over the                                   themeent
development; acceleration      period of NAADS three    *  national and local             government
in human development;          phases                       government budgets and    *  macroeconomic stability
improvement in              *tefinancial statements
governance; capacity           the gap between rural                                  *  maintenance of peace
goeane capacit                incomes and urban
building in the public         incomes an uand                                         *  further development of
sector; improvement in the     over  Is proje                                             the state of rural
delivery of public services;                                                              infrastructure
political and economic      *  non-farm rural
empowerment of women;          economic activity grows
and improvement in             steadily each year
environmental management.   *  the share of public
sector funds for the
agricultural sector which
is spent at district and
sub-county levels of
government (combined)
reaches 75%
To establish an effective  *  Measures of             Monitoring through              *  agricultural sector prices
and sustainable demand-        productivity in farm         Progress Reports and          and policies are
driven agricultural advisory   enterprises of NAADS         Disburess   Reports           conducive to successful
service which men and          participants exceed          Disbursement Reports          farming and to the
women farmers will be able     Ugandan averages                                           development and
to manage and employ as a      Measures of household    Evaluation of Progress through    expansion of the sector
tool~~~~~                Mesue ofl householdntif
tool to help them to identify  well being improve over   *  Supervision Mission        *  continued integration of
and pursue opportunities to    time for the majority of     Reports (periodic);           rural agricultural input
increase their own             priiaigfrnr                                                 n  uptmreswt
productivity and incomes in    participating farmers     *  Client Surveys and            and output markets with
a sustainable manner.       *  # of men and women           Beneficiary Assessment        intenational economies
farmers and percent of      (annual);
client farmers who are             .    . .i*  continued development
adopting improved       *  Evaluation Mission             of the local levels of
technologies and             ICR)e and                    government and of their
management practices         C                             capacity to generate and
as a result of NAADS     *  Audit Reports (annual)        manage funds
*  men and women                                          *  farmers and their
farmers' own opinions                                     representatives are
about their own                                            allowed and empowered
productive and                                            to take progressively
economic progress each                                    greater responsibility
year                                                      and control over the
NAADS contract at local
levels and over NAADS
decisions at higher levels
- 24 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of                Indicators                  Monitoring &          Critical Assumptions
Objectives                                              Evaluation
Output from each           Output Indicators:           Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1 - differentiated    *  # of districts which have  *  Participatory       *  relevant and already
categories of male and female   signed participation          monitoring and             existing technology
farmers have demand-driven      contracts to enter NAADS      evaluation carried out     and market
access to professional advice   program                       at subcounty level         opportunities are
and guidance on the                          .   .                  .                    developed and made
management of their farming  *      # of sub-counties wlth  *  financial records         available by public and
and agri-business operations    farmer forum formally      *  audit reports              private research
operating; extension plan                               institutions and by
approved by farmer                                      agri-business
forum; advisory service
provider contracted and
operating in field
* # of agricultural advisers
employed by NAADS (by
gender)
*   # of farmers being served
by NAADS (by gender)
* % of farmers served who
are satisfied with service
(by gender)
Component 2 - fanners and    *  # of technology            *  Reports from farmers    *  continuous
advisors receive demand-        development activities        fora, compiled by          development of
driven attention from           undertaken in participating   districts.                 effective agricultural
1.  agricultural scientists    sub-counties w/ the help  *  Surveys                     research, market
and technicians;           of scientists and                                        information and
2.  input and output           technicians contracted                                   information and
market advisers and        under the direction of                                   communications
entrepreneurs; and         NAADS advisers and                                       services at NARO, at
3.  information and            farmers w/ funding from                                  the university level, by
communications             NAADS                                                   NGOs, and in the
technicians and                      . of marketing workshops                      private sector; and
services                   and #o marketinmgoroientp                                open access to
projects undertaken by                                  technologies being
farmers and advisersi                                   developed in other
participating sub-counties                              countries
w/ the help of agri-
business advisers and
entrepreneurs contracted
*   # of information and
communication initiatives
undertaken in participating
sub-counties w/ the help
of technical assistance
contracted
- 25 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators                 Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
_______________ __               ..  Evaluation
*  decrease in # of
subcounties where supply
of technologies is a
constraint
*  overall demand for
improved technologies
increased
Component 3 - potential       m  # of potential service      *  registration records     *  maintenance and
advisory service providers        providers which have       *  number of service            further development of
receive orientation and           participated in NAADS             tract                    business environment
assistance in establishing        orientation workshops and      conacts                     which permits and
credentials and capacity to      induction training events                                   encourages small
fulfill advisory service      *  # of contracted service                                     enterprise to emerge
contracts under NAADS;            providers participating in                                 and operate in rural
,   providers participating in                       ~~~~~~~areas
and,                              periodic training,
in a form graduated over time     facilitation, and
contracted service providers      coordination events
receive guidance and
assistance in maintaining
credentials and capacity to
fulfill advisory service
contracts under the program
Component 4 - the             *  # of potential service      *  Regulations approved        (as above)
establishment of regulations      providers meeting              by NAADS board
and standards for service         required standards         *  Reports from technical
delivery, a registration          # of contracted service        audits
scheme, and a regular process
of technical audits of serviceprvdswhe
of technical audits of service  performance is assessed as
providers                         satisfactory
Component 5 - the             *  NAADS Board                 *  Progress Reports         *  commitment is
institutional structures          established and                    . .                     maintained and
required to start-up and to       functioning effectively    *  Participatory Program        demonstrated w/in
operate NAADS are                                   fully        Assessmentsygovt. to the
established and maintained at     staffed and fuinctioning                                   independence and
National and, in participating    effectively                                                "lean-ness" of the
Districts, at district and                                                                   NAADS structure at
subcounty levels.             *  Farmers Fora established                                    national and district
and functioning in each                                   levels
participating District and                                 NAADS Board and
Subcounty, enabling                                        Farmers For a
substantial participation in                               maintain substantial
project decision making                                    control over
programme decision
making
- 26 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of                Indicators              Monitoring &          Critical Assumptions
Objectives                                           Evaluation
Project Components I Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
components:               component)                                           Outputs)
Component 1 - Advisory    US$ 76.4 million           Planning through Annual        Parliament and
and Information Services to                          Work Programs and Budgets      Ministry of Finance
Farmers.                                             (annually);                    provide adequate
funding for NAADS
Component 2 - Technology  US$ 7.0 million            Monitoring through Progress    NAADS budgets from
Development and Linkages                             Reports and Disbursement       national level arrive on
with Markets                                         Reports (quarterly and         time at local govt.
annual);                       destinations
Component 3 - Quality     US$ 1.5 million            Evaluation of Progress         Districts, Sub-counties
Assurance - Regulations and                          through Supervision Mission    & farmers all pay
Technical Auditing of                                Reports (periodic);            agreed share to
Service Providers                                    Evaluation Mission Reports     NAADS
(mid-term and ICR); and
Audit Reports (annual);
Component 4 - Private     US$ 4.8 million                                            Capacity of District and
Sector Institutional                                                                 Sub-County
Development                                                                          Governments to play
their role in
decentralized program
continues to be
strengthened through
LGDP process
Component 5 - Program     US$ 18.3 million
Management and
Monitoring.
- 27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$76.40 million
Advisory and Information Services to Farmers
This component would support initiatives by men and women farmers, working together in groups with
their Sub-county government, to contract agricultural advisory services. Matching grants would be
channeled from the national level of Government through the districts for fanners (through farmers' fora
and their local governments) to use in financing such contracts. Services which would be contracted
under this mechanism would include Program Orientation and Group Mobilization for farmers,
Participatory Planning, Farm Advisory Services, Information and Communications; and Training
Events.
The content or scope of the advice, and the categories of farmer, would be specified at Sub-County level
by farmers themselves. It is anticipated that advisory services would be contracted to provide guidance
with regard to the technical and economic management of specific crop and livestock enterprises; value-
added activities (processing, grading, marketing); community level natural resource management and
conflict resolution; setting up of group activities such as pooled labor, savings schemes, marketing; and
gaining access to sources of finance.
Orientation and Group Mobilization
Most Sub-counties have a few farmer groups or associations, while others such as District branches of
UNFA represent a wider range of growers, but a still very limited proportion of all farmers. Even where
farmer groups do exist, their capacity to carry out participatory planning, to administer funds, and to
contract services is minimal. Therefore, these capacities will have to be developed under NAADS.
Farmers' capacity building needs will be identified through a participatory planning process and will be
met and financed through the contracts. NAADS support for capacity building will aim to empower poor
farmers, especially women farmers and other vulnerable groups, to innovate, use appropriate
technologies, organize themselves to demand agricultural advisory and other services, and to monitor and
evaluate their own performance and that of the service providers. In this, farmers groups or associations
that already exist, and new groups-- based on needs and interest assessments will be brought together and
supported
The orientation program will aim at developing farmer institutional competencies in four main areas. The
first is the definition and appreciation of the NAADS principles, procedures andconditionalities, and
which tendering, contracting and reporting systems will be involved. The second is in the planning,
monitoring and evaluation processes, including needs assessment, gender and poverty issues. The third
category concerns group dynamics, and the instilling of specific skills related to group activities. Finally,
in areas of multi-stakeholder dynamics where farmers, both male and female, meet other stakeholders,
such as input suppliers, traders, credit suppliers and service providers, to negotiate and learn about prices,
quality standards and other relevant issues.
Institutional arrangements for farmer participation will be rooted in Village level farmer groups that will
form the building blocks for a hierarchy of federated Farmer Fora at Sub-county level. These Farmer
Fora will eventually be replicated at District and National level. Farmers groups or associations that
already exist, and new groups-- based on needs and interest assessments will be brought together and
supported. NAADS will spearhead group and Forum formation, working alongside current efforts by
community development and extension staff,NGOs and those national level farmers' representative
organizations that are able and prepared to respond to grass roots farmer demand on a wider scale. Over
the course of time, NAADS will, with the discernment of participants, seek to build smaller and new
groups into larger institutions with grassroots contact. This will represent the range of interests of their
members, but have the critical mass needed to form Farmer Forums at the Sub-county and eventually at
the District and National levels.
- 28 -



To be able to receive public funding under NAADS with which to contract advisory services, farmer
organizations will eventually have to be legally registered. In the interim period, however, groups and
organizations will be able to qualify by engaging in an acceptable, temporary but formal relationship with
legitimate proxies, such as a Sub-county Council, administration or official committee that can represent
their interests and obligations.
Where appropriate, in response to farmer needs and aspirations, a network of link farmers will be
formed, selected for their innovative practices and progressive outlook and by endorsement of the
community for ability to communicate with, assist, train and enthuse others. Their major role is in training
of trainers to spread advisory messages and as providers of sites and inputs for the demonstration of new
practices and technologies. Where they are to be used, the costs, implications and consequences of their
involvement, including the provision of incentives, preferably non-monetary, incentives will be spelt out,
understood by all participants, and reflected in the advisory services plan. Where approved activities
become of crucial importance, they may be considered by NAADS for funding assistance as part of the
service contracting mechanism. Link farmers may also be used as facilitators of farmers and farmer group
activities.
To foster attainment of the service delivery outcome, farmers, their groups and Fora, will take on a
number of important functions. In the short term, these will include:
setting up adequate organizational and administrative arrangements for the group to manage its
affairs and finances to ensure viability and credibility for registration;
inculcating group participatory planning processes that view agriculture as a business, identify
needs and priorities, and formulate plans and budgets for the group; and
demanding, contracting, managing and monitoring farm advisory services, and devising methods of
contribution to cost sharing and recovery to make them sustainable.
In the longer term, and with suitable learning and experience, roles will embrace:
mobilization and management of their own and external financial resources, developing proposals
and plans to solicit funding support, and inculcating savings, cost sharing and recovery schemes
related to their production activities;
acquiring ability to aggregate summary plans to Sub-county and District levels;
acquiring the requisite assistance from their representatives or service providers to perfect the
participatory and collaborative learning methodologies that are entailed;
assessment of research and technology development needs, and participation in generation,
adaptation, development and dissemination;
*    taking responsibility for performance assessment and information feed-back, M&E
participating in improved systems of information and communications; farming education and
contributing to policy and own institutional development.
In farmer institutional building, roles are spelt out among the key institutions involved. At the sub-county,
their roles will include facilitation of development and strengthening of farmer organizations. While roles
of the district will include facilitation of development and strengthening of district wide farmer
organizations, and assessing training needs for sub-county and district staff, and to commission approved
trainers to carry out training and development in priority areas. At national level, their roles will be to
identify and approve trainers for institutional strengthening and capacity building at sub-county and
district level.
Participatory Planning
Under NAADS, farmers will participate the planning, evaluation and contracting processes, as well as in
the identification of their information needs. The key institutions through which they will participate in
these processes will be the Farmer Gourps and Farmer Fora.
- 29 -



In planning, farmers will identify own needs and priorities and, through the sub-county farmers' fora,
formulate their own plans and budgets. In addition, farmers will diagnose natural resource issues and
incorporate these into their plans. Since agricultural development agenda is in the context of agriculture as
a business, at all levels farmers' own generated needs and priorities will reflect this. Participatory and
collaborative learning methodologies will underpin the mechanisms for needs identification, priority
setting, and activity planning. It will also use group discussions (PRA led) and consensus building
approaches. While these methodologies have not been perfected for the diverse farmer conditions
prevailing in Uganda, many approaches are being piloted, most notably byNGOs. An inventory and
assessment of the methods on the ground will be made, and based on this, appropriate methods will be
piloted in the transitional period. The aggregation of needs, priorities and plans will be undertaken at
district and national levels. Technical support to sub-counties will be provided by the districts on strategy
formulation, needs assessment and planning. While preparation and distribution of guidelines on needs
assessment and planning will be undertaken at national level.
The planning process will capture the disparate voices of the poor, women and men, through special
mechanisms i.e.; setting in house gender responsive targets and strategies for advisory services to male
and female farmers, groups, as well as to input supplies; conducting gender analysis of farming systems
and using participatory methods in determining needs and priorities of poor farmers - and assisting
resource poor articulate their needs; including rural women in planning meetings to prioritize their own
advisory needs; setting targets for both male and female resource poor in every village.
Farm Advisory Service Contracting
For greater effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability in advisory services, and consistent with the
governments policy of deepening Decentralisation, advisors will be contracted at the sub-county. During
the period in which public funds will be used for paying for service delivery, farmers will have
commensurate roles and responsibilities in contracting services that they need. This will allow farmers to
determine, contribute to, and demand the services they require. The sub-county, through its participation
in the Farmers' Forum, and by virtue of its presence in the field, will collaborate with farmers in
managment and supervision of the contracted advisory services. The district, in turn, will advise and
support sub-counties in the supervision of contracts, while the guidelines on contracting procedures will
be prepared / distributed at national level. Various mechanisms will be used to empower and enhance
farmers roles in demanding services, these will include; voucher system, user contribution, collective
bargaining, contracting arrangement as co-signatories etc.
In the contracting arrangements, the poor male and female farmers will be specifically targeted through;
supporting the development of gender sensitive procedures and guidelines for contracting services;
moving from individual to group advice so as to increase number and proportion of women clients; pilot
use of the voucher system for poverty reduction; contracting of advisor to incorporate proposals that
reflect poverty/gender analysis
Information and Communications
Information and communication will be supported as a tool in the commercialization process. Specifically
it will be used in providing market information and identify market opportunities. It will also be used as a
backup to advisory services to increase farmer access to useful data, knowledge and technology. The
main activities involved will include; identifying information needs and sources; testing and developing
appropriate information and communication methodologies; managing the packaging and re-packaging
of information into a range of formats; piloting use of low cost technologies in information dissemination;
co-ordinating information dissemination with other stakeholders; identifying training and capacity-
building needs, and; monitoring and evaluating information impacts and knowledge outcomes. At farmer
and sub-county level, information approaches may involve exchange visits, narrating of experiences,
group evaluation of results using media and methods of their choice, and communication training for
advisers and link farmers. Where justified, contracts for the production and distribution of
communication materials and information products and generation of local content and databases may be
tendered; and the piloting of use of low-cost technologies by advisers supported.
- 30 -



Targeting
Targeting will be undertaken through gender and poverty responsive information and communication
systems, specifically through; identification, production and promotion of simple and practical gender-
responsive information and communication packages for service delivery; informal social interaction at
meetings to strengthen attendance by poor women and men; targeted announcements in occasional
settings (churches, mosques, ceremonial etc.). Information plans should reflect output of participatory
planning and gender analysis, and application of gender responsive communication strategies.
Training Events
Events ranging from field visits and field days to classroom setting training would be provided under the
program in order to make new technological and management developments accessible to farm advisors
and to farmers. These events would be arranged on a demand driven basis by staff at the District level.
Such events would be procured on a contractual basis - whether from agricultural researchers,
universities, private sector, NGOs, or other sources of expertise.
Project Component 2 - US$7.00 million
Technology Development and Linkages with Markets
This component would foster linkages among farmers, advisers, and researchers and between farmers and
markets by providing men and women farmers access to funds to contract researchers to work with them
in their fields on technology and market development and adaptation. In T & D the following areas will
be supported; On-Farm Technology Development and Market Linkage Development, and;
District/National Priority Projects.
On-Farm Technology Development and Market Linkage Development
To ensure the relevance and applicability of technology development efforts, farmer involvement and
participation in all key aspects of technology generation and development is critical. The NAADS will
make funds available for farmers and local government to use to contract the services of researchers and
others with technical knowledge. This will attract technology development activities into practical and
local settings in farmers' fields.
Since agricultural transformation advocates for farming as a business, resources will be provided to
identify market opportunities, priorities and constraints, and promoting the development of technologies
that address identified needs. It will also address the economics of farm management, and the use of
agricultural markets to help farmers test and adapt promising technologies and/or exploit new production
and marketing opportunities, and resolve specific technical or marketing problems. NAADS will increase
access to profitable and productivity enhancing technologies for farmers through greater linkages with
markets and researchers. Natural resource (NR) concerns will be incorporated through participatory
diagnosis of problems and incorporation of sustainable NR use in technological packages.
Mechanisms for gender and poverty targeting in all processes of T & D will be applied and will include:
dis-aggregation of technology needs and priorities according to gender and poverty levels at district, sub-
county and community levels; resource allocation focusing on technologies with high potential for
poverty alleviation; designing special programs for poor and disadvantaged groups; providing
differentials in cost recovery arrangements for the poor women and men; developing deliberate programs
to involve the gender and poor in technology testing, demonstration and monitoring and evaluation
processes.
- 31 -



For purposes of widening the participation of farmers and to build demand for technologies, there will be
effective interfaces between farmer groups, their advisers, and the providers of technology, and special
funding mechanisms provided for availing technologies at farmer level. Specific measures to cultivate
stronger linkages, increase research output effectiveness and enhance fanner influence will include:
application of a multi-disciplinary farming systems approach to cover the range and complexity of needs
and constraints; initiating and involving farmers in needs identification, priority setting and planning
process at the sub-county; involvement of researchers in diagnostic surveys where needs, priorities and
constraints have been identified; zonal priority setting, planning, monitoring and evaluation;
establishment of farmer owned field sites (technology development sites, "TDS") within easy reach of
farmers for information exchange, training and orientation, on-farm testing of technologies and
demonstrations; assigning responsibilities for linkage to the Adaptive Research Support Staff (ADESS) to
co-ordinate and collaborate with researchers at district and sub-county level; allocation of staff time and
funds to procure needed priority technologies at district and sub-county levels; training of researchers,
advisers and farmers in new approaches and techniques; and sound farmer based M & E of R & D
outcomes. Methodologies, with researcher input, will be tested and developed for effective approaches in
technology development and dissemination.
The Technology Development Sites (TDS) will be community level focal points for technology transfer
and dissemination at sub-counties. They will also be points for technology evaluation - which may be
used as benchmark sites by researchers, advisors and farmers. Examples of TDSs include model farms,
on-farm demonstration sites, training sites, information and communication sites, and individual-owned
or collective technology multiplication sites. As the farmer needs grow, these sites may gradually
become consolidated into community technology development and service centers.
To enhance farmers outreaching role in Technology Generation, farmers will; identify priority activities
to be undertaken at TDSs; select, develop and manage the TDSs; identify potential Link Farmers who will
play increasing role as the community's own resource person for day to day TDSs activities; invest in
T&D processes and the manage TDSs, using Technology Development funds and own input. Technical
back-up of the TDSs will be provided by S/county Agricultural Advisory Services who will also monitor
performance. Further back-up to the sub-county will be provided by Adaptive Research Support Staff at
district level and ARDC staff at zonal level.
District/National Strategic Projects
Where identified and needed, sub-county and district will outsource through contracts for T&D.
Contracting of specialists will be supported to explore and address District, regional or countrywide
technology and market linkage development issues as agreed by farmer institutions and the NAADS
Secretariat. Contracts may only be issued to non-core district public staff. In contracting, cost-
sharing/recovery will be advocated for, so that farmer institutions, sub-counties and districts play decisive
role in purchasing and influencing research. National and District pooling of contracts for research will
be encouraged to take advantage of economy of scale.
Project Component 3 - USS 1.50 million
Quality Assurance - Regulations and Technical Auditing of Service Providers
Under this component, the NAADS Board and Secretariat, in conjunction with MAAIF, would set
standards and provide a regulatory framework for service providers, by setting and enforcing standards
for qualification and performance, and developing a model contract. Specific activities to be funded
include; Standard Setting and Regulation of Service Providers; Technical Auditing of Service
Providers
Standard Setting and Regulation of Service Providers
As a first step, an inventory and assessment of service provider capacity at national, District and Sub-
county levels will be conducted. Quality assurance standards for service delivery will be developed for all
categories of contracts, thereafter approaches, methodologies and tools will developed for measuring
standards and quality of services. This will be an important and critical incipient activity for NAADS.
Continuous testing and refinement of methodologies will be undertaken to evolve an all-embracing
approach to quality assurance.
- 32 -



The key sub-county institution for performance assessment will comprise of the farmer groupings,fora
and sub-county administration. The sub-county will supervise contracts and compile and act on
monitoring data, it will also act as the quality certification points. The role of the district will be to
conduct routine audits of the standards of service providers and to maintain register of approved service
providers within the district. At national level, standards and regulations will be developed and issued for
service providers as well as developing a registration scheme for approved service providers to be used at
the sub-county and district levels. Formation of professional association for service providers will be
encouraged for self regulation and standards.
Technical Auditing of Service Providers
As fundamentals in quality assurance, performance assessment and audit are cardinal. In this, the
recipient of the services - the farmers, will play pivotal role in setting own criteria for quality assurance
and in providing critical information for performance assessment. Farmers will be the primary source of
data needed in monitoring and evaluation of activities at all levels - including their own. They will also -
take an active responsibility in information feed-back. To undertake their responsibilities, farmers will use
the following approaches and mechanisms; discussion groups, exchange of experiences, farmers' field
days, recording experiences and outcomes, exposure and display of information etc.
In assuring quality of advice and information, poverty and gender criteria will be set and incorporated,
and monitoring and evaluation standards based on the set criteria. Other areas to be embodied in quality
assurance will include commercialization agenda as reflected in identification of opportunities, priority
setting and enhancing business skills. It will also include natural resource criteria.
Project Component 4 - US$4.80 million
Private Sector Institutional Development
The transformation of the advisory system will invoke the need for new basic competencies by advisors
for implementation. This is specifically relevant under the NAADS as privatization of public sector
extension workers is expected. To improve the employment prospects, NAADS will provide limited
funding on a competitive basis for retraining and upgrading. NAADS will only finance training for
service providers, in well-defined area, and training will be financed as far as possible on a cost-sharing
basis.
This component would establish a program to assist firms and other institutions to become eligible to be
contracted to provide services under the NAADS Program. Specific activities to be funded include;Local
Service Provider Development; National Representative Organizations/Institutions Support; and
Retraining/Retrenchment of Public Extension Staff.
Local Service Provider Development
As a first step, NAADS will support orientation and capacity building of service providers and other
relevant stakeholders in order to facilitate satisfactory start-up, expansion and financing of advisory
services. Under the NAADS, four main competencies will be needed by service providers. The first is
understanding and appreciation of NAADS approach and how it relates to the PMA, its principles and
procedures (tendering, contracting and reporting processes). The second area is participatory planning,
monitoring and evaluation processes, including participatory needs assessment, gender and poverty
analysis. The third is group formation, organization and facilitation skills, and the methodologies in
imparting of specific skills. Training will thus focused on the relevant areas, which will include:
training in the modalities of NAADS, such as tendering, contracting and reporting;
bridging training for public sector extension staff whose jobs will be contracted out, to facilitate
their transition to the private sector;
skills development in farm business management and commercial firming
natural resource management issues
public good issues defined at the national level by the NAADS and approved by the Board; and
updating in new and emerging concepts and innovations relevant to the Program.
Applications for assistance will be sponsored by a prospective employer or supported by a farmer forum.
- 33 -



Responsibilities at various levels are follows; - At sub-county the identification of apparent shortcomings
in technical or operational capacity of service providers (so that these can be addressed in future training)
will be undertaken and reported to the District. At district level, the identification and assessment of the
capacity of all potential service providers will be conducted as well as the identification of priority
training needs of private sector providers. The commissioning of training to meet identified needs will
also be conducted at district level. At national level, preparation and issuing of guidelines for financing of
training for private sector providers as well as the identification of approved trainers / training institutions
for training of private sector providers under NAADS will undertaken. The reparation / issuing of
guidelines on voluntary severance of staff wanting to move into private sectors as independent advisers
will also be undertaken at national level.
National Representative Organizations/Institutions Support
It is recognized that several Organizations/Institutions exist, or will be formed in due course, and whose
services or expertise NAADS will need. These institutions may be in service-related area, research,
training, or may be community based institutions, CBOs, NGOs etc. NAADS will support these
institutions through facilitation of preliminary consultations; establishment of linkage mechanisms;
limited marketing cost subsidy.
Retraining/Retrenchment of Public Extension Staff
The current policy environment and direction dictates that Government devolve itself from service
delivery and that Government employees gradually shift to contract terms. The PMA sets the principles,
and specifies the roles of the public and private sector, it emphasizes that for better efficiency government
will; devolve itself from service delivery, including advisory services; further deepen the decentralization
process in service delivery; empower communities to make decisions in activities that affect them.
The rationale of in the NAADS approach in contracting is rooted in the above and aims at; better
efficiency & effectiveness, sustainability and ownership of service delivery; enhancing and deepen the
Decentralisation process, and; empowering farming communities to partake in activities that affect them.
The Letter of Development Policy (in its' Paragraph 49) provides assurance that staffing of the field
extension services will be made consistent with the PMA and NAADS principles. It is understood that
the principles referred to include those of: (a) contracting out field extension services and technical
backstopping; and (b) allowing for a plurality of providers of extension services. As laid out in the
GOU's program proposal, it has been agreed that NAADS will be the instrument through which the GOU
will restructure its field extension services from a public delivery system to a publicly-funded private
delivery system. In connection with this, the GOU will carry out a review of the recruitment program of
public field level agricultural extensionists and an overall functional analysis of the local governments,
especially for the production sector, so as to establish the functional responsibilities of the local
government vis-a-vis the agricultural sector. While a core public sector staff will continue to have a role
in the system at National and District levels, the provision of field extension services will be privatized.
Thus, a limited number of core staff positions will continue under NAADS (mainly at the District level),
while field level positions would be contracted out. It is understood that some field staff may be
reassigned while some would be retired and others would be given separation packages - many of these
will be contracted under the new arrangements and NAADS would provide (re)training to help them
prepare for this.
- 34 -



Project Component 5 - US$18.30 million
Program Management and Monitoring
This component will establish and support institutional entities at both the National and District levels of
Government, which shall co-ordinate and administer the Program. At National level, this will include
establishment and maintenance of the NAADS Board and Secretariat. At Local Government levels,
district and sub-county NAADS co-ordinators will be supported to facilitate bottom-up planning process
of the program, liaise with other stakeholders to provide consultation and dialogue. It will support the
facilitation, co-ordination, financial management and reporting, financial auditing of the programs
financial flows, and oversight of service contracts. In addition, a Management Information System will
be established for monitoring the program, as well as baseline surveys and data gathering procedures for
impact evaluation. Specific activities to be funded include;NAADS Board and Secretariat; planning -
design, institution, oversight and assistance with the planning processes; Training and Capacity
Building for NAADS' Staff; Management Information System and Impact Evaluation.
NAADS Board and Secretariat
The NAADS Board will be constituted and charged with advising and giving guidance on program
policy and strategy issues and facilitating, supervising and supporting the NAADS Secretariat. The
NAADS Secretariat will form the program management. Funds will be provided for Board activities and
allowances; management appointments/remuneration and allowances; financial management and other
systems establishment and operation; national information and communication; policy analysis and
formulation; stakeholder consultations; legal affairs; and premises, transport, equipment, utilities, and
consumables.
Planning
Support will also be provided in planning process nationally. This will involve the design, institution,
oversight and assistance with the planning processes from grassroots, up to Sub-county and District level;
for farmer institutions and Forums, including guidance on proposal preparation and submission; and
nationally.
Training and Capacity Building for NAADS' Staff
Training events and formal educational opportunities would be made available for NAADS staff. This
would be in technical agricultural areas as well as in administrative, managerial, economic, social,
financial, and other areas. These would be arranged for and funded primarily from the national level - by
the NAADS Secretariat - but also from the District level.
Management Information System and Impact Evaluation
Resource management capacity in various levels is weak. To strengthen the efficiency of the institutions,
this will necessitate the development/strengthening the systems or institutions directly relating to these
areas. The major areas are operational systems, Management Information System (MIS), Monitoring and
Evaluation systems and Administration and management skills.
Most districts lack MIS, and thus there is a general lack of information on district resources and their
utilization. The establishment of a computerized management information system will be a top priority
for the development of management systems as they are critical tools for planning and evaluation. To
enhance management skills, at all levels, managers will receive practical training in the results-oriented
advisory services management. A computerized management information systems (MIS) for advisory
services program management will, with time, be fully in place and operational
One major area to be supported will be results oriented performance. To be able to measure performance
and attainment of outputs, there will be need for systems and institutions for continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of performance of programs and activities. To bring
consistency and to integrate the planning, monitoring and evaluation process at all levels (sub-county and
districts), planning, monitoring and evaluation manuals will be developed and operationalized. NAADS
will also support baseline, benchmark and program phase completion surveys, and periodic case studies;
annual mid-term reviews; and evaluation -- local, internal and external will be conducted.
- 35 -



The farmers will be the primary source of data needed for agricultural, monitoring and evaluation of
activities at all levels - including their own. Their record keeping and monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms will be developed and piloted using participatory and collaborative learning approaches. The
sub-county will implement and monitor extension plan, while the district will provide technical support to
sub-counties on monitoring and evaluation and compile district level monitoring data. Apart from
conducting countrywide M&E, guidelines for M&E will be provided at national level.
In M&E processes, targeting the poor - women and men, will be accomplished by; ensuring that, at all
levels, M & E system captures poverty and gender dis-aggregated data for use in planning; service
providers' evaluations, and renewal of contracts; ensuring appropriate feedback to other sectoral services;
piloting field based participatory M & E activities for gender and poverty, and; developing gender and
poverty profiles linked to M & E activities.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Local       Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                     US $million  US $million  US $million
Component 1 - Advisory and Information Services to Farmers     63.65          5.14        68.79
Component 2 - Technology Development and Linkages with          5.83          0.50          6.33
Markets
Component 3 - Quality Assurance - Regulations and Technical     1.13          0.20          1.33
Auditing of Service Providers
Component 4 - Private Sector Institutional Development          4.18          0.20          4.38
Component 5 - Program Management and Monitoring.                8.46          8.00         16.46
Total Baseline Cost                                            83.25         14.04         97.29
Physical Contingencies                                         4.16          0.70          4.86
Price Contingencies'                                           5.35          0.41          5.76
Total Project Costs                  92.76         15.15        107.91
Total Financing Required                   92.76          15.15        107.91
Local       Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Category                    US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods: Equipment and Vehicles                                    0.58           3.59          4.17
Consultant Services and Training                                86.63           8.30         94.93
Other                                                            5.55           3.26          8.81
0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs         92.76          15.15        107.91
Total Financing Required          92.76          15.15        107.91
Program Cost    The NAADS program cost is estimated at US$ 107.91 million
including physical and price contingencies of about US$ 10.62 million. Cost estimates
are based on 2000 prices. A physical contingency of 5 percent is included for all
items. Price contingencies are included at 5 per cent per year for domestic prices, and
at 2.5, 2.6, 2.4, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 and 2.5 per cent respectively from 2001 to 2007 for
foreign prices. Program cost estimates for the seven years of phase 1 of the
programme are summarized in the above table. The first two years of the programme
are for trail blazing activities. Detailed program costing tables are included in a
separate working paper. Program fund disbursement will be predominantly by sub-
county government which will account for approximately 77 per cent, with district
and national level disbursement accounting for 11 and 12 per cent respectively.
1 Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 107.92 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
41.7% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 37 -



Annex 4
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Economic Analysis
1. Background
The NAADS program objective is to improve the productivity and livelihoods of Ugandan
farmers through the establishment of a relevant and responsive contract based agricultural
advisory service. The key assumptions that underline the NAADS program and strategy
are that it will help farmers to achieve increases in productivity while increasingly shifting
much of their production away from low value staples to higher value commodities.
Further NAADS will strengthen research-extension linkages and it is planned that in
parallel with the NAADS program there will be other programs under the Government of
Uganda (GOU) Plan for Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) that will address other key
farmer constraints involving rural infrastructure, access to credit and inputs.
2. Assessment Methodology
2.1    Methodology
The economic analysis of the NAADS program is based on a two part approach:
2.1.1   Sector Program Approach.
A sector program approach is used to assess the minimum required incremental output in
terms of growth in agricultural GDP for the program to generate an economic internal rate
of return (EIRR) of 12 per cent. This rate of return is treated as the break-even rate. The
feasibility of generating this incremental production is checked against the forecast
production increase from the economic analysis undertaken at the regional level.
The methodology involves an ex-ante analysis of the incremental cost and benefits at the
program level, and ex-post will require an econometric analysis on actual rates of return
from the program.
The GDP is used as a proxy, with the change in GDP being used to represent aggregate net
farm income generated from the NAADS investment. For this assumption to be valid the
impact of other changes on the agricultural GDP must be netted out. These other changes
include changes in GDP from both changes in price and quantity outputs, level of
investment and other exogenous factors.
Expressed in a functional form, the relationship is:
Aggregate Farm Income (Y = f (PA, I, X, P)
Where:
Y is aggregate net farm income
PA is a vector of the NAADS investment program, with the program cost used as a
measure of input.
I is a vector of private investment in agriculture, which includes land, labor, capital, and
purchased inputs.
X is a vector of control variables for exogenous factors such as weather and disease which
impact on agricultural production and income.
P is a vector of input and output prices.
- 38 -



In undertaking the ex-ante analysis all variables except NAADS are held constant which
means that any change in net aggregate farm income will be equal to the change in the
agricultural GDP. Therefore the minimum growth required for the NAADS investment to
be viable can be deternined in terms of growth in agricultural GDP. On this basis the
present value of the incremental GDP must be greater than or equal to the present value of
the incremental NAADS investment cost over the period examined. The key assumptions
are:
* NAADS Program Incremental Cost. This is the difference between the total NAADS
investment cost and the current level of investment in these areas which is required to
maintain the existing level of the agricultural GDP. The existing level of expenditure is
used for the base year.
* All Other Inputs and Factors are held constant, so any change in GDP is generated
from changes in NAADS investment.
* With and Without NAADS Benefit Streams. In the analysis it is assumed that the
NAADS investment will impact on GDP growth for twenty years. The current level of
the GDP is used for the base year.
* Discount Rate A discount rate of 12 per cent was used to calculate the net present value
of costs and benefits.
2.1.2   Farm Household and Enterprise Level Productivity.
The feasibility of achieving the incremental production and increased farm household
returns is assessed using indicative enterprise budgets and farm household returns based on
regional farming system models, which incorporate the improved technologies and
practices extended by the NAADS Program. The estimates and regional models are based
on data in the Report on Economics of Crop and Livestock 1998/99, Agricultural Policy
Secretariat (to be published late 2000).
As the regional farm budgets are likely to mask differences between different types of farm
household, budgets have been prepared based on the regional models for existing
subsistence-unimproved, improved subsistence with NAADS, semi-commercial (market
oriented) and commercial farmers.
2.1.3   Farm Enterprise Economic Analysis
A second method using traditional economic analysis techniques is undertaken to assess the
economic return from the NAADS program. The analysis has focused on crop enterprises,
as these account for 74 per cent of GDP (Appendix 1, Table 4). Three crop enterprises
(maize, matoke and beans) which account for 59 per cent of total crop area are used in the
analysis. Returns from existing and improved practices are detailed in Appendix 1, Tables
11-14 and summarized in Appendix 1, Table 19. The resulting EIRR is indicative, and is
likely to be a conservative estimate as it does not include other smaller crop enterprises,
higher value crop or livestock which are likely to generate further benefits. Sensitivity
analysis is undertaken.
For farm households adopting improved technologies it is estimated that these farmers will
adopt improved technologies on 33 per cent of their crop area, with the crop enterprise
undertaken being in proportion to that currently grown. In the economic analysis:
All labor inputs (family and hired) are included.
Economic prices are used for agricultural outputs and inputs.
Rural labor is competitive, with laborcosted at approximately 1250 UShillings.
The project economic analysis is undertaken for a period of twenty years.
- 39 -



3. NAADS Program Impact
3.1    Situation without NAADS
Without NAADS, it is assumed that the existing agricultural system would continue to
operate at the district level with GOU and development partner support at current levels.
The existing system at district level is characterized with very limited operating funds and
low levels of farmer contact. The GOU and development partners have indicated that
currently approximately 5 per cent of farmers have contact with agricultural field extension
works (GOU Reports and World Bank Uganda Agricultural Extension Project
Implementation Completion Report (2000)).
In the analysis of the without NAADS, the GDP and returns are held constant at current
levels (Year 2000), and the with NAADS incremental returns represent the incremental
level of production achieved due to the NAADS interventions in terms of incremental
levels of farmer contact and adoption of improved practices.
Agricultural Extension Institutional Expenditure for agricultural extension without
NAADS are detailed in Appendix 1, Table 2.
Institutional expenditure in the agriculture sector is funded from a range of sources: the
core government budget at national and local levels, which is used for recurrent cost
expenditure, from the capital budget; and from a range of development partners
undertaking specific projects, that are often implemented in defined geographic areas. This
range of funding sources makes accurate estimation of total expenditure difficult. The
Public Expenditure Review prepared for the donor budget consultation in May 2000
indicated that agricultural sector funding for 2000/01 will total approximately 79.1 billion
Ushillings. Of this amount development partners were providing approximately 47 billion
Ushillings or 59 per cent of the total. Poverty alleviation funds of 4.4 billionUshillings to
be used for employment of sub-county graduate agricultural extension staff were not
included in the development partners total, when this is added development partners
account for approximately 65 per cent of the total.
Of the total allocation for the agriculture sector it is estimated (Medium Term Expenditure
Framework 1999/2000-2002/03) that agricultural extension accounts for 17.9 billion
Ushillings in 2000/01. This level of expenditure is similar to that in the 1998/99 budget
papers where it totaled 17.5 billion Ushillings, and the development partners provided
approximately 50 per cent of the amount. This total does not include district government
expenditure on agricultural extension services paid out of unconditional grants to the
district. It is estimated that the recurrent wage cost met from this grant will be 5.1 billion
Ushillings in 2000/01. Very little of these grant funds are available or used for non wage
operating costs.
In the analysis (refer Appendix 1, Table 2) it is assumed that development partner project
expenditure will continue at 2002/03 levels over the duration of the program. Further it is
assumed that poverty alleviation funding (or an equivalent fund from another source) will
continue to operate at existing levels over the period of the program, and that total
agricultural extension will remain at 26.7 billion Ushillings from 2002/03.
3.2    With NAADS
The level of institutional expenditure with NAADS will involve a reduction in
development partner support for non-NAADS agricultural extension activities, as funding
is transferred to NAADS activities. The assumption is that it will phase out over five years
from year 3. Further the GOU is also committed to integrating a number of existing
agricultural extension activities into NAADS, which will reduce the level of non-NAADS
expenditure. It is assumed that non-NAADS GOU expenditure will decrease by 50 per cent
from year three to year seven of Phase 1.
- 40 -



With NAADS there will be a reduction in direct recurrent expenditure on agricultural
extension by districts, which are currently paid for out of their unconditional grant funds.
This will occur as staff numbers will be reduced and while this will involve a severance
and retrenchment cost that will be funded by donors, it will also result in reduced wage
expenditure. Estimates of existing district extension staff wage costs, wage cost savings
and an indicative estimate of retrenchment costs are provided in Appendix 1, Tables 3A
and 3B.
3.2.1   NAADS Phasing
The NAADS program will involve five phases over twenty five years. NAADS Phase I
program will run for seven years. The first two years of the program will be a trail blazing
stage, with the program to be launched in an initial six districts and twelve sub-counties. It
is anticipated that this level of coverage will be doubled within one year.
An indicative NAADS phasing of activities in districts and sub-counties is outlined in
Table 1. Expansion of program activities will be determined by implementation
effectiveness and performance.
Table 1: NAADS Phasing of Districts and Sub-counties
Total No. of Districts is 45    Yrl Yr2 Yr3 Yr4 Yr5 Yr6    Yr 7
No. of Districts inNAADS        6    14   20   26   34   41          56
Coverage (in terms of sub-counties)  24%  70%  70%  70%  70%  70%   70%
(% of target districts)
3.2.2   NAADS Program Costs
Agricultural Extension Institutional Expenditure with NAADS is summarized in Appendix
1 Table 2. It is based on the assumption that with NAADS the development partner funding
will phase out over seven years, starting in year 3. 1998/99 estimates (GOU Statement to
the Consultative Group Meeting (Dec.1998)) were that development partner funding
accounted for approximately 50 % of extension funding. This percentage allocation is used
as the basis for the reduction in development partner support.
The NAADS expenditure is based on a seven year Phase 1 total program costing of US$
107.92 million, and is assumed to continue post phase I at the year 7 level of expenditure.
While district unconditional grant funds are allocated to meet staff agricultural extension
wage costs, generally in nearly all districts very little or none is allocated for non wage
operating costs. The incremental with NAADS agricultural extension expenditure is
outlined in Appendix 1 Table 2 and indicates that by year 5 the incremental funding will
total approximately 28.10 billion Ushillings.
3.2.3   Farmer Awareness and Adoption of Technologies
The NAADS interventions will improve farmer awareness and adoption of crop and
livestock practices and technologies. This will involve both basic and more complex
production practices. The NAADS strategy will operate at two levels: involving increases
in productivity, and shifting production from low value staples to higher value
commodities. NAADS will strengthen research-extension linkages and it is anticipated that
in parallel with the NAADS program there will be other programs under the GOU Plan for
Modernization of Agriculture that will address other key farmer constraints involving rural
infrastructure, access to credit and inputs.
- 41 -



The NAADS program target is that extension service providers will contact directly and
indirectly 40 per cent of farm households in target sub-counties in NAADS districts
(approximately 70 per cent of sub-counties per district), and this will result in 50 per cent
of those contacted farm households adopting improved practices. Overall it will mean
approximately 14 per cent of farm households in target districts will adopt improved
technologies and practices.
In the farm enterprise based economic analysis the assumption is that for farmers adopting
improved practices and technologies which is approximately 15 per cent of farm
households in target districts and sub-counties, that these households will adopt the
improved practices on 33 per cent of the crop land. This will involve 4.2 per cent of crop
land in target districts.
4. Agricultural Production
4.1    National Agricultural Production
The agricultural GDP has increased over the period (1992-1998). The agricultural sector
GDP has increased in real terms by 26 per cent, with an average annual real increase of 4
per cent over this period. The agricultural sector GDP figures are detailed in Appendix 1,
Table 4. At an aggregate level in 1999 crop enterprises accounted for approximately 74 per
cent of agricultural GDP and livestock enterprises 18 per cent. Based on the agricultural
production data (refer Appendix 1, Tables 5 to 7) yields have remained relatively constant
over the period with the production increases being from increases in the crop area.
Productivity has not increased, being affected by: lack of modem technology inputs;
availability and access to improved varieties; low fertilizer use and the increase in land use
intensity resulting in reductions in soil fertility. The NAADS program will address a
number of these constraints.
The national agricultural statistical data is generally of poor quality, as the data collection
systems used are non uniform and often fragmentary, and based on estimates and outdated
survey ratios which use 1989 as the base. As greater than 50 per cent of the food sub-sector
output is consumed on-farm, estimating this output is difficult.
Currently agricultural production data is collected by the MAAIF, and the price and market
data is collected by the Department of Statistics. While shortfalls exist in the data, key
agencies such as the World Bank consider that the general trends in the GDP (outlined in
Appendix 1, Table 4) are reliable and consistent with what is occurring. The data shortfalls
do limit the value of disaggregation of data to district and regional level, and limit the
confidence placed on inter-year variation.
5. NAADS Program Benefits
5.1    Sector Analysis
The sector analysis detailed in Appendix 1, Table 1 indicates that for the NAADS planned
level of farmer extension contact (direct and indirect) in target sub-counties of 40 per cent
and an adoption rate for improved practices of 50 per cent with these farmers, that a
productivity increase of slightly less than I per cent per year will be minimum required in
these households for the NAADS program to be economically viable and achieve an EIRR
of 12 per cent. This will result in 14.8 per cent of farm households in target districts
adopting improved practices. This productivity increase equates to an increase in farm
household net returns of about US $7 per year, and for a farmer adopting NAADS practices
in year 1 this would total approximately $US 50 over the seven years of phase 1. This level
of productivity improvement is feasible and in aggregate equates to an increase in
agricultural GDP of 0.4 per cent by year 7.
- 42 -



The levels of adoption used are comparable with some other related agricultural extension
projects. Given the planned demand responsive service delivery approach to be used in
NAADS, performance assessment and monitoring measures to be incorporated, it is
anticipated that a higher adoption rate will result. Other projects reviewed such as the
South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project Implementation Completion Report
(1998) used an adoption rate for improved technologies of 20 per cent after eight years,
while the Agricultural Research and Training Project, Project Appraisal Document (1999)
indicated adoption rates for improved technologies with a number of crops: bananas (25
per cent over 20 years); maize and beans (33 per cent over 10 years); cassava (50 per cent
over 10 years). The estimated level of farmer group contact and rates of adoption are
comparable with those used in other related studies which are summarized in Appendix 1,
Table 8.
Regional Farm Household Models. The regional farm household models (existing and
improved subsistence, market oriented and commercial) are detailed in Appendix 1, Tables
11 to 16 and indicate the incremental crop and livestock enterprise returns from adopting
improved technologies and management practices. The livestock enterprise is based on a
dairy and livestock raising operation, with the initial base being a subsistence farmer
operating with two head of locally bred livestock. The livestock enterprise is generally
standardized across the regional budgets, as livestock data is limited. The key aspects of
the livestock enterprise for the different types of farm households is outlined in Appendix
1, Table 17. The livestock productivity improvements are based on improved practices and
breed improvements for the subsistence, semi-commercial and commercial farm
households.
The farm budgets based on the regional farm budgets indicate that this level of incremental
return is feasible if the households adopt 3 to 4 improved practices during phase 1. For
farm households moving to a more market oriented and commercial operation the
incremental returns will be higher (refer Appendix 1, Table 17). Summarizing key aspects
of these models:
Eastern Region. With the eastern region farm models (Appendix 1, Tables 11 A and B)
the incremental returns for existing subsistence farm enterprises without NAADS and with
NAADS (based on the average area of each crop grown) range from less than US $6 to
over US$ 45 for mixed stand crops, maize/ beans of US$ 21 millet/ sorghum of US$ 24 and
for ground nuts/maize of US$ 15 to the annual crop returns of sweet potato US$ 9 cotton
US$ 6 and cassava US$ 32 and for the livestock enterprise US$ 47 If a farm household
undertook three annual crop improved technologies or an improved livestock enterprise
and crop practices over phase 1 they would increase productivity by at least one per cent
per year, and phase 1 returns would increase by over US$ 50 As indicated in Table 11 A
and B, the farm household would have the opportunity to progress from a subsistence farm
household with NAADS to semi commercial and commercial operation
Central Region. With the central region farm models (Appendix 1, Tables 12 A and B) the
incremental returns for existing subsistence farm enterprises without NAADS and with
NAADS (based on the average area of each crop grown) range from less than US$ 11 to
over US$ 35 for coffee/ matoke US$ 17 and for other mixed stand crops: maize/ beans of
US$ 27 and for ground nuts/maize of US$2 1, to the annual crop returns of Irish potato
US$11, sweet potato US$35, and cassava US$17. For livestock enterprises the incremental
return will be US$23. If a farm household undertook three annual crop improved
technologies or an improved livestock enterprise combined with crop enterprises over
phase 1 they would increase productivity by at least one per cent per year, and phase I
returns would increase by over US$50. As indicated in Table 12 A and B, the farm
household would have the opportunity to progress from a subsistence farm household with
NAADS to semi commercial and commercial operation.
- 43 -



Northern Region. With the northern region farm models (Appendix 1, Tables 14 A and B)
the incremental returns for existing subsistence farm enterprises without NAADS and with
NAADS (based on the average area of each crop grown) range from less than US$3 to over
US$25: for maize/ beans US$17, and for other mixed stand crops: millet/ sorghum of US$2
and for ground nuts/maize of US$9, to the annual crop returns of cotton US$15, rice US$5,
simsim US$9 and cassava US$19. For the improved livestock enterprise the incremental
return will be US$26. If a farm household undertook three annual crop improved
technologies or an improved livestock enterprise combined with improved crop enterprises
over phase I they would increase productivity by at least one per cent per year, and phase I
returns would increase by over US$50. As indicated in Table 14 A and B, the farm
household would have the opportunity to progress from a subsistence farm household with
NAADS to semi commercial and commercial operation.
Western Region. With the western region farm models (Appendix 1, Tables 13 A and B)
the incremental returns for existing subsistence farm enterprises without NAADS and with
NAADS (based on the average area of each crop grown) range from less than US$10 to
over US$90 for coffee/ matoke, and for mixed stand crops: sweet potato/ beans of US$33,
maize/ beans of US$27 and for ground nuts/maize of US$16, to the annual crop returns of
potato US$3, finger millet US$8 and cassava US$9. For the improved livestock enterprise
the incremental return will be US$27. If a farm household undertook four annual crop
improved technologies or an improved livestock enterprise combined with a number of
improved crop enterprises over phase I they would increase productivity by at least one per
cent per year, and phase I returns would increase by over US$50. As indicated in Table 13
A and B, the farm household would have the opportunity to progress from a subsistence
farm household with NAADS to semi commercial and commercial operation
The subsistence regional farm models indicate that with farm households adopting three to
four of the improved crop technologies over phase I they would increase farm household
productivity above 1 per cent per year, and generate incremental returns per household over
phase 1 of over US$50. On this basis NAADS is economically viable.
Semi-commercial (market oriented) and commercial farm households. The regional
farm model analysis indicates that there is an incentive in terms of productivity
improvements and incremental returns for existing subsistence households (with NAADS)
to further develop into semi-commercial farms, and that the incremental return in the four
regions, based on a comparison using the same crop area will range from US$180 to
US$320 if a household adopted improved practices in all enterprises (refer Table 17).
Further, productivity and incremental returns will be increased should the semi-commercial
farms develop into commercial operations, with incremental returns for the four regions
ranging from US$430 to US$680 if improved practices are adopted in all enterprises (refer
Table 17).
The development of the semi-commercial and commercial farm households is based on
increased enterprise diversification and intensification, with increased areas of higher value
crops: cotton; simsim; rice; Irish potatoes; coffee/matoke; beans/ maize; groundnuts and
adoption of improved livestock practices, and increased farm size.
Labor Productivity. The incremental returns per labor day indicate that farm households
have an incentive to participate and adopt improved practices, and that the incremental
return per person day ranges from US$ 2.90 to US$15.70 depending on the farming
system. These incremental labor returns are based on the western region model labor
requirements (family and hired) which are outlined in Appendix 1, Table 18, and the
incremental returns for the different farm models (Appendix 1, Table 17) which are
adjusted such that labor cost (family and hired) is not included in the costs, so the
incremental return for the additional labor input is the gross return.
- 44 -



Sensitivity Analysis. The sensitivity analysis undertaken is detailed in Table 2 and
indicates that any reduction in extension cover (in target districts) or in farmers adoption
rate will reduce the number of farm households benefiting from NAADS and necessitate
higher levels of annual farm household productivity increase.
Table 2: Annual Productivity Improvement, Incremental GDP Required to achieve
an EIRR of 12 % (per adopting farm household in current year 2000 US$) and % of
participating farm households(HHs) in target districts.
Extension Cover
(in target
districts) (%)
Program
Adoption Rate
%                                   30                40
40                                  1.3%               1.15%
(US$10 per year)  (US$8.8 per year)
8.3% farm HHs     12.4 % farm HHs
50                                  1.05%             0.93%
(US$8 per year)   (US$7.1 per year)
10.4 % farm HHs   15.5 % farm HHs
60                                  0.9%              0.8%
(US$7 per year)   (US$6.1 per year)
12.4 % farm HHs   18.6 % farm HHs
5.2    Farm Enterprise Economic Analysis
The farm enterprise economic analysis is based on NAADS adopting farmers (by year 7
with 15.8 per cent of farmers in NAADS target districts which is equivalent to 14 per cent
of the total number of farmers) applying improved technologies to three crop enterprises
(maize, beans and matoke) which account for 55 per cent of the crop area. The improved
practices and technologies will be applied to 33 per cent of the farmers existing crop area.
The analysis is outlined in Appendix 1 Tables 19, with the crop per hectare budgets
detailed in Table 20. The outcome indicates that the NAADS program is economically
viable with an EIRR of 19 per cent and a net present value (NPV) using a 12 per cent
discount rate, of $US 10.21 million. The economic benefit is indicative and is likely to
under-estimate the incremental benefits from NAADS as it does not include other crops
and livestock enterprises.
The economic viability of the program is sensitive to changes in the percentage of farmer
crop area that adopt improved practices (refer Table 3). A 25 per cent reduction in area
(from 33 to 25 per cent of existing crop area) resulting in the EIRR declining to zero per
cent, for a 25 per cent increase in area per farm adopting improved practices (from 33 to 41
per cent) the EIRR increased to 35 per cent.
- 45 -



Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis: Impact of Changing Percentage of Crop Land Adopting
Improved Practices and Technologies.
Farm Household Crop Land (% adopting       25 %               33 %                41%
improved practices)
EIRR (%)                                   0%                 19%                35%
Net Present Value (US$ million)            -16.88             10.21               37.29
(discount rate 12%)
5.3    Cost Recovery
Under the NAADS program it is planned that farm households participating in extension
activities will contribute to the cost of the service provision. The proposed level of
contribution will vary depending on the type of farmer, with subsistence farmers only
making a small percentage contribution, and the market oriented and commercial
contributing a much larger percentage. The incremental economic returns indicate that
subsistence farmers will have the capacity to contribute to the cost of the services.
5.4    Other Benefits
The benefits from the improved human resource skills developed with the program training
and the strengthening of the local institutional capacity have not been assessed
quantitatively. The program training to private extension service providers, extension staff
and subject matter specialists, research staff in technical and management areas will
develop improved skills and potential productivity improvements. The training of village
groups, farmer contact groups and farmer fora at the local level will strengthen local
institutional capacities and empower farmers. Both the human resource skills and
institutional capacity will generate benefits when used in other economic and non-
economic activities.
6. Conclusion
The economic analyses undertaken using a sector program approach and farm enterprise
based analysis indicate that the NAADS progran is economically viable.
The analysis is based on extension contact (direct and indirect) with 40 per cent of farm
households in target sub-counties, and an adoption rate by these contacted households of 50
per cent. This would result in over 15 per cent of farm households in target sub-counties
adopting improved practices and increasing productivity and returns. By year 7 of phase I
this will involve approximately 420000 farm households in 40 districts, with the vast
majority of these beneficiaries being smallholder farmers.
The levels of adoption used in the analysis are comparable with other related agricultural
extension projects in Uganda. Further, given the NAADS demand responsive service
delivery approach, performance assessment and monitoring measures to be established it is
anticipated that higher adoption rates will result.
The sector program approach indicates that a minimum productivity improvement of
slightly less than 1 per cent per year is required per adopting farm household for NAADS
to be economically viable and achieve an EIRR of 12 per cent. This level of productivity
improvement is feasible, and equates to an increase in agricultural GDP of 0.4 per cent by
year 7. For a farm household adopting improved practices in year I it would equate to an
incremental return of approximately US 7 per year. Such levels of return will be achievable
by farm households over Phase I with the adoption of three to four improved practices.
- 46 -



The farm enterprise analysis is based on the over 15 per cent of farmers in target districts
and sub-counties who adopt improved practices, adopting improved crop technologies for
the three main crops (matoke, beans and maize). Further that the improved practices with
the three crops will be undertaken on 33 per cent of their existing crop area. At this level of
adoption the NAADS program is viable, resulting in an EIRR of 19 per cent and a NPV of
US$10.21 million. The NAADS outcome is sensitive to variations in the crop area adopted
for improved practices.
The economic analysis has focused on farm household production, involving farm
diversification and intensification: with improved practices with crop and livestock
enterprises; higher value crops (coffee, cotton, oilseeds) and improved livestock (breeds
and management). While most of the beneficiaries will be smallholder subsistence farmers,
a small percentage will be farmers progressing into semi-commercial (market oriented) and
commercial farm operations.
The farm household returns indicate that typical farm households will have the incentive to
participate in NAADS, and the capacity to contribute to the cost of NAADS advisory services.
- 47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Years Ending
June
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                 1.5        1.0        1.9        2.7        2.8        3.5
Recurrent Costs                   2.2        2.6        8.2       13.2       18.2       21.7
Total Project Costs                3.7        3.6       10.1        15.9      21.0       25.2
Total Financing                    3.7        3.6       10.1       15.9       21.0       25.2
Financing
IBRD/IDA                         1.5        2.0        6.0        8.5       11.0      10.0
Govemment
Central                      0.3        0.3         0.9        1.3        1.7       2.0
Provincial                   0.4        0.4         1.1        1.6       2.1        2.5
Co-financiers                    2.1        1.5        3.9        7.1        9.6      14.7
User Fees/Beneficiaries          0.1        0.1        0.2        0.3        0.4       0.5
Others                           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing          3.7         3.6       10.1       15.9       21.0      25.2
Main assumptions:
The principle assumption is that the scaling-up of NAADS would proceed according to the pace
indicated in Section C.4 of this PAD.
1. Financing Plan
The total programme cost is estimated at US$107.92 million. The programme cost will
be financed by: the GOU through national, district and sub-county funding; donor
support and farmer contributions. NAADS projections are that the minimum financiai
contributions by the participating stakeholders will over the first phase of the program
be: national government 88 per cent (which will include 80 per cent from donors),
district and sub-county government 5 per cent each, and farmer groups 2 per cent. The
funding support to be contributed from each stakeholder is detailed in the financing
plan above. Financing requirements increase in year 3 after the completion of the trail
blazing stage, with national government contributions rising over phase 1 to US$2.2
million in year 7, donors to US$21.96 million, district and sub-county to total US$2.74
million, and farmer groups US$0.55 million.
Several donors have indicated financial commitments to NAADS for periods of one to
seven years, with further commitments confirmed in December, 2000. These
preliminary estimates are summarized in Table 8 and indicate that the level of support
will be adequate for the trail blazing stage, and depending upon the level of program
activity there may be a need to roll over funds into succeeding years. With further
Netherlands and DANIDA assistance beyond year one, and subject to confirmation of
proposed EU and DFID support, the programme will have adequate donor support.
- 48 -



The World Bank will finance US$45 million of the programme, and this funding will be
included in the national government contribution to theprogramme. This accounts for
approximately 42 per cent of the total programme funding. This combined with the
planned IFAD loan of US$17.5 million will mean that the other donors will be
financing US$23.84 million. The NAADS Secretariat will submit to the donors each
year the annual work program and financial plans for the following year including
commitments from the other stakeholders to ensure adequate and timely counterpart
funding.
Indicative Donor Support for NAADS
Funding Source:             Indicative Commitment:                      Total    Duration
(US$
mill.)
Donor
-IFAD                       Commitment                                  17.5      7 years
(7 yr US$ 17.5 million)
-Ireland AID                Indicative commitment for first 3 years:    2.255     3 years
US$ 0.33; 0.55 and 1.375 million.
-African Develop. Bank      Possibly project based support to NAADS
Bank
-DANIDA                     Initial commitment to support trail-blazing  0.35     1 year
Activities for 2 years, with outcome of this
to determine involvement in program.
-Netherlands Intern.        Indicative for 2001 US$ 1.0 million (Year 1)  1       1 year
Assistance                  In December decision on commitments
for following 3 years, possibly at similar
Levels.
-DFID                       Indicative US$ 5.2 million for first 3 years  To be   3 years
to be confirmed in November.               confirme
d
-EU                         Indicative US $20 million for PMA funding   12        4 years
(research & advisory services) over 4 years  Indicativ
e
Allocation be decided, assumed in funding
that 60% to NAADS.
-NORAD                      Uganda Program under review.
Decision on support to NAADS to
be made October/ November 2000.
JICA                        Interested in participating, though this will
require a change in the usual JICA funding
modality.
-World Bank                  Credit US $45 million                      45        7 years
-USA1D                      Currently reviewing country program
and preparing new 5 year strategy
- 49 -



Government of Uganda Financing Commitment The GOU have provided firm
commitments on the feasibility of achieving the planned financing targets. Increased
revenue collections and support to agricultural extension at the national level, and
expenditure savings with NAADS from reduced recurrent wage costs at the district
level will be used to meet this contribution. Sub-counties receive a percentage of local
district revenue as their funding source. Currently districts retain 35 per cent of local
revenue, and of the remaining (65 per cent) it is allocated to: the county (5 per cent);
sub-county (65 per cent); parish (5 per cent) and village (25 per cent).
Farmer Financing Commitment The economic analysis has indicated that farm
households participating in NAADS activities will have increased farm returns and the
capacity to contribute to the cost of the services. The level of contribution will vary
depending on the type of farmer, with subsistence farmers only making a small
contribution, while the market oriented and commercial farmers will contribute a larger
percentage.
2. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
2.1    Overview
The proposed financial management arrangements for NAADS include the pooling of
donor resources through a foreign currency Budget Support Account maintained in a
commercial bank. The pooling arrangements will be governed by a Joint Donor Pooling
Memorandum of Understanding. Funds to enable the implementation of program activities
will be transferred from the GoU Consolidated Fund as a conditional grant to the districts
and sub-counties. The funds flow mechanism will therefore follow as closely as possible
the existing government mechanisms for such transfers and the Guidelines under the
Poverty Action Fund (PAF), which is the government's mechanism for transferring
conditional grants to districts. Detailed NAADS financial management and accounting
procedures and guidelines for Districts and Sub-Counties will be documented in a Financial
Procedures Manual. These will take into account the requirements of the Local Government
Act and the LG Financial and Accounting Regulations and will follow as closely as
possible the PAF Guidelines entitled 'General Guidelines for Planning and Operation of
Conditional Grants under the Poverty Action Plan', and 'Guidelines for the Planning and
Operation of the PAF Monitoring and Accountability Grant'.
2.2    Institutional Arrangements
The mandate of the MAAIF to inspect, monitor and coordinate NAADS activities in the
local governments will be delegated to the NAADS Board. The NAADS Secretariat will
manage the NAADS budget for activities undertaken centrally. Funds for these national
level activities will be channeled through the NAADS Secretariat budget Vote. The
designated budget holder will be the NAADS Secretariat.
Staffing arrangements for the implementing agencies will follow already existing
structures. No additional accounting staff will therefore be employed at the local
government level. Minimum access criteria will be relied on to ensure that districts and
sub-counties have the minimum expected accounting capacity to manage NAADS funds
entrusted with them before they gain access to them. These criteria are drawn from the
Local Government Act and the Local Government Financial and Accounting Regulations
and are largely similar to those used under the LGDP. Districts and sub-counties that do not
meet the minimum criteria will access a capacity building fund to assist them strengthen
their accounting capabilities.
- 50 -



With regard to overall policy direction and guidance on financial management matters, a
Financial Management Committee will be constituted and will report to the NAADS Board.
The Committee will review NAADS periodic financial reports as part of its duties. There
will be a department responsible for financial management at the NAADS Secretariat
whose duties will include accounting for centrally undertaken activities and for
consolidating returns from the districts. This department will also be responsible for
monitoring the accounting performance of the districts and sub-counties and offering
assistance where required. It will be headed by a Financial Controller who will be assisted
by an Accountant. Four Quality Assurance Reviewers will also be employed and will form
a mobile unit to achieve this purpose.
The Production Departments, the Production/ Development Committees and the Technical
Planning Committees of the District will also be involved in the preparation ofworkplans
and budgets.
2.3    Planning
In line with guidelines and ceilings communicated by the NAADS Secretariat in November
each year (multi-annual indicative planning figures), eligible districts and other
implementing agencies will identify broad priorities and activities to take place in the
forthcoming financial year. On this basis, Districts will prepare NAADS annual work
plans, based on sub-county plans and incorporated in the District's 3 year Development
Plan. District NAADS work plans will be submitted as stand alone documents. Upon
finalization of agreed work plans (by May each year), Districts and the NAADS Secretariat
will sign Letters of Understanding drawn up in accordance with PAF guidelines, with the
agreed work plans attached. The preparation of NAADS work plans and budgets at District
and Sub-County level will be guided by the needs identified by the Farmers' Fora. Work
plans and budgets will be prepared by the Production Department in close collaboration
with the Production/ Development Committee and the Technical Planning Committee of
the District and they will be approved by the local councils as part of the Local Government
Medium Term Economic Framework (MTEF) and annual budgeting process.
Planning and budgeting for central support programs carried out by the NAADS Secretariat
will follow a similar cycle. The NAADS Secretariat will prepare annual work plans and
budgets for these programs, for approval by the Board.
The channeling of donors' funds through the budget has a number of implications in terms
of financial planning and management. Donors will be required to plan, budget and
mobilize their support in line with the Government planning and budgeting cycle. Donors
will provide indicative financial commitments (Indicative Planning Figures) on a multi-
annual basis (at least 3 years). These figures will be integrated in GoU MTEF, alongside
Government's own resources earmarked for NAADS. Respective contributions to the
NAADS budget for each budget year will be adjusted and firmed up annually. This must be
done in due time for GoU budget finalization (annual budget ceilings are derived from GoU
finalized MTEF) usually in March/ April each year.
- 51 -



2.4    The Flow of Funds Mechanism
Donor funding for the NAADS program will be channeled through a pooled account, the
NAADS Budget Support Account. This will be a foreign currency account held in a
commercial bank and will be operated by the Director of Accounts in the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED). The GoU Treasury is
responsible for maintaining the accounting records and ledgers, and for preparing the
reports showing the transactions on the account. Donors' funds will flow from this account
into the GoU Consolidated Fund from where, in addition to GoU contribution, they will be
transferred to the NAADS Secretariat, districts and sub-counties.
Donors will release their contributions to the NAADS Budget Support Account at the
beginning of every quarter on the basis of cash flow forecasts and subject to the submission
of acceptable Program Management Reports (PMRs), including financial statements,
Output Monitoring Reports, and Procurement and Contract Management Reports. The
Program will prepare and submit rolling six month cashflow forecasts every quarter. The
amount advanced to the NAADS Budget Support Account will be equal to the Program's
six-month forecast of eligible expenditures minus the balance remaining in the NAADS
Budget Support Account at the end of the quarter under review. The initial release will
therefore cover six months of program expenditures.
The flow of funds to the districts and sub-counties will followGoU mechanisms for inter-
government transfers as closely as possible. NAADS Program funding will be channeled
from the GoU Consolidated Fund (including transfers from the Budget Support Account
and the GoU contributions) to districts as conditional grants. Districts and sub-counties will
be required to open and operate a designated NAADS account. Funds will be transferred to
the district 'Government Grants Collection Account' from where they will be transferred to
the district NAADS account in respect of district implemented activities and to the sub-
county NAADS account in respect of sub-county and farmer's fora activities. Payments will
be made from these accounts for NAADS eligible expenditures incurred by the district and
sub-county and for services rendered to the Farmers' Fora. Funds transferred to local
governments that remain unused at the end of a fiscal year will be remitted back to the
Treasury in line with PAF guidelines.
At the inception of program implementation in a district, a quarterly release will be made
based on cashflow requirements as indicated in a six month cashflow forecast. The release
to implementing agencies at the beginning of the first quarter will cover the requirements
for that quarter and, similarly, the release for the second quarter will cover thecashflow
requirements for that quarter. The release for the third and subsequent quarters will be
based on the submission of quarterly reports for the quarter before the previous one and
cashflow forecasts for the following two quarters. To ensure transparency and
accountability to end users and beneficiaries, districts will be required to post mandatory
public notices for funds received for NAADS activities in accordance with PAF guidelines.
In addition, Farmers' Fora at all levels will be notified through letters from the District (and
Sub-County) administration. The diagram below depicts the Common Funds Flow
Mechanism proposed for the NAADS Program.
- 52 -



NAADS Program Common Flow Of Funds Mechanism
Budget                                       Budget
Support                                      Support
Donor A                                      Donor B
1\    A
NAADS Budget Support
(Forex) Account
2
GOU                     3
Consolidated Fund                             NAADS
(UgShs) Account                      ,       Secretariat
4
GOU Grants
Collection Account
Sub-Country
5                               ~~~~~~~~~Matching Grn
6
Distict AADSSub-County NAADS]
9            y             ~~~~~~~~Account               Account
Contribution
Notes
I All donors providing Budget Support will release funds to theforex a/c in BOUI. (locus to be agreed, will be managed by the Treasury.
Releases will be based on a set of triggers (Appendix 7).
2 Funds will be released to the GOU Consolidated Fund a/c at BOU in UG.Shs. Trigger for release of funds to consolidated a/c will be
statement of release of counterpart funds from the GOU Consolidated Fund. Transfer of funds from the Consolidated a/c to NAADS
Executive and District Grants Collection a/cshould be within a period not exceeding two daysafter receipt from the forex a/c.
3 NAADS Secretariat will be established with a separate Budget Vote. The Budget Vote Holder/Accounting Officer will be the NAADS
Board Secretary.
4 Funds will be disbursed to the GOU Grants Collection a/c at the district under the PAF Conditional Grant Guidelines.
5 Funds will be disbursed to the Sub- County NAADS a/c. The trigger for disburseme9t of funds to Sub- County NAADS a/c is availability of
the Sub - County Matching Grant on the a/c.
6 Fund will be disbursed from the Collection a/c to the District NAADS a/c within a period not exceeding two days from date of receipt from the
GOU Consolidated a/c. The trigger for disbursement of funds to the District NAADS a/c is the availability of the district Matching Grant on the
a/c.
7 Farmers' contributions (2% of total annual budget) will be a trigger for disbursement of funds to the Sub-Country NAADS a/c.
'The Poverty Action Fund (PAF) was set up in 1998 tomobilise and guarantee resources from GOU and Donors, for
key sectors/programmes identified in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan. The PAF is an integral part (distribution
earmarking channel) of the GOU Consolidated Fund Account PAFProgrammes are integrated into GOU normal
planning and budgeting systems (MTEF, PIP annual budget). GOU has established a strengthened financial
management, reporting and accountability procedures that apply to all funds spcnt under PAF.
- 53 -



2.5    Reporting
Districts will be required to submit returns showing consolidated accounts for the district
itself and for sub-counties within their areas of jurisdiction. Submission and consolidation
of returns will occur on a monthly basis, with sub-counties and districts submitting monthly
returns to the next higher level, i.e., for the sub-county to the district and for the district to
the NAADS Secretariat. These reports will be consolidated to show quarterly results for the
NAADS program every quarter and will include:
Financial Report (showing quarterly and cumulative results);
* Output Monitoring Report;
* Procurement and Contract Management Report; and
* Cashflow forecast (showing the funds request for the following quarter).
Quarterly reports to Donors will include a statement provided by the Director of Accounts
summarizing transactions on the NAADS Budget Support Account and transfers into and
out of the Consolidated Fund. This report will be used by Donors to monitorGoU
contributions to the NAADS Program.
The submission of these reports by the NAADS Secretariat to donors will be a pre-requisite
for releases of funding for the following quarter's activities . Indicative formats for reports
will be prepared and included in the Financial Procedures Manual. The reports will be
submitted and discussed at the PAF quarterly meetings. The PMRs will be accompanied by
copies of the bank statements for the NAADS Budget Support Account and the program
bank accounts maintained by the NAADS Secretariat, Districts and the sub-counties.
Copies of the reports will be availed to the MoFPED and MAAIF in line with PAF
Guidelines. The NAADS Secretariat will be required to put in place a mechanism for the
review of the returns from the districts.
Annual financial statements will also be prepared and submitted for audit within 3 months
of the reporting date. The audit reports and accounts will be submitted to donors within 6
months of the reporting date.
The following table shows the deadlines for the submission of accountability and for the
release of donor funds into the Donor Account:
Entity                Activity                                                 Deadline (days
after quarter end)
Sub-county                 Preparation of monthly returns                              15
Submission to district
District                   Consolidation of monthly returns                            30
Preparation of quarterly consolidated accounts
Submission to The NAADS Secretariat
NAADS Secretariat          Verification of submitted accountability                    45
Consolidation of returns
Preparation of consolidated NAADS quarterly reports,
cashflow forecasts and budget requests
Submission to Donors
Donors                     Review of quarterly reports                                 60
Release of funds to the pooled account
- 54 -



2.6    Monitoring
As part of the monitoring of Program activities, the Treasury Inspectorate of MFPED will
carry out quarterly monitoring visits to review financial flows and the delivery of value-for-
money. The NAADS Secretariat be responsible for reviewing and analyzing district reports
and ensuring that periodic monitoring visits are carried out. Part of the monitoring activities
of the NAADS Secretariat and the local governments will be funded by 5% of the funds
transferred as conditional grants in line with the GoU's Guidelines for PAF Monitoring and
Accountability Grant.
GoU and the Donors will jointly commission an annual independent/external review of
implementation of the NAADS program. The organization of an annual independent Joint
Review Mission will be a joint responsibility of MAAIF (in collaboration withMoFPED)
and of the Donors' Group. GoU and Donors will rely on a single team incorporating all of
the relevant disciplines working to agreed TORs whose task will be to review the
implementation progress of the NAADS program, make recommendations and highlight
issues for discussion and/ or for increased attention for further Review Missions (focal
areas). The independent team will also assess the extent to which basic principles are being
followed and undertakings are being met.
2.7    Annual Audit
There will be an annual financial audit of all NAADS expenditure. This will be carried out
by the Auditor General or under his auspices. The annual audit will include a review of the
operations of the NAADS Budget Support Account, providing a detailed analysis of the
inflows to, and outflows from this Account. The aim of the financial audit will be to verify
that expenditures were in line with budget allocations, and that actual spending was
apportioned from GoU own resources and from the Budget Support Account in the correct
proportions.
The system audit will cover jointly agreed focal areas or 'hot spots', following identified
weaknesses in the systems and/ or responding to the need for verification of aspects of
Value For Money, cost-efficiency and cost-effectiveness of NAADS implementation.
The appointed auditors will also be required to visit local governments on a rotational basis
and specifically report on their accounting systems.
Terns of Reference of the annual audit will be prepared and agreed between the
OAG MAAIF and the Donors.
3. Risk Assessment: A Financial Management Perspective
3.1    The recently prepared Draft CFAA Report on Uganda concluded that the central
and local government financial management systems represent high fiduciary risk. To
mitigate those financial management risks and to provide comfort to stakeholders
participating in the proposed Common Flow of Funds Mechanism (CFFM, Appendix 1),
the following areas will need to be addressed:
(a) The enabling legislation, the NAADS Organization Bill, should be enacted. The
NAADS Board of Directors and the NAADS Secretariat should be appointed.
(b) A representative Financial Management and Procurement Committee should be
established. It should meet quarterly to review the quarterly consolidated reports that
provide a trigger for replenishing the Budget Support (Forex) Account.
- 55 -



(c) Following its establishment, the financial management staff of the NAADS
Secretariat should include: a Financial Controller (DraftTORs are provided in
Appendix 3), an Accountant and 4 rotating Quality Assurance Reviewers
(d) Prior to being admitted into the CFFM, a capacity assessment should be
undertaken of each proposed District and Sub-county, using or relying on LGDP
assessment criteria. Additionally, appropriate staff training on the use of the Financial
Procedures Manual, referred to in (e) below, should be arranged for all Districts and
Sub-counties prior to their participation in the CFFM.
(e) A Financial Procedures Manual should be prepared, covering "inter alia":
accounting system (manual and computerized), flow of funds/timing of flows and
triggers, chart of accounts, quarterly reporting formats (financial, activities and contract
management), records management/internal controls, eligibility criteria for
participation by Districts and Sub-counties etc. The Manual should be integrated with
PAF and LGDP arrangements. A Financial Management Consultant should be
engaged to prepare the Manual.
(f) By effectiveness, an external firm of auditors should be appointed under the
auspices of the Office of the Auditor General on TORs acceptable to stakeholders,
including provision for rotational/continuous auditing on a sampling basis throughout
the financial year.
(g) A Memorandum of Understanding should be agreed by participating stakeholders.
Sections in the Memorandum should include: annual approval of budget/work plans,
quarterly cash flow forecasts, commitments, flow of funds/timing of flows and triggers,
procurement, reporting, review and evaluation, external audit, timing, etc.
(h) Triggers re release of funds should be agreed by Negotiation. An indicative list of
triggers is provided in Annex 6.
- 56 -



3.2    To satisfactorily address the aforementioned items, a Financial Management
Action Plan has been prepared as follows:
Financial Management Action Plan
Activities                                           Responsibilities       Indicative Deadline
Signing of Memorandum of Understanding setting out the   Stakeholders, including   Dec. 2000
terms and procedures for the joint funding of the Program    DA/MFPED
Finalization of the Triggers                         MAAIF, NAADS Sec,   Dec. 2000
DA/MFPED, MOLG
Capacity assessment of the participating Districts and Sub-  Task Force, including    Dec. 2000
counties                                             Treasury Inspectorate
Enabling Environment:                                MAAIF/Parliament       Feb 2001
(a) enactment of NAADS law.
(b) establishment of NAADS Board.
(c) establishment of NAADS Secretariat.
Establishment of Financial Management and Procurement  NAADS Sec/Board      March 2001
Committee
Availability of signed subsidiary agreements by relevant    NAADS Sec/MOLG  Effectiveness
parties at Central, District and Sub-county levels
Opening of all Bank Accounts                         DA/MFPED, Districts    Effectiveness
& Sub-Counties
Approval of AWPs, activity budgets and cash forecasts  Financial Management   Effectiveness
(analyzed by quarter)                                &Procurement Comm/
Secretariat/Board/DA
Appointment of Financial Controller, Accountant, QARs    NAADS Sec/Board    Feb. 2001
and support staff
Appointment of Financial Management Consultant re    DA/MFPED, Fin Man    Jan. 2001
preparation of Financial Procedures Manual           & Proc Comm
Training in the use of the Financial Procedures Manual  NAADS Secretariat   Effectiveness
Appointment of External Auditors under the auspices of    Office of the Auditor  Effectiveness
the Auditor General                                  General
3.3     From a financial management perspective, subject to the activities identified in
the Financial Management Action Plan being satisfactorily addressed by credit
effectiveness, the NAADS program should be eligible for PMR-based disbursements. In
that regard, a financial management review of the Program should be undertaken one
month prior to effectiveness by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist.
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Procurement
General
All goods would be procured in accordance with "Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999". Bank's standard bidding documents for goods
and standard evaluation forms would be used. All procurement of consultant services
would be done in accordance with "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999." Bank's Standard Requests for Proposals and evaluation forms would
be used. Based on these Guidelines, simple procurement procedures for application at
the national, district and sub-county levels would be developed as part of the Project
Implementation Manual.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and must be published in the UN
Development Business and in a national newspaper as provided under the Guidelines,
immediately after negotiations. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and
would show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods
contracts and all International Consulting Services. Specific Procurement Notices for
goods to be procured under ICB and Expressions of Interest for consultancy services
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 and above will also be published in
the Development Business. Details on project costs by procurement arrangements are
presented in Table A.
Procurement Methods
(a)    Goods (US$4.5 million): This component will consist of motor vehicles,
equipment and office furniture. The vehicles will include station wagons, pick-ups
and motor cycles. The equipment will include computers, printers, photocopiers, and
communication equipment (fax machines and telephone/radio equipment for
communication with districts and sub-counties). The furniture will consist of filing
cabinets and book shelves. To the extent possible, contracts for vehicles, equipment
and office furniture shall be grouped into packages estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or more and will be procured though International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Domestic preference will be applicable. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount US$500,000 will be procured through NCB.
Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0million equivalent may be procured through
shopping procedures by soliciting at least three quotations from different suppliers.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 may be procured through IAPSO in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. National shopping
for regular operation and maintenance will follow IDA guidelines. Procurement of
goods and hiring of facilities for training purposes, such as workshops, will also be
carried out through shopping procedures. ICB procurement will be carried out by the
NAADS Secretariat for the whole program. NCB and Shopping will be carried out
by the NAADS Secretariat for its requirements and each district will carry out its
own procurement under NCB and Shopping arrangements.
- 58 -



(b)    Consultant Services and Training (US$93.69): The category of
"Services" includes consulting services for: program management and monitoring;
technology and market development; advisory and information services to farmers;
regulation and technical auditing of farmers; and private sector institutional
development. Training will consist of orientation workshops and other workshops for
service provider standards and technical audits. All consulting service contracts
costing more than US$100,000 equivalent for firms will be awarded through Quality
and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting service contracts estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 for firms may be awarded through the Consultants'
Qualifications selection method. For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost
less than US$ 100,000 and where well established practices and standards exist such
as financial audits, Least-Cost selection method may be used. All consulting services
of individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. In exceptional cases,
Single-Source selection would be used in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11. To this effect, services procured at the district level under
work plans satisfactory to the Association which are estimated to cost less than
$5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000
equivalent may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured on single-source
basis.
IDA Prior Review
Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods estimated to
cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per
paragraph 2 Appendix I of the Guidelines. Other contracts will be subject to post
review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix I of the Guidelines. All consulting
contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms will be subject to IDA
prior review. With respect to each contract for employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to
IDA for its prior review. All single-source selection of consultants estimated to cost
more than US$5,000 will be subject to IDA prior review. Other procurements subject
to IDA review will include overseas training and workshops estimated to cost more
than US$50,000.
Procurement Plans The Borrower will prepare a Global Procurement Strategic Plan
(GPSP). A detailed Procurement Plan for the first year of the project showing
processing time for each component was prepared prior to negotiations. By March 31
each year, NAADS would update the GPSP and prepare a detailed Annual
Procurement Plan for the following year. The Borrower will also prepare a detailed
Annual Training Plan showing the type of training to be undertaken, the timing and
the cost of each training activity. This plan would also be discussed and agreed with
IDA by March 31 each year.
Procurement Capacity Assessment The procurement capacity of NAADS was
assessed in terms of its preparedness to carry out procurement under the project.
Legal Aspects. The procurement system in Uganda is in the process of being
reformed both at the Central Government and Local Government levels. The Central
and Local governments are operating under the 1977 Finance Act and 1997 Local
Government Act, respectively. New procurement regulations were introduced at the
Central Government level with effect from September 8, 2000. While a new
Procurement law is in the process of being drafted, the Minister of Finance invoked
the 1977 Finance Act to introduce these new Regulations. The reforms have three
main features:
Enactment of a new procurement law based on the UNCITRAL model law.
Converting the Central Tender Board (CTB) into a policy and regulatory body
- 59 -



* Creating Contract Committees at the Ministerial andParastatal levels that will be
responsible for all procurement in that Ministry and parastatal respectively. The plan
is to create these committees by January 1, 2001.
Procurement Cycle Management. NAADS organization is not yet in place, such
aspects as procurement cycle management, record keeping and organizations and
functions for procurement management could not be assessed. This will become
clear when the organization is actually set up at which time an assessment will have
to be carried out as to whether the reporting arrangements are suitable for efficient
procurement. By the time NAADS is operational, the new Procurement Regulations
will be in place. These Regulations have built-in checks and balances but their
effective application will very much depend on the organization structure and the
management which is in place in NAADS.
Procurement Staffing Needs. Initially, at least two procurement staff will be
required at NAADS headquarters. One of them will be involved in the day-to-day
management of the procurement function at the NAADS headquarters while the other
one will be responsible for organizing training and carrying out regular procurement
audits. At the district level, at least one procurement staff will be required to manage
the procurement function at the District and the NAADS sub-counties within that
district, in liaison with the sub-county coordinators. The NAADS sub-county
coordinators will therefore need to be trained in procurement. Contracts will be
approved by the Tender Board Sub-committees of the Farmers forums at national,
district and sub-county levels.
General Procurement Environment. The general procurement environment is
being addressed in the framework of the ongoing procurement reforms. As far as
salary structure and levels of procurement staff are concerned, these will be
addressed by the project by offering remuneration which are commensurate to those
offered in the private sector. The staff of NAADS will consist of short and long term
consultants.
Private Sector. An important part of assessment is the opinion of private
firms dealing with the implementing agency on how the written regulations and
procedures are applied in practice. Currently, the private sector view of the
agriculture sector is not favorable. This impression is expected to change
substantially when NAADS is operational because NAADS will in fact be private
sector driven.
Conclusion. The procurement risk in this operation is considered high. Most of the
systems are not yet in place and could not be assessed. A new piece of legislation -
the Public Finance (Procurement) Regulations 2000 Statutory Instrument 64/2000 -
will provide for the establishment of improved procurement capacity at the local
government level including the appointment of contract committees. These
provisions will begin to be put into place in January, 2001. This will help to
strengthen capacity at local levels and means that the suggested capacity building and
staffing requirements originally contemplated under NAADS may not need to be as
extensive as had originally been thought. Still, in order to enable this project to
operate under the Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursement system as
proposed, an action plan to mitigate the risk is presented below. Before any
procurement can start, procurement capacity assessment will have to be carried out to
ascertain that the proposed actions have been undertaken. The following actions
need to carried out before the Bank can achieve a level of confidence to adopt PMR-
based disbursement system for this project.
- 60 -



Risk Mitigation Procurement Action Plan
Action                         Responsibilities                    Indicative deadline
I l      Signing of Memorandum of Understanding setting out the  Stakeholders - Donors and
terms and procedures for the joint funding of the Program  the Government
December 2000
2        Preparation of a Procurement Plan                       Task Force
Negotiations
3        Preparation of Implementation Manual incorporating      Task Force
procurement procedures for the project                 December 2000
4        Enabling Environment Enactment of NAADS law.            MAAIF/Parliament
(b) preparation of NAADS Regulations                   Effectiveness
5        Organization and Management: Establishment of NAADS
Board. Establishment of Farmers Forums at District and Sub-   MAAIF
County levels Establishment of NAADS Secretariat at    NAADS Board
National, District and Sub-County levels (d) Establishment of  NAADS Board
Procurement and Financial Management Committee
NAADS Secretariat
Effectiveness
6        Availability of signed subsidiary agreements by relevant  NAADS Sec/MOLGAs
parties at Central, District and Sub-county levels     districts enter program
7        Contracting of Procurement Specialists at National (2) and  NAADS Secretariat
District levels (as needed)                            March 2001 (national),
and as districts
enter program
8        Procurement Capacity Assessment of NAADS Secretariat and   Bank staff and NAADS
the participating Districts and Sub-counties           Secretariat March 2001
(national), and as districts
enter program
9        Training in the use of the Procurement Procedures Manual  NAADS Secretariat March
2001
- 61 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Methodl
Expenditure Category            ICB       Procurement   Other2            N.B.F.    Total Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _N   C B                     _  _  _  _
1. Works                           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (000)
2. Goods                           3.95           0.57                         0.00         4.52
(1.52)         (0.24)          (           (0.00)       (1.76)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00           87.67         0.00        87.67
(0.00)         (0.00)        (36.04)       (0.00)       (36.04)
4. Training                        0.00           0.00           6.02          0.00         6.02
(0.00)         (0.00)        (3.15)        (0.00)       (3.15)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00           0.00           9.70          0.00         9.70
(0.00)         (0.00)        (4.05)        (0.00)       (4.05)
Total                           3.95           0.57          103.39         0.00        107.91
____________________________       (1.52)         (0.24)        (43.24)        (0.00)      (45.00)
1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs
include contingencies
2/   Includes goods (mostly for consultants use) to be procured through shopping;
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office,
training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Contract Value                             Contracts Subject to
Threshold            Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category    (US$ thousands)               Method              (US$ millions)
1. Works                          n/a
2. Goods                          100                    ICB                     2.0
3. Services
Firms                         loo                  QCBS                     2.0
Individuals                   50                     CQ                     1.0
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$5 Million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
in the first year and one every 6 months in the following years (includes special procurement
supervision for post-revieW/audits).
I Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of
Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for
guidance.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of the Credit proceeds is shown in Table C. The proceeds will be
disbursed over a seven year period. The disbursement will be against four main
expenditure categories: Goods; AAS Grants for Sub-projects under parts A and B of
the Project; Consultants' Services, Training, and Audit Fees; and Operating Costs.
Budget Support Account (BSA)
It is intended that disbursements for all expenditures will be based on the submission
of acceptable quarterly Program Management Reports (PMRs). The quarterly PMRs
will include the Financial, Program Progress and Procurement Management reports.
In the event that the Program does not qualify for the PMR-based disbursements by
effectiveness, the Traditional Disbursement methods will apply.
IDA disbursements will be deposited initially into a dollar-denominated Special
Account for NAADS to be established and maintained in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The Government of Uganda will also establish and maintain
a Budget Support Account (BSA) in US dollars in a commercial bank. The account
will be operated by the Director of Accounts in the Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development. The Budget Support Account will serve as the basket fund
account into which all the donors participating in the program (including IDA) will
make quarterly releases in accordance with the agreement reached in the
Memorandum of Understanding. According to these triggers, IDA support to
NAADS will be channeled into the BSA from the Special Account.
Quarterly releases as agreed by the donors will be made from the BSA in Ugandan
shillings equivalent into the Government of Uganda Consolidated Fund Account. The
releases together with the GoU's agreed quarterly budget allocation to the NAADS
program will be made from the Consolidated Fund Account to the NAADS
Secretariat and eligible districts and sub-counties through the GoU's budgetary
system. Triggers for release of funds to the NAADS Secretariat, Districts, and Sub-
Counties are as stated below.
NAADS Program Bank Accounts
In order to ensure timely release of funds for the program activities and for
accountability purposes, the NAADS secretariat and each participating district and
sub-county will open and maintain in commercial banks NAADS program bank
accounts for the program funds and eligible expenditures.
Audit
The Program financial statements, including the BSA and Program bank accounts,
will be audited each year by an independent auditing firm under the terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA.
The auditing firm will also carry out quarterly limited reviews of the NAADS
secretariat, districts, and sub-counties on rotational basis. The reviews will form an
integral part of the annual audit reports.
- 64 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in              Financing Percentage
US$million
(I) Goods                                                                    65%
(a)                                           0.40
(b)                                           1.27
(2) AAS Grants for Sub-projects under                                        72%
parts A and B of the Project
(a)                                           0.45
(b)                                           23.60
(3) Consultant Services and Training                                         72%
(a)                                           0.30
(b)                                          12.10
(4) Operating Expenditures                                                   65%
(a)                                          0.23
(b)                                          3.65
Unallocated                                    3.00
Total Project Costs                            45.00
Total                                          45.00
Triggers for the Release of Funds by IDA
First Release
1) Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) agreed to by all the participating
Donors.
2) Establishment of the NAADS Secretariat/ Financial Management Committee.
3) Preparation and approval of the program Financial Procedures Manual.
4) Satisfactory program capacity assessment at all levels, building on the LGDP
capacity assessment as well as training in the use of the Financial Procedures
Manual.
5) Certification of eligibility of the program for the Program Management
Report- based Disbursements. (to be done by the FMS/OPR, TTL, PS and the
FMS/LOA.)
6) Appointment of external auditors.
7) Approved annual workplan (plan of activities) and budgeted amounts by
financiers, in accordance with the agreement reached in the MOU.
8) Cash flow forecast by activities and cash flow request for the first six months
of the program.
9) Opening of Bank Accounts.
10) Withdrawal Application for the first release as approved by the FMC in
consultation with the Director of Accounts, MFPED
Note- The maximum amount to be released is the amount required for the subsequent
two quarters and in accordance with the DCA provisions.
- 65 -



Second and subsequent Releases - (on quarterly basis)
1. Quarterly Program Management Report:
A. Financial Report
Program Sources and Uses of Funds (in Uganda Shillings)
Uses of Funds by Program Activity (in Uganda Shillings)
Program Cash Withdrawals (Disbursements) (in Uganda Shillings)
Budget Support Account Statement (in US dollars)
Program Cash Forecast (in Uganda Shillings)
B. Program Progress Report
Output Monitoring Report (Contract Management) (in Uganda Shillings)
Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by Activity) (in Uganda
Shillings)
C. Procurement Management Report
Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods)
Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services)
Contract Expenditure Report (Goods)
Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)
2.     Annual/Periodic
A. Copies of annual audited Accounts/Management Report/FMC's comments/
AG's comments
B. Quarterly external auditors report on the rotational/continuos audits
3.     Copies of Supervision Mission Reports
Notes:
The quarterly PMRs will be accompanied by copies of the NAADS Budget Support
Account and the program bank accounts maintained by the NAADS Secretariat,
Districts and the Sub-counties.
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Project Schedule                                      Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           18
First Bank mission (identification)                 04/15/99                      04/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                          09/15/2000                   09/11/2000
Negotiations                                         12/01/2000                   11/30/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       04/15/2001
Prepared by:
The design and preparation of the program proposal have been carried out by the Agricultural
Extension Task Force of Uganda's Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) and of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries, and Fisheries (MAAIF). Much of their work has been
done in dialogue and collaboration with stakeholders throughout Uganda as well as with a number of
lending/donor agencies which are likely to provide support to the NAADS program. A number of
NGOs and other related stakeholders have also participated in the discussions and deliberations. In
addition to the World Bank, most of the donor agencies are listed in the paragraph below.
Preparation assistance:
A number of donor agencies and NGOs participated in the identification, design, and preparation of
the NAADS program. Among the participating agencies (other than the World Bank) are the
following: ADB, DANIDA, DFID, Dutch Aid, European Commission, FAO and FAO/CP, French
Secretariat for Cooperation, Ireland Aid, and NORAD, Sasakawa Global 2000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Speciality
David Nielson                         Task Team Leader - Senior Economist
John Jaramoga Oloya                   Rural Development Specialist
Christine Cornelius                   Senior Operations Officer
Lawrence Salrnen                      Senior Sociologist
W. Graeme Donovan                     Lead Economist
Edgardo Quisumbing                    Senior Agriculturalist
Almaz Teklesenbet                     Team Assistant
Marie-Helene Collion                  Senior Agricultural Services Specialist
Pierre Rondot                         Producers' Organizations Specialist (Consultant)
Anthony Hegarty                       Senior Financial Management Specialist
Modupe Adebowale                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
Joseph Kizito                         Financial Management Specialist
Rogati Kayani                         Senior Procurement Specialist
Aberra Zerabruk                       Senior Counsel
Yisgedullish Amde                     Poverty Targetting
Pamela Khumbah                        Gender Specialist (Consultant)
- 67 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Uganda NAADS Master Document of the NAADS Task Force, MAAIF, October 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
(1) Uganda - Rural Development Strategy (January, 2000).
(2) Uganda - Agricultural Sector memorandum (February, 1998).
(3) Risk Assessment - a financial management perspective (September 2000)
C. Other
(1) The Republic of Uganda's General Guidelines for the Planning and Operation of Conditional
Grants under the Poverty Action Fund.
(2) Plan for Modernization of Agriculture: Eradicating Poverty in Uganda - "Government Strategy
and Operational Framework", MAAIF and MFPED; Government of Uganda (August 2000).
(3) The Fertilizer Market in Uganda: An Assessment and a Strategy for Development; International
Fertilizer Development Center (1999).
(4) Financial and Reporting Modalities for Government / Donors' Joint Funding of NAADS
(consultant's report, June 2000).
*Including electronic files
- 68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Dec-2000
Difference between
expected
Original Amount In USS Millions                   and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID            Purpose                                  IBRD         IDA          GEF    Cancel.  Undiab.         Orig         Frm
FY                                                                                                                    Rev'd
P050439       2001  PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR                 0.00      48.60         0.00       0.00     47.41       0.00       0.00
P002992       2000  REFORM                                         0.00     80.90          0.00       0.00     65.06       -9.17      0.00
P044679       2000  LOCAL GOV DEVE.PROGRAM                         0.00     34.04          0.00       0.00     29.66       5.47       0.00
P069840       2000  Second Economic and Fln. Mgmt. Project         0.00      33.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
P035311       1999  Power III Supplemental                         0.00       0.00         2.00       0.00      0.00       1.64       0.00
P002970       1999  PAMSU-GEF                                      0.00     90.98          0.00      0.00      8S.43       5.26       0.00
P044213       1999  ROADS DEVT PROGRAM                             0.00     13.00          0.00      0.00      12.93       8.62       0.00
P002941       1999  FIN MKTS ASSISTANCE                            0.00      12.40         2.00       0.00      6.09       2.20       0.00
P059127       1999  ICB PAMSU                                      0.00      29.00         0.00       0.00     22.47       3.95       0.00
P069223       1999  AGRIC.RES & TRNG. 11                           0.00      22.40         0.00       0.00     19.68      10.42       0.00
P040551       1998  NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REM                           0.00      34.00         0.00       0.00     24.84       5.87       0.00
P049543       1998  NUTRIT.CHILD DEV                               0.00      30.00         0.00       0.00     22.80      24.70       0.00
P002972       1998  ROAD SECTIINST.SUPP                            0.00      80.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       1.95       0.00
P057007       1998  EDUC SECTOR ADJ CRED                           0.00      27.60         0.00       0.00      23.36     2449        0.00
P002987       1997  EL NINO EMERG RD REP                           0.00     125.00         0.00       0.00     39.28      42.66      42.13
P046836       1997  SAC III                                        0.00      12.10         0.00      0.00       4.72       1.63       0.00
P046870       1997  LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                             0.00       9.80         9.80       0.00      6.07       3.27       0.00
P002978       1996  LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                             0.00      11.80         0.00       0.00       1.72      2.92       1.23
P037582       1996  ENVIRONMENTAL MGMT & CAPACITY BLDG             0.00      17.90         0.00      16.36       0.00     16.50       0.00
P03U634       1996  AG SEC MGT PROJECT                             0.00      12.30         0.00      2.18       2.58       5.68       0.00
P002976       1995  PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                           0.00      38.40         0.00       0.00      4.10       6.39       0.00
P002971       1995  INST. CAPACITY BLDG                            0.00      45.00         0.00       0.00       5.31      2.71       0.00
P039880       1996  DISTRICT HEALTH                                0.00       0.60         0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
P03664        1994  SACII                                          0.00       1.10         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
P002967       1994  FINANCE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT                      0.00      80.00         0.00       0.00       0.00     86.33       0.00
P002963       1994  SAC II                                         0.00      80.00         0.00       0.00       5.26      6.01       0.00
P002967       1994  SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                                0.00      42.30         0.00       0.00       6.90      6.84       0.00
P002923       1"4  SMALL TOWNS WATER                               0.00      76.00         0.00       0.00      24.03     25.68       0.00
P002893       1994  TRANSP. REHAB.                                 0.00       0.00         4.00       0.00      0.00       0.02       0.00
P002977       1994  Bwindi Foreet & Mgahinga GorIlla Nat. PK       0.00      14.00         0.00       0.00       1.12      1.33       1.38
P002976       1993  COTrON SECTOR DEVELO                           0.00      29.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       -1.33      0.00
- 69 -



P002S82      13  ECON * RIAANCIAL MAN                            e.00    100.00         0.00       0.Q5       0.00      .2.92     -2.15
P002S63       1993  FINAN SECT ADJUST CR                          0.00     52.60         0.00       0.00       4.17      4.15       1.98
P0023ss       193  PIMARY EDUC. &TEAC                             0.00     25.04         0.00       0.00       0.03      -0.17      0.00
P002991       1"3  AGRIC. RES & TRG. PHASE I                      0.00     15.60         0.00       0.12       0.00      0.10       0.00
P002          103  ASIUC. EXTENSION PROGRAM                       0.00      140          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
P00268s       1062  SAC I                                         0.00     65.60         0.00       0.00      0.18      21.67      -2.08
P002047       1092  ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                        0.00    125.00         0.00       0.00       0.00      4.30       0.00
P002900       1002  SAC I                                         0.00      1.60         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
P0Q2U1        1992  ECON RECOVERY II                              0.00     71.20         0.00       0.00      0.00       4.26       0.00
P002306       1091  NORTHERN RECONSTRUCTION                       0.00      2.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
P002020       1091  ECON REC 1I                                   0.00    121.00         0.00       0.00     17.20      -10.22     s1.76
P002S30       1991  POWER III                                     0.00     21.00         0.00       3.78       0.00      2.22      4.14
P0023S3       1991  LIVESTOCK                                     0.00     28.70         0.00       0.00      0.30       .0.30      0.00
P002074       130  URBAN I                                       0.00      0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
P002308       1900  ERIC I SFA                                    0.00     80.00         0.00       0.02      0.00       -4.06     .4o.
P002S73       1900  WATER SUPPLY II                               0.00      1.60         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
P00269        100   ECON REC PROG                                 0.00      1.70         0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
ECONOMIC RECOVERY
Total:        0.00    1703.26    17.80       23.41     484.70     200.20     120.03
- 70 -



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi
1996                   AEF Agro Mgmt                 0.60    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.55    0.40    0.00
1992                   AEF Clovergem                 0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00
1997                   AEF Conrad Plaza              1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.13    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF Exec. Invmnt              1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   AEF Gomba                     1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF Kampala Flwr              0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000                   AEF Kasambya                  0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
AEF Kiwa II                  0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1997                   AEF Ladoto                    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00
2000                   AEF LongFreight               0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000                   AEF Mosa Court                0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF Nile Roses                0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00
1993                   AEF Polypack                  0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00      0.00
1994                   AEF Rainbow                   0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00    0.00
1995                   AEF Rwenzori                  0.35    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.19    0.00
1993                   AEF Skay Electro              0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF Skyblue                   0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00
1994                   AEF White Nile                0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1998                   AEF Wstem Hgh                 0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1999                   Celtel                        0.43    0.64    0.80    0.00    0.43    0.64      0.80
1994                   DFCU                          0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00
1984/92                Jubilee                       0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1993                   Kasese Cobalt                13.33    3.60    0.00    0.00   13.33    3.60    0.00
1996                   Tilda Rice                    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00    0.00
1998                   Uganda Leasing                1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00      0.00
1995/96                Uganda Sugar                  5.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.08    0.00      0.00
1983
Total Portfolio:         34.17     5.53    0.80     0.00    30.01    5.53  0.80
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
FY Approval            Company                         Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1998                   AEF Ram Oil                   1000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000                   CelTel Uganda                 4000.00      0.00    700.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     5000.00     0.00    700.00      0.00
- 71 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UGANDA: National Agricultural Advisory Services Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Uganda     Africa   Income      Development dtamond
1999
Popultion, mid-year (millions)                       21.5       642      2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atls method, USS)                     320       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billons)                       8.8       321       988
Average annua growth, 199349
Popubtion (X                                          2.9        2.8       1.9
Labor force (%)                                       2.7        2.        2.3     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avalable, 199399)                                 ape                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  44
Urban population (% of total population)               13        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       42        50        so
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               97        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             26        32        43                Acceso to safe water
Access to improved water source (% ofpopulation)       41        43        64
llitercy (% of population age 15+)                     38        39        39
Gross primary enrolment (% of school-age population)  122        78        98            -Uganda
Male                                                129        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              114        71        as
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    19S3       1998      139
Economic ratioc
GDP (USS billions)                             ..     5.3        8.8       8.4
Grossdomestic investmenVGDP                           11.1      15.0      18.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and swvkealGDP                       8.0       10.3      11.3
Gross domestic savinge/GDP                             1.0       5.6       4.9
Gross national savings/GDP1                            1.9      13.4      10.5
Current account balance/GDP                           -6.9     -10.4    -11.6      Do   tic
Interest paymentsiGDP                                           o0.        0.6       m                         Investment
Total debtWGDP                                        36.2      53.6      54.3     Savings
Total debt servlkexports                                        25.5      23.1
Present vakie of debtUGDP                                       35.0      27.3
Preaent value of debtlexporte                                  350.6    225.3
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99    199S        1999   193943
(average annual gn-wth)
GDP                                 3.4       7.1      5.6       7.4       8.3                  Uganda
GNP per capita                       0.9     4.1      2.8        4.3       3.3                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        1.2    14.8   -14.9        33.0       6.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1973     1989      1990      139        rowth of Investment and GDP(%l
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                          56.8       44.6      44.4     e-
Industry                                              10.7      17.6      17.8    40
Manufacturing                                        5.9       8.9       8.7    20
Services                                              32.5      37.8      37.8      0
Private consumption                                  92.0       84.8      85.2    .20     94   95   9e   97    go   99
General govemment consumption                          7.0       9.6       9.9                    GDI       *  GDP
Imports of goods and services                         18.1      19.7      22.9
(average annual growth)                  197943  139S49        1996      1939      Growth of exports and Imports(%)
Agriculture                                   2.7      3.7       1.9       6.9    so
Industry                                     6.4      12.1      11.5       9.1    40
Manufacturing                               3.8     13.5      14.4      11.3
Services                                      3.2      8.1       6.6       7.2    20
Private consumption                           3.4     6.3        8.6       0.8     g
General govemment consumption                 0.6      8.2       8.0      17.4            94   95   9e
Gross domestic investment                    13.1      8.2       3.7       9.0    20
Imports of goods and services                 7.3     9.0        3.1       2.8                Exporbts      0Imports
Gross national product                        3.5      7.3       5.8       7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 72 -



Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    19SS       1998     1999      InltsIon(%)
D  css  prkes
(X change)                                                                        30
Consumerprm                                         131.0        5.8     -0.2    20pc
ImplicitGDPdeflator                           ..   115.4        10.7      4.4    10
Govwnment finance
(X of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                                        4    9           , 9    O
Current revenue                                       5.5       10.3     10.9    -ro
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.3        0.9      0.9                  GDP defltor 9CPI
Overall surplusdefidt                          ..    -4.8       -5.6     -5.9
TRADE
(LiSS millions)                             1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    282        458       549      AWoo
Coffee                                       ..    276         269      307
Cotton                                                          11       11
Manufactures                                                                    1.000
Total imports (df)                                    562      1,411    1,376
Food                                                                             -0
Fuel and energy                               ..     76         84       65
Capital goods                                ..       ..        ..        ..       o
Export pice index (1995=100)                   ..      92        74        67           93  94  95  go  DI  go  99
Importpnceindex(1995=100)                      ..      79       106       101                  *Exports     mimports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                         ..    117         70        67
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998      199      Cumnt acmount balance to GDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                         304       634       726      0
Imports of goods and services                         712      1,871    1,834
Resource balance                                     -408    -1,237   -1,107       4
Net incoie                                            -66         -9      -14    -4
Notcurrenttransfers                                   114       539       375     1 . ~                   I     *   I
Current account balance                              -360      -706      -746
Financing items (net)                                 342       840       780     12
Changes in net reserves                                 18     -134       -3 3
elnio:
Reserves including gold (US$ mi0ons)          ..       46       750       748
Conversion rate (DEC, Iloca/S$)                *-   170.4   1,149.7   1,3B2.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    19         1N9 19S  1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    CompostUon of 1999 debt (USS mnll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..   1,903      3,631    3,480
IBRD                                         ..      24         0         0                     F 58
IDA                                          ..    605       1,971    2,042            E: 44
Total debt service                                      ..      172       179
IBRD                                                  5         0         0                       I
IDA                                                   5        24        25
Composibon of net resource flows                                                     D: 385
Offial grants                               36      177       433      277                                     B: 2,042
Oflical creditors                           ..       ..       220       188
Private creditors                            *-       0         1         4
Foreigndirectinvestment                      2        2       200       230           C:351
Portfolio equity                                      a         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0      141       172       267     A-IBRD                      E-Biateral
Disbursements                                       100       242       148     B - IDA    D - OUter multlabtral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                  4        10        10     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                            96       231       138
Interest payments                                     6        14        15
Net transfers                               ..       90       217       123
Development Economics                                                                                               91loo
- 73 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Monitoring and Evaluation Processes
Introduction
The main purpose of monitoring and evaluation, M&E, within NAADS will be
to inform decisions at Sub-county level, which is where the operation and management of
the services are concentrated. Monitoring will be carried out and acted upon at the nearest
possible point to service delivery; a minimum of M&E activity and reporting will be
carried out at higher levels to inform decisions that have to be taken at those levels.
M&E will be carried out at four levels:
Local: farmers, on whose behalf the services are contracted will monitor, through
participatory systems and periodic Farmer Forum discussions, service provider
performance; conversely, service providers will be obligated under their contract to
monitor and evaluate the performance and impact of their inputs;
Sub-county: the Sub-county administration, which is responsible to District and Central
Government for proper use of public funds entrusted to it, and to residents in the Sub-
county for proper use of tax collected, will monitor overall coverage and effectiveness of
advisory services; and report to the Farmers Forum and District Council;
District: Production Department and/or Planning Unit staff will carry out periodic
technical audits of advisory services provided under contract to assure that they are
appropriate and of acceptable quality; and
National: at national level, M&E reporting will perform five main functions:
- evaluate the effectiveness -- and cost-effectiveness -- of advisory methods and
approaches, so that best practice can be promoted by the NAADS Secretariat;
- bring together, in synthesis form, reports from all locally conducted participatory
M&E;
- monitor progress towards achievement of the NAADS vision and the broader goals
of the PMA;
- show whether NAADS gender and poverty targets are being met; and
- advise District and Sub-county administrations on appropriate procedures for
service delivery M&E.
Mechanisms and Processes
The overriding objective of the M&E is to bring the disparate voices of men and
women farmers into the rural development process such that poverty may be reduced in
an effective and sustained manner. M&E must be done by competent persons in a timely
fashion using appropriate methodology and producing useful outputs in a well-managed
process. Each of these factors is discussed in turn:
- 74 -



Who -- At least half of the M&E teams will be drawn from the communities themselves
so as to increase the contextual relevance, participation and ownership for M&E in the
Farmers Committee. For purposes of both credibility and objectivity it is important that
some of the persons executing the PME be external to the community of beneficiary
farmers. These shall include at least one person competent in gender mainstreaming and
poverty targeting. The NAADS Secretariat will maintain a register of competent
organizations which are eligible to undertake PME. Sub-counties will invite eligible
organizations to bid for contracts to undertake PME. Before a contract is issued, the
selected organization will undergo a process of review by the Farmers Forum, and by
farmers groups at Parish and Village level. Contracts will for one year, renewable on
farmer group approval.
When -- In each District, the first PME exercise will take place at the outset of the
program, as districts enter, both to obtain baseline data and to assess the expectations of
the intended beneficiaries as program activities commence. Subsequent PME surveys will
take place on an annual basis. Given the small sample size, not expected to exceed 100,
of each beneficiary community, each PME should take no more than one month.
How -- The mechanisms for M&E will include:
- participatory monitoring and evaluation PME: the PME techniques/methodologies
used will include wealth ranking, one-on-one conversational interviews and gender
disaggregated focus group discussions;
- routine reporting by service providers, including Sub-county staff where they are
providing services directly as well as contracted service providers;
- supervision of contracts by Sub-county staff;
- technical audit of service provision by District staff;
- surveys commissioned at national, District or Sub-county level; and
- supervision visits by national staff and Board members to Districts, and by District
staff to Sub-counties.
What -- M&E will focus on progress towards the attainment of NAADS outputs at all
levels, using indicators appropriate to each level. The indicators shall be of bothoutputs
and inputs. The wider impact of NAADS on the performance of the agricultural sector
cannot easily be separated out from the overall PMA effort. To avoid duplication, the
impact assessment for the NAADS will be done through studies to monitor and evaluate
the PMA as a whole.
At national and District levels a minimum set of indicators and data to be reported
from the level below them will be specified. The remaining data will be collected through
surveys carried out under contract. At Sub-county level farmers in the Farmers Forum and
Sub-county Production Department staff will develop specific outputs related to each of
the five generic NAADS outputs as part of the planning process. In addition to data from
PME, contracts will require service providers to provide specified information, and to
keep records which can be audited by Sub-county and District staff. This will include a
written record of advice given, countersigned by clients, which will be subject to audit.
District staff will also make monitoring visits to the Sub-county.
- 75 -



At the local levels, monitoring will be done by the clients of the service, with the
help of professional researchers under contract to the Sub-county on behalf of the Farmers
Forum. Specific local outputs related to generic outputs 1, 2 and 3 will be set out in
service contracts. A limited set of indicators will be compiled from PME and other
sources to meet data needs at sub-county, district and national levels. PME will be backed
up by technical audits carried out by District Production Department staff, which will
confirm whether or not the technical quality of the service and the advice provided meets
acceptable standards. These standards will be set nationally by the NAADS Secretariat.
The NAADS outputs and proposed indicators are set out below.
M&E Outputs: The principal outputs will be reports. It is expected that these reports will
be discussed at four levels:
- in the parish and/or village, by a farmers group committee, and in Vilage/Parish
Forums;
- at the Sub-county, within the Farmers Forum and by the Council;
- at the District level, within the Farmers Forum and by the Council; and
- at the national, policy level, when aggregated with other PME reports.
Management of M&E: The community of farmers is to be the owner of this M&E
process. To assure this community ownership there shall be a farmers M&E committee
established which will manage and oversee the process. This committee shall be
composed of 3 farmers elected by the community -- at least one of whom shall be a
woman; and one who sits on the Farmers Forum; and one agricultural officer from the
Sub-county Administration. While the contract for the PME will be let at the Sub-county
level, it will be subject to approval and subsequent review by the M&E Committee.
M&E for Farmer Empowerment, Gender Mainstreaming and Poverty Targeting
Farmers access to and control of NAADS structures and processes that transform
their livelihood assets to the outcomes that they desire is the essence of farmer
empowerment. The M&E arrangements will provide the farmers with objective
information on the performance of service providers. Farmers will thus be in position to
make decisions about the approval of payments to service providers, and about whether
current contracts should be renewed. Reports from PME will be presented to
representative bodies at parish and village level and to the Farmers Forum at Sub-county
level for discussion. Indicators at all levels will bedis-aggregated by gender and category
of farmer in line with the principles of gender mainstreaming and poverty targeting. The
M&E processes will be guided by persons competent in gender mainstreaming and
poverty targeting. In all M&E surveys equal numbers of men and women will be
interviewed.
Program Outputs and M&E Indicators
The Program outputs and monitoring and evaluation indicators are fully described in
the logical framework chart in Appendix 1. Table 1, below, sets out the main stakeholder
roles in monitoring and evaluation. Table 2 shows the analysis of likely impact on
stakeholder interests. Table 3 presents the proposed NAADS national/District output
indicators.
- 76 -



Table 1   Stakeholder Roles in Monitoring and Evaluation
Stakeholder                    Roles in M&E                             Mechanisms
Producers:
commercial, and
commercial/market orientated
market orientated                 confirm satisfactory (or not) completion    signing contract
of contract                              completion form
take part in PME as interviewers     surveys
*   respond to requests for survey        stakeholder forum
information                               participatory
through representatives, contribute to  M&E
discussions in Farmer Forum
market + subsistence
subsistence
Men in farm households
Women in farm households
CBOs                                as service providers, maintain records  routine record
and collect data as required by contract and by keeping
standards                                 farmers forum
Local NGOs
International NGOs
Input dealers / stockists          respond to surveys                    surveys
contribute to discussions in stakeholder   farmers forum
for a
Local agro-processors
Traders/produce buyers
Elected LC members                 review/debate monitoring reports       Production
Committee
LC admin / finance staff            compile monitoring reports for        routine reporting
submission to LC                          summaries of
*   report LC data to national level     technical audit
take action in response to monitoring    reports
data
Sub-county extension staff         supervise contracts for service delivery   - field visits &
take action as appropriate in response to  reports; discussions
monitoring data                          with clients and
contractors
District extension staff            carry out technical audits and report  technical audit
results to sub-county and national levels
NAADS secretariat                   compile data reported from districts
commission surveys
supervision visits to districts
Universities, research              carry out surveys and PME            contract
organizations, consultancy firms
MAAIF                         Overall Monitoring of Program             field visits and
technical audit
reports
OPM                            Oversight                                Reports
- 77 -



Table 2 Stakeholder Analysis: Likely Impact of NAADS on Stakeholder Interests
Stakeholder               Likely Effects (+, =, -)
Producers:
* commercial, and         =/-may lose free access to publicly funded extension; but many already have
commercial/market         their own arrangements for advice, e.g. purchasing bodies in export crop
orientated                sector
market orientated        +private (contracted) providers likely to have or develop better understanding
of markets; partial cost-recovery will ensure greater accountability and
responsiveness to clients
market + subsistence     +
subsistence              +greater influence, through fora, on extension planning; contracts specifically
for provision of service to this sector are likely to be given
Men in farm households    =
Women in farm households   + specific contracts to deliver advisory service to women can be given
Organizations:
CBOs                      +greater influence over extension (through stakeholder fora, etc.); some may
bid for contracts for service delivery
Local NGOs                +/-loss of public extension staff as subsidized resource; but opportunities to
win contracts for service delivery
International NGOs        =
Private Sector:
Input dealers / stockists  +increased sales; improved knowledge (if they are given training to upgrade
their performance as channel of information and advice to farmers)
Local agro-processors     +increased / more regular supplies
Traders/produce buyers    +increased / more regular supplies
LC Officials and Staff:
Elected LC members        + greater democratic influence on service provision
LC admin / finance staff  - workload increase from administering many contracts
Sub-county extension staff   +/- loss of job security; but options for jobs in private sector or as independent
advisers; new roles for those staying in public sector
District extension staff  +/
- some retrenchment; new responsibilities
Others:
Universities              + potential contracts (training, evaluation surveys, specialist service
provision)
Urban consumers           +improved food security and stable prices
NARO                      +/-improved linkages, leading to more effective targeting of research;
improved uptake of research outputs; but some perceived threat to the
outreach role of NARO
Donors                    +improved co-ordination of approaches; efficiency in development program
through joint/shared roles
- 78 -



Table 3     Proposed NAADS National/District Output Indicators
Outputs          Programs            Indicators                                           Type
Appropriate      Advisory and        1.   No. Sub-counties with extension plan            Process
Information        2.   No. Sub-counties contracting out advisory services   Process
advice to         Services to        3.   No. Sub-counties with satisfactory audited activities  Process
farmers,          Farmers            4.   No. private advisors                            Process
5.   Proportion of private advisers in total         Process
provided by                          6.   No. private provider trainees achieving satisfying  Process
capable private                      standards in NAADS sponsored training
providers                        7.   Total % farmers getting advice, in:
providers                            *    Subsistence farmers                             Service
Market-oriented farmers                         delivery
Commercial farmers
8.   Total %farmers satisfied with services, in:
Subsistence farmers                             Service
Market-oriented farmers                         delivery
Commercial farmers
Appropriate       Research and       9.   No. research contracts                          Process
technologies      Technology         10.  Proportion of research contracts to             Process
available        Development                private providers
11.  No. SC plans including research contracts       Process
12.  No. audited satisfactory research contracts     Process
13.  Total % farmers satisfied with services, in:    Service
Subsistence farmers                             delivery
Market-oriented farmers
Commercial farmers
Appropriate and   Institutional      14.  NAADS Board established                         All
capable           Development        15.  NAADS Secretariat established and staffed (%age    process
structures at all                    staffing level)
levels,                              16.  No. eligible Districts
accountable to                       17.  No. eligible Sub-counties
farmers                              18.  No. registered Farmers Organizations
19.  No. operational Farmers Forums at:
District level
SC level
20.  Performance of planning, budgeting and reporting
systems
Quality,         NAADS               21.  Regulations and standards for service delivery  All
efficiency &      management and    established                                           process
effectiveness    monitoring          22.  No./ proportion Districts complying with
assured                             regulations and standards
23. No./ proportion SC complying with regulations and
standards
24. No. service providers registered
25. No. technical audits
________________  26.  Proportion satisfactory technical audits.
- 79 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Annual Planning Timetable for NAADS Stakeholders (Internal Government)
Month                                       Activities                                    NAADS    Districts        Sub-
national                Counties
Oct.        Starting point for Medium Term Expenditure Framework preparation (MFPED
lead).
xx
Update of NAADS multi-annual financing plan and NAADS conditional grant
planning guidelines. Preparation of eligible Districts multi- annual budget ceilings
for NAADS.
Nov         Submission of draft NAADS multi-annual financing plan to MFPED.                 XX
LG Budget Framework Paper meeting (organized by MFPED, all Districts).          XX          XX
Presentation of Districts ceilings (3 years, I st year = indicative budget for next
budget year) including general Conditional Grant guidelines (MFPED) and NAADS
guidelines and ceilings.
XX
Identification of NAADS matching contribution and integration in NAADS District
envelope.
Dec.       Work planning and budgeting of national level programs.                          XX          XX
Preparation and communication of annual NAADS budget ceilings for Sub-
Counties.                                                                                   XX
Sub-County administration, Production/ Development Committee and Farmers' For                            XX
a meeting - identification of priorities for next budget year and work plan.
Jan        Districts preparation of LG BFP and draft work plans, including NAADS work plan              XX
for District level activities.
XX
Sub-County Budget Conferences. Outputs including draft Sub-County NAADS
work plan and budget within ceilings and in line with farmers' priorities.
XX          XX
Draft Sub-County NAADS work plan and budget submitted to District Production
Committee for joint analysis.                                                   XX          XX
First Regional LG BFP workshop organized by MFPED - Review of Districts
allocations of funds to Sub-Counties and of initial work plans for District level  XX
activities.
Discussion of NAADS envelope with MFPED. Adjustments to NAADS multi-
annual financing plan if required.
Feb.       Overall MTEF submitted for Cabinet approval, including NAADS multi-annual
financing plan (submitted in November and discussed/ adjusted as required) -
MFPED
XX          XX
Continuation of NAADS work plans and budgets preparation. Integration of draft
Sub-Counties work plans and budgets.
District Budget Conferences. Outputs including draft integrated (District + SC)             XX
NAADS work plans and budgets for each eligible District.
- 80 -



Mont   Activities                                                                   NAADS        Districts     Sub-
h                                                                                   national                 Countie
s
Marc    Second Regional LGBFP workshop. Review of first draft integrated Districts work  XX        XX
h        plans and budgets.
XX
Consolidation of draft District work plans and budgets into draft aggregated national
NAADS work plan and budget. Preparation of indicative integrated annual work
plan and budget.
Cabinet approved MTEF forwarded to Government agencies, as basis for final
preparation of forthcoming annual budget
April    Districts submission of final draft work plans for NAADS Conditional Grants to  XX        XX
NAADS Secretariat.
May      Analysis of Districts final draft NAADS work plans.                           XX           X
June    Approval of Districts NAADS work plans.                                        XX          XX
Finalization of NAADS budget and forward planning for submission as part of   XX          XX           XX
Governmentl LG annual budget.
Readings of budgets (central/ Districts).
July     Alterations to work plans and budgets as required (based on final approved budgets).  XX  XX           XX
Consolidation of final (Parliament approved) NAADS work plans and budgets into  XX
NAADS financing plan.
- 81 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Environmental Screening Note
A.   NAADS Objectives and Summary of Interventions
1.   The goal of NAADS is increased security of rural livelihoods with sustainable improvements in
agricultural productivity and household incomes through increasing commercialization of farming. The
purpose is that farmers apply improved husbandry and management practices, and identify and solve their
technical and marketing problems in a more constructive and effective way. To this end, theProgramme
will support transformation of the existing publicly delivered unified extension service to a decentralized,
largely farmer-owned and private sector provided plurality of advisory services that will increase farmers'
access to relevant information and capacity building support.
2.   Of particular interest for the purpose of this Note is the Advisory and Information Services to
Farmers component. Among the activities contemplated under NAADS are participatory needs
assessment, farmer forum establishment, group mobilization; training and capacity building for farmer
groups and local government in NAADS specific work planning, budgeting, administration and financial
management; provision for routine on-farm advice, skill development and capacity building, and
participatory monitoring and evaluation; limited goods and materials funding for demonstrations and
establishment of farmer based services; legal and other professional advice for groups/farmer forums and
local government on establishment of farmer institutions and contract management. The content of annual
workplans will be decided through the participatory planning process, therefore it is difficult to predict the
impact of advisory services on farming practices. However, some changes in farming practices may have
negative environmental or social implications.
B.   Legal and Institutional Framework
3.   Following the National Environment Statute, 1995, the National Environmental Management
Authority (NEMA) was created. NEMA is charged with responsibility for co-ordinating the formulation
and application of government's environmental policy, strategies, legislation and standards, ensuring the
integration of environmental concerns in overall national planning, promoting environmental awareness,
and reviewing and approving environmental impact assessments. NEMA may delegate any of these
functions to a lead sectoral agency. In addition, in each District, a District Environmental Committee,
Local Environment Committees and a District Environment Officer have been appointed to exercise the
functions of NEMA. The Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations, 1998, require developers of
projects including large scale agriculture, use of new pesticides, introduction of new crops and animals,
and use of fertilizers, to submit a project brief in a prescribed format to NEMA. The Authority in turn
forwards each project brief to the appropriate sectoral lead agency. An environmental impact assessment
(EIA) has to be undertaken by the developer where the lead agency is of the view that the project may or
will have an impact on the environment. The EIA has to be undertaken by experts approved by NEMA.
The level of EIA required varies according to the nature, scale and possible effects of the project, with the
costs of the EIA borne by the developer. NEMA has produced detailed technical and operational
guidelines to carry out EIA. These guidelines lay down clear procedures and institutional responsibilities
for the environmental analysis and review process.
4.   The National Bureau of Standards is the lead agency for the formulation and implementation of
standards and for monitoring the quality of all agricultural inputs (i.e. seeds, fertilizers, feeds, agro-
chemicals, and veterinary products) to ensure that use of these inputs will have no detrimental effect on
the environment. The Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries (MAAIF) may issue
regulations with regard to the control of the quality of inputs and products marketed commercially in the
country, providing these are referenced to the national standards.
- 82 -



C.   Environmental Classification
5.   In view of the Program's proposed components and expected potential impacts, it is conside2d that
NAADS will have limited negative environmental implications. According to the definitions used by the
international development banks (ADB, IFAD and World Bank) it can be classified as category B. The
various interventions proposed are expected to create localized environmental and social impacts of both
a positive and adverse nature. Both are discussed in the following two sections.
D.   Potentially Positive Impacts
6.   The Program has the potential to deliver an impact at both the socio-economic and environmental
levels, to Uganda as a whole and to Uganda's agricultural based communities in particular. These must be
taken into account and balanced against the potential adverse impacts of the Program. Specifically, it is
expected to result in increased agricultural production and productivity, better husbandry of already
cultivated land thereby reversing degradation and reducing pressure to open up marginal land, a larger
proportion of commercially oriented farmers, and a higher proportion of farm output marketed. This will
lead to sustainable increases in incomes and food security for poor rural households, which will in turn
result in:
improved health and nutritional status of poor farmers, leading to increased farmer productivity
increased capacity to invest in agricultural and non-agricultural income generating activities
a more long-term view as to the value, and more sustainable use, of the natural resource base
*    increased resilience to the impact of external shocks (e.g. drought and flaoding) on food security
and health
*    reduced levels of migration from the rural areas to congested urban centers to seek employment
*    improved social cohesion as farmer groups and associations work together to shape their economic
destiny.
E.   Potentially Adverse Impacts and Mitigating Measures
7.   The primary groups that may be adversely affected by the Program are rural communities in
general and smallholder farmers in particular. The major adverse impacts that could impact on these
groups are discussed below.
Environmental Degradation
8.   The main source of agricultural growth in Uganda has been expansion of area under cultivation.
While area expansion will continue for some time, land is becoming scarcer and more marginal for
expansion and will not be able to keep pace with rural population growth. Moreover, past expansion has
been at the cost of degradation of many arable lands in both coastal and plains areas and of the middle and
upper catchment areas; and damage from over and illegal grazing and burning of range and brush lands.
As a result, land and labor productivity have declined, production patterns have shifted towards relatively
low-value food crops, and real incomes are well below levels achieved in the 1970s. Based on this
analysis, the first pillar of Government's strategy focuses on increasing agricultural productivity, by
transforming Uganda's low-input low-output agriculture into modern science-based farming capable of
sustaining growth in the sector and raising farmers' incomes. At farm level, this requires better access to
improved technologies and modern inputs, and increases in farmer know-how. The second pillar of the
strategy focuses upon helping production patterns shift from low-value staples to higher-value
commodities. The strategy seeks to build and expand upon smallholders existing, albeit partial,
involvement in production for the market by helping them to produce a variety of higher value products in
order to increase their household incomes. Some of the measures necessary to pursue this strategy are
similar or complementary to those required to raise productivity. At farm level, they include acquiring the
knowledge of how to produce and market higher-value outputs, and better access to the required inputs
and outlets for such products.
- 83 -



9.   To mitigate the potentially adverse impacts of agricultural intensification, theProgram will ensure
through contract specifications that the service providers promote best practices in land management and
water and vegetation conservation. For example, technical packages for application in upland areas will
discourage use of land over 18% slope for cultivation and include conservation techniques such as
vegetative contour barriers and water harvesting bunds.
Agro-chemical Pollution
10.  Although use of agro-chemicals is low in Uganda, the Program will facilitate intensification of
smallholder agricultural production systems, resulting in increased use of fertilizers and other agro-
chemicals. Of concern is incorrect handling and application, which has the potential to be hazardous to
both human and animal populations from direct contamination or pollution of soils or drinking water
sources. To mitigate potential adverse impacts the following should be incorporated in annual work plans:
Support training of input suppliers in the precautionary measures required for the handling,
labeling and application of agro-chemicals under field conditions. Include advice on appropriate
pesticide stock management procedures and record keeping practices; appropriate pesticide storage
facilities to minimize human and environmental hazard; appropriate use of protection equipment; use
and cleaning of application equipment; and simple emergency actions to be taken in case of
agrochemical spillage and/or contamination. Input suppliers will be expected to pass on this
information to their client farmers.
Support training of farmers and advisory service providers in appropriate use and handling of agro-
chemicals. Service providers will be expected to include these issues in their training of farmer
groups and associations.
Promotion of both reduced input production systems and avoidance of the use of pesticides
whenever practicable by using alternative pest management methods, including a best mix of
biological or cultural controls.
A Pest Management Plan was prepared as part of the Environmental Analysis for the National
Agricultural Advisory Service Program (NAADS) in Uganda. The Pest Management Plan aims to ensure
that pest management activities under the NAADS will be sustainable and that health and environmental
risks of pesticide use are minimized; and that the capacity for implementation of Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) and regularly control of pesticides will be strengthened.
F.   Implementation of Mitigation Measures
11.  Responsibility for establishment and implementation of environmental/social monitoring and
evaluation will rest with the Planning Manager in the NAADS Secretariat. The Program will be
implemented in accordance with national environmental and social legislation with consultation with
NEMA. Environmental requirements and procedures will be institutionalized in the Program's annual
planning, contracting, budgeting and reviewing mechanisms.
Annual Work Plan and Budget Process
12.  Annual work planning and contract specifications will take into account environmental issues by
ensuring that:
environmental impact assessment activities are appropriate for the scale of contracts envisaged
service providers are adequately trained in the mitigation and monitoring of potential adverse
environmental effects and enhancing benefits
* farmers and rural traders receive adequate training in the handling and use of agro-chemicals and in
the case of the traders, the need for them to train customers at the point of sale
* packaging and storage requirements are specified, and complied with, for agrochemical use
supported by the Program, and where necessary storage is upgraded.
- 84 -



Contract Specifications
13.  Contracts will include where necessary environmental clauses setting out the contractor's
obligations and responsibilities appropriate to the services to be provided and will include avenues of
redress and penalties for non-conformity with the Program's environmental mitigation requirements.
Specific aspects affecting the environment will be included in the terms of reference for studies and
conditions of contract for the procurement of works, goods, and services. In particular:
* specific reference will be made to any aspects of the studies or civil works that may have adverse
environmental affects
* attention will be given to appropriate measures to be taken for example in handling dangerous
chemicals and measures to contain pollution
* environmental contractual requirements will be included in annual work plans and budgets.
Monitoring
14.  Monitoring and record keeping of conformity with environmental contractual obligations will rest
with each contracted service provider. To demonstrate conformity with environmental obligations and
responsibilities each contractor will be required to maintain up-to-date written records for presentation to
and inspection by the NAADS Secretariat and/or designated alternates at local government level. This
monitoring arrangement will ensure that all potential adverse environmental impacts are identified, and
mitigation measures taken in a timely manner to negate potentially adverse situations.
Responsibilities for Processes
15.  The NAADS Secretariat and in particular the Planning Manager and the Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer will supervise and monitor compliance with all environmental requirements in accordance with
contract specifications. The NAADS Secretariat and or designated local government will meet with the
contractors to review non-conformance with contract requirements and determine remedial actions to be
taken. Objectives of meetings will be to review the overall status of contract implementation, determine
any required changes in design or implementation arrangements needed to ensure achievement of the
contracts and legislative environmental compliance.
G.  Next Steps
16.  The NAADS Task Force Secretariat will prepare a program brief in accordance with the prescribed
guidelines and submit the brief to NEMA. Based on the analysis of the lead agency determined by
NEMA, the NAADS Secretariat will arrange for an EIA by approved experts. It is envisaged that this
would take the form of an environmental impact review of the NAADS core document. The EIA would
highlight potential negative impacts, recommend appropriate mitigating measures and the arrangements
required to ensure that environmental screening is institutionalized in the planning process, and that
mitigating measures are implemented. The final EIA will contain a Pest Management Plan.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Legal and Regulatory Issues
Tendering and Contracting
1.   Empowerment of farmers is a major objective of NAADS. To this end, NAADS will provide
farmers with the opportunity to own and control advisory services and to take the lead in decisions
regarding the allocation of funds. To access advisory services in a cost-efficient manner farmers, will
need to organize themselves into common interest groups and to elect a hierarchy of representative
bodies (called Farmer Forums under NAADS) at the sub-county, district and national levels. The
capacity of these groups to demand services and to manage their affairs and finances, including
contracting of advisory services will need to be developed. Initially, however, contracting of advisory
services will be done by local government in consultation with farmers and their representatives.
2.   A key step towards farmer empowerment and of further devolution of responsibility for
development service provision is that the tendering process for contract award should be undertaken
mainly at Sub-county level. The established procedures for Sub-county involvement in tendering
through the Sub-county Investment Committee and the Sub-county Chief appear generally
satisfactory, but with two main exceptions, namely that:
the assistance provided by the District Tender Board needs to be better defined and more
readily available to guide assessment and facilitate processing and award; and
the ceilings of Sub-county jurisdiction -- at UGSh 1 million (USD 660) for works and UGSh
0.5 million (USD 330) for goods and services -- are totally inadequate for NAADS purposes:
service provision and other contracts at Sub-county and lower levels could range from UGSh 3
to 40 million annually -- USD 2,000 to 30,000.
It follows that the procurement ceilings at Sub-county level need to be raised accordingly. For this
purpose it would be useful to refer to the World Bank Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement.
3.   Some NAADS supported activities will be contracted at the District level to be implemented
District-wide; for example contracting of a service provider to conduct multi4ocational on-farm
testing of emerging technologies which respond to priorities expressed by the district-level Farmer
Forum. A multi-annual or even an annual contract could exceed the established procurement ceiling
for Districts. It is proposed that the procurement ceiling for district government's be increased to USD
50,000.
4.   The Local Government Act does not recognize farmer groups or their representative
associations as legal entities that could have jurisdiction over disbursement of public funds and enter
into contracts. An amendment to the Act is required entitling farmer forums or other farmer
institutions to make decisions on resource allocation.
5.        Potential service providers include for profit and not-for-profitparastatal, commercial
and non-governmental organizations. As far as possible procurement of services should be
competitive. It is recognized that in open competition not-for-profit organizations could crowd out
commercial service providers such as consulting companies. Legal advice is required to clarify the
rules for competitive bidding, and to propose changes if necessary to relevant legislation in order to
ensure a level playing field.
- 86 -



Establishment of NAADS Board and Secretariat
6.   A NAADS Board will be constituted and charged with the role of advising and giving guidance
on Program policy and strategy issues and facilitating, supervising and supporting the NAADS
Secretariat. The Board will comprise the following representation: farmers and Farmer Forums, 8;
agro-industry, 2; Local Government Authorities Association, 1; MAAIF, MFPED, OPM, MGL, and
NARO, 1 each; and the NGO/academic sector, 1. The Board will elect a Chairperson from among its
members and will normally meet twice per year. The Program Director will be the Secretary to the
Board.
7.   The NAADS Secretariat will form the Program management; it will consist of the Program
Director; Financial Controller; Administration and Contract Manager; Planning Manager; Monitoring
and Evaluation Officer, Agriculture and Extension Manager; and the Community Development
Manager. The members of the Secretariat will hold the responsibility for the planning, direction,
support and management of operations in their respective field of competence and in this they will be
given a wide measure of discretion and authority. The staff of the Secretariat will be contracted on
commercially competitive terms.
8.   To establish the NAADS Board and Secretariat as a statutory parastatal organization will
require parliamentary legislation. This legislation should take into account precedents such as NARO,
and the Coffee, Dairy, and Cotton Development Authorities.
District and Sub-County Participation Agreements
9.        In order to participate in the NAADS Program, Districts and Sub-Counties will have to
meet participation criteria and will be required to sign program participation agreements. Districts
which meet participation criteria will be able to sign a Participation Agreement with the NAADS
Secretariat, while Sub-Counties which meet participation criteria will be able to sign a Participation
Agreement with their respective District.
The criteria under which Districts will be eligible to participate in NAADS are the following:
*   Meet conditions under Local Government Financial and Accounting Regulations 1998 issued
under Section 79 of the Local Governments Act 1997, Government of Uganda (capable
functional staffing are in the Finance and Production Departments, the Planning Unit and the
Internal Audit Section, or that a clear commitment is made to out-source, through private
contract or hire arrangements, the skills to undertake: technical audit of service providers and
supervision of contracts).
*   Formulate District PMA plan.
*   Inclusion in the District's 3-year rolling development/investment plan provision of funds for
NAADS district counterpart contribution.
*   Take steps towards transfer of existing advisory services field staff to the private sector.
*   Establish a District NAADS Program Bank Account.
*   Sign participation and conditional grant agreement with NAADS secretariat.
*   Annual Work program reviewed and agreed with NAADS Secretariat.
*   For participation of any district in NAADS in each year beyond it's first year of participation,
district farmers fora legally established and participating in management of NAADS at the district
level.
The criteria under which Sub-Counties will be eligible to participate in NAADS are the following:
*   The District in which the Sub-County is located must be a participating District
*   Meet conditions specified under the Local Govt Act of 1997
*   Commit funds for NAADS subcounty counterpart contribution within annual workplan and
budget, included in overall district workplan and budget.
*   Establish a Sub-County NAADS Program Bank Account.
*   Sign NAADS participation and conditional grant agreement with district
*   Annual Work program reviewed and eligibility of funding verified with district NAADS
coordinator, and second year and after with NAADS district farmer fora.
- 87 -



*   For participation of any subcounty in NAADS in each year beyond it's first year of
participation, subcounty farmers' for a: (a) legally established; (b) certified as able to procure
and account for NAADS funds to directly contract advisory services.
Farmer Institutions Recognition and Registration
9.   Part of farmer empowerment is to have their groups, associations and Farmer Forums become
legal entities that can be considered as partners by Sub-counties and Districts and that can eventually
receive and manage funds themselves and have contract service providers be accountable to them.
There are several options of instruments for farmer groups to be so registered, viz.: the Companies
Act; the Partnership Act; the Co-operative Societies Act; the Business Names Registration Act; and
the Non Governmental Organization Registration Statute. The two last are probably the most
appropriate for groups at Sub-county level, because procedures for registration are straightforward and
they allow a community based organization, CBO, or Association to have a bank account and to be
legally recognized.
10.  Legal assistance is required to clarify best options for registration for groups or institutions of
various types. It is also desirable that the registration procedure be simplified for NAADS purposes so
that recourse to legal advice is not necessary in most cases.
Contracts
11.  Legal documents -- as memorandums of agreement or contracts -- will be required at numerous
levels of the Program. These will include contracts of employment of staff and Board members;
official agreements between the Ministry of Local Government and Districts, between Districts and
Sub-counties; between Sub-counties and Farmer Forums or institutions; and between the Secretariat,
Farmer Forums, Districts and Sub-counties and service providers, in some cases as tripartite
agreements. Legal agreements and memorandums of understanding will need to spell out
responsibilities of each party regarding co-financing arrangements, minimum standards, inputs and
outputs, implementation arrangements, performance parameters and penalties and issues of mediation
or arbitration in case of dispute.
12.  In many regards, these contract documents will be breaking new ground in the coltext of
public/private sector relationships, for instance:
in the terms and conditions of Secretariat staff and Board appointees;
in re-defining the roles and responsibilities, including those for information flow, supervision
and support from Central and Local Government line agencies and parastatals;
in setting standards and ensuring compliance with selection and performance criteria; and
in establishing linkages between Government and the private and NGO sectors.
13.  The format and content of these documents will be crucial to the smooth operation of the Program.
They will be designed with professional legal and technical assistance with input from the Task Force, the
Secretariat, and the Donor Group, and will form part of the implementation manual for NAADS. They
will follow the precedents of similar, parastatal, privatized industry or commercial practice, with
adaptation to the public/private but essentially ground breaking nature of the NAADS Program, and to a
common documentation design that will facilitate their production, simplify monitoring and allow easy
compilation of records and summary reports.
- 88 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
The Transition from Agricultural Extension to NAADS
Launching of the NAADS programme is targeted for January 1, 2001 with the establishment of the
Interim Secretariat. Pending enactment of the NAADS Organization Bill, Govemment will establish a
NAADS Interim Secretariat and Steering Committee. Staff for the Interim Secretariat will be
competitively recruited at market rates on fixed term contracts. The staffing will be in accordance with
the proposals for the statutory NAADS Secretariat. Each staff member, will be given a six-month
probationary period, followed by renewable two-year contracts. Appointments to the Interim Steering
Committee by the Minister of MAAIF will reflect the stakeholder representation proposed for the
statutory NAADS Board. Whereas the staff of the Interim Secretariat will continue once the NAADS
Secretariat becomes legally recognized as a government parastatal, appointments of farmer
representatives to the NAADS Board will change in accordance with the bottom-up nominations made
through the Sub-county and District Farmer Forums.
Over a period of two years, different working arrangements will be tested in trailblazing - building from
an initial six districts and twelve sub-counties (two from each district) and adding districts and sub-
counties at a pace to be determined by the experience in the initial areas. In particular, the following will
be tested:
*    Contracting modalities
- direct contracting between a Farmer Forum/registered farmer group and a service provider
- direct contracting between a Farmer Forum/registered farmer goup, sub-county government and
a service provider
- direct contracting between a Farmer Forum/registered farmer group, district government and a
service provider
*    Access by advisers to high quality technical information
*    Capacity-building for advisers in technical areas including effective use of information and
communication technologies
Options for forming Farmer Forums
- making use of existing farmer interest groups at community level
- working in sub-counties where no or few farmer interest groups exist
*    Mechanisms and tools to ensure inclusion of poor, women and other vulnerable groups.
Trailblazing districts and sub-counties will be chosen according to criteria designed to reflect variety
with respect to the capacity of local governments to manage the program as well as with regard to the
nature of local agricultural economy and agro-ecological zones. Selection criteria will also include
compliance with PAF/LGDP standards with respect to financial management and reporting capacity, as
well as willingness to accept NAADS specific conditions. In particular, in compliance with PMA
principles, NAADS support will be contingent on districts agreeing to privatize the delivery of advisory
services in the participating sub-counties, existing government advisory staff located at the sub-county
level will be given six months notice. NAADS will finance the severance entitlements as well as
orientation and capacity building for the affected staff to facilitate their transition to the private sector.
During the notice period the affected government staff may be co-opted by the service providers that
will be competitively contracted for the start up activities and the delivery of technical assistance to
farmer groups. After the notice period, the affected staff will be free to seek employment with existing
private service providers or to organize themselves as potential service providers. To avoid
inconsistencies with PMA principles, and to minimize the cost of privatization, further recruitment of
public extension workers will cease, even in districts not yet participating in the program.
- 89 -



Additional
Annex No.: 16
Organogram
Figure 1. National Agricultural Advisory Services Programme Organogrom - Staffing Chart
,*3 '2< -------- ~~~~~~~~.......... .., C
Ot1Adinistrygtati*n
3      E        t~ ~~~~~~- Preoduction Department           ............................i | 
Admi nistration
IcEcap agb.nof Ike Nogti.so EooPoducionceparmin
. 1 -~~~~~~Other Departments 
Li.sa.f.t!-ritysw.r.biliyfo, NAADSopieUto..
Lisa of Lka.. lal ctb s,1lcnino ad anise ctrad facilli-it}                                                    F-
Lisa of mpwnMIalla
- 90 -



. ..                        ..m
'          I'                            _  _  _  _ _                                I'
....................  ...................... ...........
1 W TWi  tSt- i tffS!  i4!-t  tsg1                            o~~~~~~






MAP SECTION






IBRD 311 32
30M                                              32                                               34M                                               36'
54',,'                                            UGANDA
oO Io      S                             S U D A N                                             *''                    NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY
-A4                                                                                     /                /,/'  *)_SERVICES PROGRAM
e,-                           ~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH INSTITUTES:
N ,   \ To ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0KAWANDA AGRICULTURAL
bLoroMpioi                                                                              e    NAMULONGE AGRICULTURAL AND ANIMAL PRODUCTION
0Podib    Noo                                                         9   SERERE AGRICULTURAL AND ANIMAL PRODUCTION
~~JADJUMANI  KiIgunO  MotH   -                                               9  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORESTRY (AT BULINDI(
/;     KA0    T I                                                                                                        9   LIVESTOCK HEALTH [AT TORORO(
DEMOCRATIC9t                              \   A G Uule LU                         XKzdo,/                                 9   FISHERIES (AT JINJA)
D EM  O C RA TIC             Y A    In8tO  Xcahp'   r     Kib  J L    U /                                      \  j- .      b                       0    FOOD   SCIENCE  AND   TECHNOLOGY   (AT  KAMPALA)
\,Ueppi                    G;l                9                                 s                                0 go AdWg .~ 4 \ O    MUARIK (AT KABANYOLO)
REPUBLIC                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
OF  CONGO P U B LC    /- GoL          * *                                                                                     '1srH   <   Durznga  , _   vM roh  OUTREACH CENTERS (ZAROC(:
,a                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOROTO
O'                  J                   UD: N */<  6  tt  (<\  j  -gRO  4  \} @ SERERE
- 2/ ^   '   /   $   M ;  5  1  N   D  I   /   j X  N o        6  P  K A mA i rT   A   K   ( g j  N o o i b L k N  uA o o c d o i 0 k   ( 3 )  B U L I N D I               2 '
Ki.ndngo,      0u,h                                                                                  IKULWE
7    /  Rodoto  Inn  >~~~~~~'  ORdoki              04                                    (35) ~~~~~KACH-WEKANO
0V               *          oid          ro  Pot Moko               S 0N B 0IAGT
04o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0K
<B   j  ar,2} 4>QNga R L93/  ,Y"    <,   KrmmxoKI(sro '~ N  yE  QUOMBO  B                                                            PRIMARY ROADS
OGA   KA    1.11\        B             A                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
Ki              UWER'Ob w  w   I  1aA J>ff / p   !  KA   !     !  j                                   . DISTRICT CAPITALS
0,  Q~ .Wnn t,NATIONAL CAPITAL
RuBshuru 4i \>bu.,m @ .,t            S    A I  m _d.j                                                                                                   DISTRICT - a k e  BOUNDARIES
EU   (  *~~~ To Eun,gon-no              -INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES
Rutse < '' ; TA N  A NI                    A                                          ,, : ThewojanK E N Y A
KamsSrenn                                        KV M  A                               i
KA0 BS  EN(              A  >                       3A   A                                    _
0.  mpnd. ~     ~    ~     Nooo                l.     Hi(n
ABULE.....                                                                      Iemo  a roto b h 
K.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo  og  nnlN  oIRo 
m&k' I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ohooooclnodnrio,n
L   -',   -'~~~~~~~~~
oa             LANGALA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALAT20






IBRD 31137
30-                                                  32                                                  34 /.                                                  36-
o  sLo     los         150                  S   U    D    A    N                                    7       )
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                   U    A    D
K .   -'   '>   -  -' '--N/                            -<                            NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
t~~' 9;{   j7';Loy ,-kt                   McdiOp    ,                ~~~~~~~~Kobon !                      ADVISORY SERVICES
.oooYumbe                                     Pd,ob.    Noc         .  
Lcdonso      Adjunr                     KiguB                                  LoRgn0                                         PROGRAM
c      uo                                        A 'A                                    Koiloi"'
.\   rd.Auc   t16    ,i                 sWAobc          b  0oho
DEMOCRATIC                            '     - C. "' K'~\-SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
)O    Tjb  Cc          m  ',   1                                  oi  Ad`F    B" DISTRICT CAPITALS
R E P U B L I C          1-a    oC:t              us'         Lorcbili  _        o      Ko                                                                   *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
OF  CON GO                ci&      iebbi Nkt h c I .                r\                                        ""              a       .CMoro                          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Jf                                                      Li,    Aloc PonAoio    ,                                                 ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0uis  0              .S-)-  S             iSL,ra  0AIo'
)        ~              ~~~~~~~ K'o
-20               ,  //   g       IQAS   D'          9     >        {_       jSso  OAmuri:             s   Nobilouk   AmublOk                                                                          2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'tOri    ablBc
MAS~~~'JD1  ~~ ~1            L.-                            6AtbVK o'
/            /         K KryondenMo    :Plbrt A .            a           SNtk                                                          T O-ppo  K.. d
"   ~~~  V   ~~~  ocro  5                   SO~~~~~~~OIA.0  Op4ro               J                            Desi0,r Unit of The World BankpN,;~ Uit 1 T. W,)d8-1
e,                                            N.ma >     ,r  L L- iw *        His''-id"[     caS                                       This mopsproducedrby-he
14            Hoinno (                                                                                                                                          A.-;Q   7  n ayte rfurronsono
>'.5_y              -                 o   .       >Nco-rMa  Af             OSmn-       5 Kc                 -    -, 'S~>the toound=oris, colors dencorinotions
(>                                                                                                      Kafl,A        p6ohore                   this np donor rply. on th, port of
4 HOIMA                                                                              3   u. thWod Bak Group, any juentq
Ks/f  7          --A,                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~j0Siroko 0~~~t~IogL oKg  K-.Khueb.s-          o the oosou of ary seriton, or
(.C   t:   )  's~~~~~~~                                        POIliOS                                                          onp endorsement or occeptorce of~~~~P*  S.k.-y  -pt- o
)KIEfOGA                                               -No               L6      p                                      suchboundarias.
Euedibu01o . ForlPorIaiE5   i<                                          0 J M' \.L* .wckbunsi  Koua. rgd    (   f   X
LI Klonr   KABAROIE 011r 7                .          cKoorJo!        Nwyoso  o,  \iQ            90 GiI0%      ;
A _ 0 >; +-> / K E N  Y  A  g  ,_v7  X  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~   E  KNO'4~
*~~~~e ampo III. ~ .MUII
IS  KAS?t   J              MBARAR                          Koon Krn   MprpoL9    _-aIrli K; E.                                            N *     A    _-/    
o  >Kobp     ri *s        do          *       R BAB ~ K A I MP               L a k oir'e I  V A L E  o N  i,
EB K.L%                 V              /cL,<!z  c.,M b     K               -K.-i L      i                   i                           - ye
gISORO,KABALLv ~   KABROt .K66).
M W  A N     N D E.                      ,KONO
K  S  3L                                                       K A              I                           I
RUKUNGIRTh9C                   RAKAI                          Lake! Victor,~~~~~~~~~~~~M  I!
0.                                       SEu.ABUAL                                                                                                                                                                           0
G-KO0LP`    o~ 
S/ 
K~~~                                                   TANZANI
USHENYI  MBARARA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Masakg~~~~~~~~~AUAYI



