Report No. PID8313
Project Name                     Uganda-National Agricultural Advisory (@)
Services Program
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Agricultural Extension; AG - Agency Reform
Project ID                       UGPE44695
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE,
ANIMAL INDUSTRIES, AND FISHERIES
PO Box 102, Entebbe, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. Silim Nahdy,
NAADS Secretariat
Tel: (256 41) 34 54 52
Email: ascimO4@infocom.co.ug
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 9, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 11, 2000
Projected Board Date             February 15, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Agriculture in Uganda has grown steadily (over 4% per annum) for over ten
years. The recent growth has accompanied a profound re-orientation of the
public sector's role in the agricultural economy. This re-orientation
included significant liberalization of the agricultural economy and
complementary institutional reforms which down-sized, privatized, and
decentralized public agricultural institutions. While the recent growth
provides momentum for rural development in Uganda, it builds from a very
low base. Real agricultural GDP in the early 1990s had yet to re-attain
the level achieved in 1970. The real incomes of rural people today are
still well below their 1970s levels. The main sources of agricultural
growth over the past ten years - expansion of area under cultivation, and
a substantial improvement of incentives for farmers to produce - have
largely been played out as sources of sustained growth. While area
expansion will continue for some time, land is becoming scarcer and
expansion will not be able to keep pace with population growth in rural
areas. Even if it could, the growth impact of expansion would diminish
over time as it is primarily marginal and remote lands which are available
for exploitation. Consequently, area expansion by itself will not even be
sufficient to maintain rural per capita incomes at their present levels.
The other source of recent growth in the sector, improvement in the
incentive regime, came from the liberalization of the economy. Further
gains can still be made through improving the functioning of agricultural
commodity markets and reducing marketing margins. While such gains will
help to create a growth-nurturing environment, they will be of a
one-shot" nature. They will not provide a sustained impetus for
continuous growth in the sector. The Need for Higher Productivity and
Higher-Valued Products. As area expansion and further gains in the
incentive regime are unlikely to support sustained growth in the future,



Uganda must look to other sources of growth for the agricultural sector if
rural development is to continue. The two possible sources for growth
are, on the one hand, increases in the productivity of land and labor, and
on the other hand, a shift in production patterns from low-value staples
to higher value commodities. Past growth occurred without the support of
either. Since the sixties, land and labor productivities have both
suffered secular decline while production patterns have exhibited a
structural shift towards relatively low-valued food crops. There is great
scope for improvement on both counts. With agriculture being the
principle economic activity in rural areas, it is here that the
Government's strategy for the revitalization of rural development is
anchored.    The first pillar of the strategy, increasing agricultural
productivity, focuses on transforming Uganda's "low-input / low-output"
agriculture into a modern science-based agriculture capable of sustaining
growth in the sector and raising the incomes of farm families. At the
level of the farm, this would require better access to improved
technologies and to modern inputs. It would also require increases in
farmer know-how. The second broad pillar of the strategy focuses upon
helping production patterns to shift from low-value staples to
higher-valued commodities. Here, Uganda has an important factor in its
favor - the long tradition on farms in many parts of the country to
produce at least small amounts of coffee for market. The strategy would
be one of seeking to build upon and expand this tradition of partial
market-orientation. The strategy would seek ways to help farmers to
produce a variety of products, some of them of higher value for
commercialization in order to be able to increase their household
incomes. Some of the measures necessary to pursue this strategy are
similar or complementary to those required to raise productivity. At the
level of the farm, they would include acquiring the knowledge of how to
produce and to market higher-value crops, greater access to the required
inputs, and better access to reliable outlets for such products. The
public sector has a role to play in creating the conditions under which
these transformations can occur at the level of the farm. This is
recognized in the Government's Statement to the December 1998 Consultative
Group Meeting entitled: Towards a Sector Wide Approach: Developing a
Framework for the Modernization of Agriculture in Uganda and finalized in
the March 2000 Plan for Modernization of Agriculture: Eradicating Poverty
in Uganda which calls for public sector investments and programs in a
number of areas including the following: (a) agricultural research and
extension; (b) the establishment and maintenance of a regulatory and
policy environment in which markets and distribution chains for modern
inputs (including credit, fertilizer, seeds, equipment, etc) and for farm
products can develop more fully; (c) improved rural and agricultural
education; (d) the establishment of clearer property rights to land in
order to encourage investment and efficient use of natural resources;
and,(e) development of infrastructure such as rural roads which will be
needed for growth in the marketing of both inputs and outputs. A Focus on
the Relevance of Agricultural Research and Extension. While public sector
support is needed for a variety of activities if agricultural growth is to
be achieved, as indicated above, Uganda's Plan for the Modernization of
Agriculture (henceforth PMA) assigns first priority to agricultural
extension and research. Further, focus is placed on achieving greater
relevance in both the research and extension programs. The analysis
underlying the PMA suggests that the low productivity observed in Ugandan
agriculture today is not the consequence of a lack of research activity,
-2 -



nor of a lack of extension activity. In fact, well-established
institutions are reasonably active in both research and extension.
Rather, the low productivity of Ugandan farmers can be traced to a lack of
adequate interface between research and extension, on the one hand, and
farmers on the other. Correspondingly, at present, farmers' needs do not
sufficiently drive the orientation of research and extension efforts
(causing lack of relevance), while the know-how and the technologies which
are produced by the system, even when relevant, are not widely taken up by
farmers (suggesting lack of effectiveness in the transfer of
technologies).     Based on this analysis, the emphasis of Uganda's
strategy is being placed upon improving the relevance as well as the
effectiveness of the process of technology generation and transfer, i.e.
of the agricultural research and extension programs. This means
redoubling efforts in the extension area, but now under institutional
arrangements which have been transformed to ensure that extension would
become more directly responsive to farmers' needs. It also suggests
maintaining the program of investments in agricultural research, but as in
extension, now under a set of institutional arrangements transformed so as
to improve the responsiveness of agricultural research activities to the
needs of extensionists and of the farmers they serve. The Government's
vision as outlined in the PMA is for a more relevant and responsive
extension program which would be achieved through a redesign of the public
extension program according to the following guiding principles: n
focusing the content of both programs on enhancing intensification and
productivity of small-holder agriculture;n increasingly, bringing
research closer to (and even into) farmers fields;n making linkages
between farmers, extensionists, and researchers more demand driven;n
further decentralization of responsibilities for extension to the level of
the sub-counties;n contracting out field extension,
technical-backstopping, and training of extensionists;f allowing for a
plurality of providers and methodologies at the field level; and n
learning from, and building on, successful experiences. The vision which
emerges from the PMA, as described above, is widely shared among the
various stakeholders including government officials, farmers, NGOs and
civil society, and the community of donors. This vision and its
accompanying guiding principles for agricultural research and extension
are also consistent with the those advocated in the recent FAO/World Bank
publication entitled Agricultural Knowledge and Information Systems for
Rural Development, Strategic Vision and Guiding Principles (FAO and World
Bank, Rome 2000).
2. Objectives
The overall development objective of the program would be to assist poor
men and women farmers to become aware of, and to be able to adopt,
improved technology and management practices in their farming enterprises
so as to enhance their productive efficiency, their economic welfare, and
the sustainability of their farming operations.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
World Bank support has been instrumental in the development of NAADS in
several respects: (1) synthesis of the experience to date with
agricultural services and rural development in Uganda; (2) development of
guiding principles for agricultural advisory services in Uganda based upon
the Ugandan situation and international experience; and (3) coordination
of an effort to encourage all interested donors to harmonize their support
-3 -



to agricultural services in Uganda through agreeing to common support to
NAADS.
4. Description
The project would finance five components:    (1) Advisory and Information
Services to Farmers; (2) Technology Development and Linkages with
Markets; (3) Quality Assurance - Regulations and Technical Auditing of
Service Providers; (4) Private Sector Institutional Development; and, (5)
Program Management and Monitoring. A brief description of each component
is found directly below while a more detailed description of each of the
components is contained in Annex 2.Component 1 - Advisory and Information
Services to Farmers. This component would support initiatives by men and
women farmers, working together in groups with their Sub-county
government, to contract agricultural advisory services. Matching grants
would be channeled from the national level of Government through the
districts for farmers (through farmers' fora and their local governments)
to use in financing such contracts. Services which would be contracted
under this mechanism would include Program Orientation and Group
Mobilization for farmers, Participatory Planning, Farm Advisory Services,
and Information and Communications.Component 2 - Technology Development
and Linkages with Markets. This component would foster strong linkages
among farmers, advisers, and researchers and between farmers and markets
by making funding for technical support available to farmers and their
farm advisors. Funds would be available at the District level with which
to contract the services of researchers and others with relevant expertise
to work with farmers and farm advisors in farmers' fields on specific
technology, market development and adaptation. The following areas will
be supported: On-Farm Technology Development and Market Linkage
Development and District/National Priority Projects and Training
Events.Component 3 - Quality Assurance - Regulations and Technical
Auditing of Service Providers. Under this component, the NAADS Board and
Secretariat would set standards and provide a regulatory framework for
service providers, by setting and enforcing standards for qualification
and performance, and developing a model contract. Specific activities to
be funded include Standard Setting and Regulation of Service Providers and
Technical Auditing of Service ProvidersComponent 4 - Private Sector
Institutional Development. This component would establish a program to
assist firms and other institutions to become eligible for award of
contracts to provide services to farmers, within the NAADS program.
Specific activities to be funded include Local Service Provider
Development and National Representative Organizations/Institutions
Support. In addition, the programme will provide a comprehensive package
of benefits, including training, which will enable the transition of
employment status of existing public sector extensionists to employment in
the private sector.    Component 5 - Program Management and Monitoring.
This component will establish and support institutional entities at both
the National and District levels of Government, which shall co-ordinate
and administer the program. At National level, this will include
establishment and maintenance of the NAADS board and executive. At Local
Government levels, district and sub-county NAADS co-ordinators will be
supported to facilitate bottom-up planning process of the program, liaise
with other stakeholders to provide consultation and dialogue. It will
support the facilitation, co-ordination, financial management and
reporting, financial auditing of the programs financial flows, and
oversight of service contracts. In addition, a Management Information
- 4 -



System will be established for monitoring the program, as well as baseline
surveys and data gathering procedures for impact evaluation. Specific
activities to be funded include the expenses related to establishing and
operating the NAADS Board and Executive, planning - design, institution,
oversight and assistance with the planning processes, Training and
Capacity Building for NAADS staff, and Management Information System and
Impact Evaluation.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IDA                              45
BORROWING AGENCY                 9.12
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT         17.5
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT,
CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY       10.8
BILATERAL AGENCIES
(UNIDENTIFIED)                   23.34
FARMER ORGANIZATIONS             2.16
Total Project Cost               107.92
6. Implementation
MAAIF will have overall national responsibility for the program, with
oversight by MFPED, while Sub-county and District Local Councils and
Administrations will be responsible for support and supervision at their
levels. Primary responsibility at grassroots will be vested in the farmer
groups that will be the prime clients of the advisory services -- and
their elected Farmer Forums at Sub-county, District and National level.
The NAADS Board will be constituted and charged with the role of advising
and giving guidance on program policy and strategy issues and
facilitating, supervising and supporting the NAADS Executive. The NAADS
Board will answer to the Permanent Secretary, MAAIF. In addition to their
oversight duties, Board members will from time to time be given specific
additional tasks to address program issues, assist in promotion and
troubleshoot problems. The Board will be comprised of the following
representatives: eight representatives of farmers and Farmer Forums; two
representatives of agro-industry; one representative of the Local
Government Authorities Association; one representative each from MAAIF,
MFPED and NARO; and the one representative of the NGO/academic sector. The
Board will elect a Chairperson from among its members and will meet not
more often than twice per year. The program Director will be the Secretary
to the Board. The NAADS Secretariat will report to the Board and will be
responsible for the implementation of the program. The Secretariat will
have a relatively small core staff (initially under 10 professionals)
which would include a Program Director; a Financial Controller; a
Planning Manager; an Agriculture and Extension Manager; several Program
Supervisors; and a Community Development Manager. The members of the
Secretariat will hold the responsibility for planning, direction, support
and management of operations in their respective field of competence.
They will be given a wide measure of discretion and authority. They will
be competitively recruited on the open market and will be given fixed term
contracts. Since the majority of decisions and functions in routine
management will be the remit of the appropriate Farmer Forum, Sub-county
and District personnel, the major task of the Secretariat members will be
in overall planning, technical guiding and oversight of operations; and
- 5-



performing a catalytic and promotional function in advancing program
coverage and impact. The Secretariat will meet formally at least monthly
and will have authority to co-opt such others of the management staff or
external advisers into its meetings as needed. During initial stages of
the Program, a group of additional contracted staff (perhaps four to five
professionals) would be needed to help initiate the program in Districts
and Sub-counties as they enter the Program.    Local Governments at
District and Sub-county level would be responsible for most local
administrative and regulatory aspects and support requirements for NAADS.
Where new functions are to be carried out, these will be added to the
appropriate organs of the local authority. Parish, Sub-county and
District Councils will, at their respective levels, be responsible for
policy, assessment of effectiveness and general oversight of the NAADS,
and voting counterpart financial contributions. In each participating
District, the program will finance contracting by the District of a NAADS
Co-ordinator. The Co-ordinator will be responsible for ensuring the smooth
operation of NAADS program and integration of NAADS into the District
Annual Work Plan and Budget. At Sub-county level the program will finance
the incremental operating costs of a staff member to be assigned as
Sub-county NAADS Co-ordinator.Farmers institutions will be the cardinal
element of the program and their effectiveness will be the principal
determinant of NAADS and PMA success. The purpose of formation of these
farmers groups is to create institutions for farmer empowerment. Their
main forms and roles will be as follows:    n Farmer Groups will be the
nuclear, grass roots NAADS institutions and NAADS will set certain minimum
requirements and conditions for recognizing groups.n Farmer Fora will be
the main institutional structures for increasing participation of
farmers. Initially, where they do not already exist, they will be formed
by an open and transparent elective process among farmers groups and
associations, at Sub-county, District and National levels; formation and
support of the Fora will be initiated and fostered by NAADS, utilizing
both local Community Development staff from the Sub-county and District,
Change Agents and specialist service providers as professional advisers as
appropriate. Farmers' Fora will have a generic set of rights and
responsibilities as participants in the program which may be amended to
suit site-specific circumstances - these would include:- planning, costing
and contracting services and monitoring and evaluation- determining
resource allocations and priorities and performance evaluation service
providers- review of local government plans for agricultural development-
feed-back and feed-forward between Forums at different levels- at national
level to furnish the farmer element of NAADS Board membership.Service
Providers will be individuals, small groups of advisers, consultancy and
professional companies, parastatal agencies, NGOs, academic institutions,
or commercial companies. As the number of existing service providers is
currently relatively small, the NAADS program itself would devote
resources and attention to the development of the service provider sector,
helping interested institutions, firms, and individuals to establish
themselves as potential service providers under NAADS. The main role of
these service providing agencies will be to arrange and perform the
advisory, research and development services in response to the demands of
farmers, Sub-counties, Districts and the NAADS Secretariat. Agricultural
trading, input supply and produce marketing, storage, processing and
manufacturing organizations will also be important
contributors.Organograms for Staffing, Program Planning and Operations are
attached as Annex 16.
-6-



7. Sustainability
At the outset (for the first five years of the Program), NAADS would have
budgetary integrity in that it would be scaled at the level established
within the Government's Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and the
PMA. The longer term sustainability of the program would be ensured by
the gradual shifting of the burden of cost to user-farmers and local
governments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A review of the Bank's involvement in agricultural extension projects
reveals several lessons with regard to successful extension projects. As
a general principal, projects have not been successful when they have
lacked a clear statement of goals and of the means to be employed in
achieving the goals. The clear objective of this project would be to
assist poor farmers in Uganda to become aware of, and to be able to adopt,
improved technology and management practices in their farming enterprises
so as to enhance their productive efficiency, their economic welfare, and
the sustainability of their farming operations.The success of most
extension programs is particularly tied to the responsiveness of program
design to the specific needs of the client. Thus, a single extension
model cannot be designed for global application, and the participation of
local professionals and beneficiaries throughout the project planning and
implementation stages is of critical importance. The decentralized,
demand-driven nature of the proposed project is consistent with this
lesson from experience. A further general characteristic of successful
extension programs is that a responsive training program has been
established for the staff of the extension system. A training program has
been of fundamental importance in providing extension staff with the
skills necessary for their jobs and to maintain their awareness of the
development of new technologies. The proposed project explicitly
addresses this need through its training component.Flexibility to meet the
needs of a heterogenous population of beneficiaries has often been
difficult to achieve when the delivery of extension services has been
limited to one delivery mechanism. In that this project will make it
possible for sub-counties and beneficiaries to contract any qualified
institution or entity to deliver advisory services will permit great
flexibility in the types of delivery mechanisms which might be employed.
Financial sustainability has frequently been a problem in past extension
projects, as has the government's ability to cover recurrent costs of a
typical extension system, even during the life of the project. The nature
of the cofinancing matrix adopted for the proposed project will address
both of these issues. First, the financial burden will be shared among
beneficiaries, sub-counties, districts, and the national government.
Secondly, the relative share of the burden covered by each will gradually
be shifted away from the national government toward beneficiaries and
sub-counties. This arrangement will improve the likelihood that the
proposed project will be sustainable.In a number of past projects,
appropriate technologies have not been available for transfer to
beneficiaries. This problem has been closely tied to the lack of
systematic linkages between agricultural extension and the agricultural
research community. The proposed project, through the use of subject
matter specialists and the monthly meeting format, is expected to result
in a close linkage and two-way feedback system between extension and
research. With regard to the lack of available technologies, this is a
problem which does not currently exist in Uganda. In fact, it is
- 7-



purported that a large backlog of available but as of yet unadopted
technologies already exists. Further, in order to ensure the continued
development of new agricultural technologies, an IDA-financed project to
support and strengthen the agricultural research system in Uganda became
effective earlier this year.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Consultations were held with government and
non-government stakeholders between March and October, 2000. Their
comments have been taken into account and incorporated in the EMP. In
addition, a pest management plan was prepared as part of the environmental
analysis and is available in the project files.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
David J. Nielson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 10, 2000.
- 8 -



