                                                                                                       92751
                                                                                                       April 20, 2007

                                                                 Links:
                                                                 - What is IDA?
                                                                 - Our Work in Uganda


                                                                 More on Uganda:
                                                                 - Borrowing History
                                                                 - Data & Statistics
                                                                 - Research
                                                                 - Contact Us




While the agriculture sector in Uganda has grown steadily by nearly 4 percent for more than 10
years, real agricultural GDP has still not achieved the level reached in the 1970s. Over the last
10 years, the main sources of growth–which are expansion of area under cultivation and
improvement of incentives for farmers to produce–have been played out, meaning that Uganda
must look to such alternatives as increasing productivity of land and labor and shifting production
patterns from low-value staples to higher value commodities.




Low productivity of Ugandan farmers is attributed to research and extension services that are not
adequately demand-driven and low use of new technologies by farmers even when they are
available. Uganda's Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture assigns first priority to agriculture
extension and research, focusing on achieving greater relevance in both the research and
extension programs. This effort is supported by a multi-donor National Agricultural Advisory
Services Project (NAADS)–designed to make poor farmers aware of and equipped to adopt,
improved technology and management practices. By the end of 2006, the project was operating
in 37 districts (of a total of 80). By the end of 2007, it is expected to have reached 64 districts.




The project is ongoing, but initial surveys suggest that farmers in those counties covered
by the project are adopting technologies that lead to real improvements in yields and farm
incomes. Productivity of those farmers is reported to be 27 percent higher than those in
areas not currently served by the project.
 
Highlights:
- The NAADS project continues to expand rapidly.
- As a result of the confidence in the program, the government budget allocation for the program
of agricultural advisory services increased 46 percent in 2006/07.
- 64 percent of farmers groups have reported replicating some aspects of the new project
technology on their own fields.




- Total project cost is US$107.92 million, of which US$45 million is from IDA covering the period
from 2001 to 2008.
- IDA led an effort among donors to harmonize support through NAADS.
- IDA helped synthesize the experience to date with agricultural services and rural development
in Uganda, and to develop guiding principles for agricultural advisory services. The NAADS
model is being studied by other African countries and academics worldwide, with aspects being
replicated in Kenya and Zambia.
- The NAADS approach involves provision of support to demand-driven activities; farmer
empowerment is achieved through direct contracting of advisory services by farmer groups.




International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and the European Union,
Denmark, Ireland, the Netherlands, and the UK. Local governments and farmers
organizations are also contributing to the project in cash and in kind.




A major challenge for NAADS in the future will be expanding its reach beyond areas initially
participating in the program. Marketing and post harvest handling will be increasingly important to
sustaining and transforming adoption of technologies into increases in household wealth and
income.




National Agricultural Advisory Services Project (2001-08)
Project documents
