Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5016 
Operation Name 
HT 3rd Econ. Governance Reform Operation 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P117944 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
July 27, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 3, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 20, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The country has made considerable progress in restoring political and social stability since 2004
.
After two years under a transitional government, Haiti successfully held presidential and parliamentary 
elections in 2006.  President René Préval of the Lespwa party won 51 percent of the presidential vote. 
He appointed Prime Minister Jacques-Edouard Alexis to head a six-party coalition government, which 
took office in May 2006.  The 48th legislature was opened in May 2006, ending three years of 
legislative paralysis - and strengthening checks and balances in the political system. However, social and 
political stability remain fragile, as the violent protest and fall of the Government in April 2008 
illustrate. 
 
However, Haiti remains by far the poorest country in Latin American and the Caribbean and 
among the poorest in the world,
 with 54 percent of the population living on below US$1 a day and 78 
percent on less than US$2 a day in 2001.
1
The 2008 United Nations Human Development Index ranked 
Haiti 148 out of 179 countries.  Income inequality is high, with a Gini coefficient of 0.59, among the 
highest in Latin America and the Caribbean.  
 
The Government articulated in the poverty reduction strategy (DSNCRP) its long-term vision to 
foster growth, reduce poverty and raise living standards, through an ambitious program of 
institutional reform and public investment
.
The DSNCRP was prepared through a participatory 
process consisting of consultations with civil society, government officials, and development partners. 
The overall strategic priorities of the DSNCRP are structured around three pillars: (i) enhancing human 
development, with a focus on improving delivery of basic services; (ii) improving security and the 
justice system; and (iii) promoting vectors of growth through agriculture and rural development, 
tourism, and infrastructure. The DSNCRP also includes as one of its cross-cutting policy priorities a 
strategy to build state capacity, including state modernization and civil service reform. Finally, it 
emphasizes the importance of a stable macroeconomic framework and sound management of public 
resources. 
 
The Bank has been supporting the Government’s economic governance reform agenda through 
two previous Economic Governance Reform Operations (EGRO).
 The EGRO I and II, respectively 
approved in January 2005 and January 2007, were a key component of IDA's program in Haiti. The 
1
Latest data available. 
Page  2
operations supported the Government's implementation of critical economic governance reforms to 
increase transparency and efficiency in the use of public resources and external assistance. The key 
objectives were: (a) improvement of public expenditure management and public procurement processes; 
(b) strengthening of the public sector’s human resource management and employees’ accountability; (c) 
stepping up of anti-corruption efforts; (d) improving efficiency and transparency in the management of 
public enterprises and the Road Maintenance Fund; and (e) creating a mechanism for civil society to 
monitor economic governance reforms and supporting Government communications efforts to increase 
public understanding and raise awareness of governance reforms. Reform implementation under EGRO 
II has remained strong over the past year, despite the fragile security situation and the food crisis, 
enabling disbursement of the final tranche in July 2009. 
 
The new Country Assistance Strategy, which was endorsed by the Board in June 2009, outlines 
support to Haiti planned by the World Bank Group for the four year period FY09-12
.
The CAS is 
built on three pillars: (i) promoting growth and local development; (ii) investing in human capital; and 
(iii) reducing vulnerability to disasters. Cutting across the strategy is a two-pronged approach, 
combining longer-term institution building (including economic governance reform) with support for the 
Government in the delivery of quick, visible results. Total IDA allocations for the CAS implementation 
period are projected at roughly US$121 million, including additional IDA resources of US$20 million 
announced in April 2009, US$9 million of which are expected to be used for the proposed Development 
Policy Operation, bringing the total to US$12.5 million. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed single-tranche operation would be part of a programmatic series of two 
development policy grants supporting DSNCR priority areas, 
including
 
improving the delivery of 
key infrastructure services, building state capacity, and improving management of public resources. 
Specifically, the programmatic series will build on the Government’s achievements under the 
predecessor operations, supporting its economic governance reform program. As such, the proposed 
operation pursues the following development objectives: (i) improving fiscal policy to allow for a better 
alignment of the budget with the DSNCRP priorities; (ii) modernizing public financial management to 
raise and use public resources in a more efficient and transparent manner; (iii) and sustaining 
improvements in the public procurement system. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
In order to achieve the broader development objectives, the proposed operation will support 
policy measures under three components.
 Under the first component (Fiscal Policy), the operation 
will aim at creating fiscal space for and enhancing transparency in resource allocations for key 
infrastructure. Under the second component (Public Financial Management), the operation supports (i) 
improved revenue mobilization through the approval of the new Customs Code by the lower chamber of 
the National Assembly, and through the installation of a new automated customs information system in 
key customs posts; (ii) the timely approval of the national budget, and its alignment with the DSNCRP 
objectives by securing and allocating more resources to key sectors critical for growth and poverty 
reduction (health and education); and (iii) the implementation of a public investment information system 
(SYSGEP). Under the third component (Public Procurement), the operation supports the adoption of the 
four key regulatory decrees required for the implementation of the new Public Procurement Law. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Page  3
The specific policies supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have a significant negative 
impact on the environment, forests or other natural resources. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
12.5 
 Total 
12.5 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Jasmin Chakeri 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4882 
Fax: (202) 614-1110 
Email: jchakeri@worldbank.org
 
