Document of
The World Bank                   FILE            > P
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2406-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
TURKIYE PETROLLERI ANONIM ORTAKLIGI
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE
BATI RAMAN ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY ENGINEERING PROJECT
November 8, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira
US$ 1.00       -  25 TL (from March 1978)
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Tonr (MT) - 1.1023 US Short Tons
1 Megawatt (MW)   - 1000 Kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS
API    -    American Petroleum Institute gravity classification
CLA    -    Convertible Lira Accounts
CO2    -    Carbon Dioxide
EOR    -    Enhanced Oil Recovery
GDP    -    Gross Domestic Product
MT     -    Metric Ton
MTA    -    Mineral Research Institute
MW     -    Megawatts
SEE    -    State Economic Enterprise
TOE    -    Tons of Oil Equivalent
TPAO   -    Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi
TPY    -    Tons Per Year
FISCAL YEAR
TPAO January .1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - BATI RAMAN ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim Ortakligi (TPAO)
Guarantor:     Republic of Turkey
Amount:        $2.5 million equivalent, in various currencies
Terms:         Repayable in 10 years, including 2 years of grace, through
semi-annual installments at 7.35 percent per annum. The loan
would be refinanced under any future loan which the Bank might
provide for the Bati Raman Pilot Project, resulting from the
work financed by the proposed loan.
Project
Description: The project includes:
(a) a comparative feasibility study of various possible
enhanced oil recovery methods applicable to the Bati
Raman reservoir, based on its geological structure,
reservoir rock characteristics and fluid properties,
to determine the most technically and economically
appropriate enhanced recovery technology;
(b) based on the findings of the comparative feasibility
study, the development of design parameters and esti-
mated capital cost of the recommended pilot plant, to
be followed-up by detailed engineering thereof includ-
ing the preparation of working drawings, technical
specifications and tender documents;
(c) obtaining additional core and fluid samples for the
reservoir, including provision of specialized equipment
and dtilling supervisory services, geological evalua-
tion of reservoir on the basis of new core sampling;
and
(d) specialized training abroad in enhanced oil recovery
techniques, geological evaluation and petroleum
reservoir engineering techniques, including simulation
of reservoir operations.
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11. -
Project Cost Estimates:   The estimated cost of the project is as follows:
--------US$ Million--------
Local     Foreign      Total
(1)  Comparative feasibility study        0.20        1.00       1.20
(2)  Engineering design for pilot
plant                                0.15        0.65       0.80
(3)  Core sampling equipment, materials
and advisory services                0.05        0.50       0.55
(4)  Overseas training                    0.05        0.10       0.15
Subtotal                       0.45        2.25       2.70
Contingencies                        0.05        0.25       0.30
Total                          0.50        2.50       3.00
Financing Plan:                                 --------US$ Million-------
IBRD                                  -          2.50       2.50
TPAO                                 0.50         -         0.50
Total                          0.50        2.50       3.00
Estimated Disbursements:                        ---------US$ Million------
Bank FY                                     1979       1980
Annual                                       1.1        1.4
Cumulative                                   1.1        2.5
Consultants:      Proposals were received from 12 firms, having international
experience in this specialized field and whose inclusion in
the list was satisfactory to the Bank. Following evaluation
of these proposals, with which the Bank concurred, a firm
has been selected and contract negotiations are now in
progress.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO TURKIYE PETROLLERI ANONIM ORTAKLIGI
FOR BATI RAMAN ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
engineering loan of $2.5 million equivalent to Turkiye Petrolleri Anonim
Ortakligi (TPAO), with the guarantee of the Republic of Turkey, to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of a comparative evaluation study of
enhanced oil recovery techniques to be applied to the Bati Raman oil field
and detailed design and engineering of a pilot plant for testing the chosen
method. The proposed loan would have a term of 10 years, including 2 years
of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976. The economic situation subsequently deterio-
rated, culminating in a serious balance-of-payments crisis and rapid infla-
tion. This section analyzes these developments in the Turkish economy. (A
fuller account may be found in the extended economic annex to the Report and
Recommendation of the President on the Erdemir Stage II Steel Project, dated
June 15, 1978.) It also describes the short and medium-term policy initia-
tives of the new Ecevit Government, which assumed power in January 1978, and
cautiously assesses future economic prospects.
Structure and Performance
3.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment to
rapid growth and modernization, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. This impressive economic progress, however,
has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970 and most recently in 1977) by severe
balance-of-payments crises. The recent crisis has been the product partly
of extraneous factors and partly of Turkish development strategy itself, which
paid insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy and
perhaps exacerbated some of them.
4.        The emphasis which successive governments have laid on industrial-
ization has been reflected in a doubling of the share of the industrial sector
in total output between 1955 and 1977. It has also resulted in comparative
neglect of agricultural development, which has, in addition, been hampered
by inappropriate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts
1/   This Part is essentially the same as that in the President's Report No.
P-2374a-TU dated October 19, 1978 in the Program Loan for Turkey.



- 2 -
of Turkish industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so,
a strong emphasis so far on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has
resulted in high-cost production in certain sectors. Unselective protection
against competition from imports has also inhibited the development of an
industrial structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in
terms of location, natural resources and labor availability. One important
consequence of this, in the context of a foreign trade strategy which has
emphasized import-substitution, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to
develop a strong industrial export base, and has relied mainly instead on its
traditional agricultural exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to
finance the imports of materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious
modernization effort. This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of
the difficulty which Turkey has periodically experienced in reconciling rapid
growth with a viable external payments position.
Production and Employment
5.        The rate of growth of production in Turkey, unlike that in many
other countries, remained fairly high during the recent world recession.
The average annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-77 was 7.2
percent. Continued rapid growth was made possible by a rising public sector
deficit, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand that more than offset
the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased outflow of pay-
ments for oil and other imports. As a result, the growth of output was con-
strained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and improved inputs
led to an average annual rate of growth of agricultural output of about 4.4
percent in the period 1970-77, while industrial output grew at about 10
percent--principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial
investment. The general pace of investment in Turkey did not slacken during
the world recession. On the contrary, largely as the result of an intensified
public investment drive from 1975 onwards, the share of fixed investment in
GDP increased from under 19 percent in the period of the Second Plan (1968-72)
to over 20 percent in the period of the Third Plan (1973-77).
6.        The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970s
was not matched by that of employment, which has never been at the forefront
of the objectives of successive governments. Unemployment and underemployment
were relatively high, and were about 12 percent of the labor force in 1970,
and rose to over 13 percent in 1977. The underlying causes of this problem,
which has been aggravated by a sharp reduction in the rate of emigration
since 1973, are a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of population growth,
and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of production in
both the modern sectors of agriculture and industry. The comparatively slow
rate of growth of productive employment has had an adverse effect on the
distribution of income in Turkey, although basic needs are largely met. The
two main causes of this inequality, however, are the large gap between agri-
cultural and non-agricultural labor productivity, and the wide dispersion of
farmers' incomes.
7.        In 1977, the growth rate of real GDP declined to 4.4 percent.    This
was in part a reflection of a virtually zero growth rate of agricultural



-3 -
output due to bad weather conditions and other sectoral problems. In addition,
the growth of non-agricultural output was adversely affected by a decline in
the rate of capacity utilization, due to difficulties in effecting the foreign
exchange transfers necessary to purchase imported inputs, shortages of elec-
tricity, shortages of domestically produced materials of adequate quality, and
labor disputes.
Balance of Payments
8.        The most prominent feature of the balance of payments crisis of 1977
was the large resource gap, which amounted to almost $4 billion, or 9 percent
of GDP. But this did not arise overnight; the resource gap had been widening
steadily since 1973, when it was only $0.6 billion, or 3 percent of GDP.
9.        One aspect of this marked deterioration in Turkey's external trading
position was a very rapid increase in imports, which nearly tripled in value
between 1973 and 1977, when they reached $5.8 billion. Approximately half
this increase was due to rising world prices, including a four-fold rise in
the price of oil, which currently accounts for about a quarter of the total
import bill. The other half of the increase was due to a steep rise in the
volume of imports, which grew at about 15 percent per annum, roughly double
the growth rate of real GDP.
10.       This high import propensity has been characteristic of Turkey in the
1970s, and may be seen partly as a "catching up" phenomenon. In 1970, after a
decade of strict import rationing, the ratio of imports to GDP in Turkey was
only 7 percent, about half the average for countries of its size and stage of
development. By 1977, after several years of liberalization of import restric-
tions, this ratio had reached 14 percent. In concrete terms, this process was
associated with a great increase in the use of imported fertilizer in agricul-
ture, and changes in industrial structure and technology, which increased the
dependence of the rapidly growing industrial sector on imported inputs. After
1973, the rate of growth of imports was accelerated by: a fall in the local
currency price of imported goods relative to domestic output due to a rate of
inflation in Turkey which exceeded the international inflation rate by more
than the rate of depreciation of the Turkish lira against other currencies;
absolute shortages of domestically produced goods; an increase in the share of
fixed investment in total expenditure; and possibly also a tendency at times
to build up imported stocks in anticipation of devaluation.
11.       From 1970 to 1973, the rising propensity to import was more or less
offset by rapid expansion of exports--particularly manufactured exports such
as cotton yarn and fabric, leather products and processed food--and worker's
remittances. In value terms, total exports increased from $588.5 million in
1970 to $1,317 million in 1973, or by 31 percent per annum. Manufactured
exports increased even faster--from $100.3 million in 1970 to $443.4 million
in 1973, or by 64 percent per annum. In volume terms, total exports during
1970-1973 increased by an average annual rate of 22 percent, a very high rate
indeed. The increase in worker's remittances was even more dramatic--up from
$273 million in 1970 to $1,183 million in 1973, reaching a peak of $1.4 bil-
lion in 1974.   Since 1973, however, export performance has been weak and



- 4 -
remittances also declined. The value of exports rose by 33 percent between
1974 and 1977, when it attained $1.8 billion, mainly due to rising world
prices; in volume terms, exports showed no upward trend. Thus by 1977,
merchandise exports were only one-third as large as imports, and the tourism
balance was negative.
12.       The poor showing of exports between 1974-77 is in part attribut-
able to the world recession. This not only affected industrial exports; it
also depressed Turkish agricultural exports such as hazelnuts, raisins and
industrial raw materials (cotton and tobacco). The difficulties caused by
the world recession were enhanced by two other factors: (a) agricultural
support prices bore little relation to world prices, and thus failed to
provide incentives to farmers to increase production of exportable commodi-
ties; (b) this problem was compounded by a general neglect of agricultural
development, buoyant domestic demand for agricultural produce, and ineffective
administration of agricultural export sales. More importantly, the develop-
ment of industrial exports, which at present account for only 7 percent of the
value of industrial output, was stifled by a more rapid increase of production
costs in Turkey than in her trading partners, which was not sufficiently
offset by periodic small devaluations of the lira. As a result, exporting,
which had been lucrative for a brief period in the early 1970s, became much
less profitable, and potentially exportable production was diverted to the
booming and highly profitable domestic market.
13.       The current account balance moved from a surplus of $0.5 billion
in 1973 to a deficit of $3.6 billion in 1977, because of a rapid deterioration
in trade balance and a decline in workers' remittances from a peak of $1.4
billion in 1974 to around $1 billion in 1977. One important cause of this
decline has been the restrictions on immigration imposed by Western European
countries in the face of growing domestic unemployment caused by the world
recession. The rate at which foreign earnings were remitted also fell sub-
stantially. This was caused in part by changes in the composition of the
Turkish emigrant population, including an increase in the proportion of
workers allowed to bring their families to join them. In part, it also
reflected overvaluation of the lira, which induced migrant workers either
to hold their savings abroad or to remit them through unofficial channels.
14.       The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey has delib-
erately kept both foreign private investment and private long-term borrowing
to a minimum. The gross inflow from official long-term borrowing during
1970-75 stagnated at about $300 million per annum. Initially, this was due
to a manageable need for foreign finance, given the tremendous increase in
workers' remittances in the early 1970s. Subsequently, it was because of a
lack of experience and initiative on the part of successive governments to
develop and tap new sources of external borrowing, when faced with a decline
in multilateral and bilateral lending on concessional terms. In 1976 and
1977, long-term loan commitments rose sharply, to over $1 billion per annum.



-5-
Most of these loans were tied to specific purchases and projects, whose imple-
mentation has been slow; thus the level of disbursements increased slowly.
Consequently, the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus of $0.9
billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1977 and was in part financed
by running down the foreign exchange reserves to the tune of $1.5 billion.
By the end of 1977, reserves stood at $770 million, equivalent to only one and
a half months' imports. A large part of the deficits was financed by various
forms of short-term borrowing which by the end of 1977 stood at $6.5 billion.
15.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible Lira
Accounts (CLAs), which provided nearly $2 billion, mainly in 1975 and 1976.
These are deposits placed with Turkish banks by foreign commercial banks and
non-resident Turks, which were guaranteed until recently against exchange rate
risk by the Central Bank. Another major source of finance was short-term sup-
pliers' credits, partly covered by export credit insurance in the exporter's
country. In addition, a swap facility was established with the Bank for
International Settlements, and a scheme was implemented whereby the Dresdner
Bank takes in time deposits from Turkish workers in Germany, offering high
interest rates, and makes the Deutsche Mark proceeds available to the Turkish
government, which also pays the interest charges. During 1977, however,
foreign lenders became reluctant to roll over the outstanding stock of short-
term debt, and even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The
Central Bank was thus driven to delaying foreign exchange transfers on a large
scale leading to a substantial accumulation of arrears. This of course made
it even harder to obtain credit by conventional means.
Resource Mobilization and Monetary Developments
16.       The deterioration in the balance of payments position can also be
viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at demand management and
domestic resource mobilization, especially in the public sector. The public
sector deficit rose steadily from TL 6 billion (2 percent of GDP) in 1973 to
TL 77 billion (9 percent of GDP) in 1977. This substantial increase, which
occurred despite a creditable tax performance, was mainly due to a deteriora-
tion in the financial position of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and
in particular of the operational SEEs, which dominate the transport and energy
sectors and account for half the output of mining and manufacturing. Succes-
sive governments, in an effort to slow inflation, held the price increases of
operational SEEs below the rate at which their already high costs were rising,
thus transforming a TL 5 billion profit in 1973 into a TL 20 billion loss in
1977. In addition, the scale of SEE investment was greatly escalated, further
widening the gap between public sector savings and public sector investment.
Moreover, most of the increased public sector deficit was financed by borrow-
ing from the Central Bank, since administered ceilings on interest rates made
it hard to attract sufficient purchasers for government bonds. As a result,
and despite a large decline in the foreign exchange reserves, the money supply
increased rapidly, at an average annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974
and 1977. This was paralleled by a high rate of credit expansion to the
private sector.



- 6 -
17.       The rate of inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index,
declined from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975, but rose to 25 per-
cent in 1976 and about 35 percent in 1977, and accelerated in early 1978.
There are important cost-push influences on the price level in Turkey, includ-
ing a powerful labor union movement and a farmer-oriented agricultural price
support policy. But the recent trend has been the result principally of
excess demand caused by the enlargement of the public sector deficit, financed
by borrowing from the Central Bank, together with the private investment boom
which it stimulated. The consequent upward pressure on the price level was
aggravated in 1977 by a reduction in the growth rate of real output.
The Government's Short and Medium-Term Program
18.       The evolving solution to the present problems of the Turkish eco-
nomy, both in the short and the medium term, contains three salient elements.
First, restraint of domestic demand relative to domestic output, through an
increase in domestic savings, public and private, relative to domestic invest-
ment. Second, measures that directly boost exports substantially and restrain
imports, including the maintenance of competitiveness. Third, increased
availability of external finance especially through a substantial increase
in the level of medium and long-term borrowing. To accomplish this, the
outstanding stock of short-term debts is being rescheduled, converting them
into medium-term obligations, and strict control is being exercised over
future short-term borrowing. Ultimately there will have to be a considerable
restructuring of the economy to rectify imbalances in Turkey's current foreign
trade pattern.
Recent Stabilization Measures and Short-Term Prospects
19.       Certain preliminary steps in the direction of a stabilization policy
were belatedly taken by the coalition government of Mr. Demirel towards the
end of 1977. But these actions, in most instances, did not go far enough and
in any case, came too late. In early 1978, a new government, with a small but
working majority in the Parliament, came to power under Mr. Ecevit. It pur-
posefully set about taking painful, but essential, economic steps to restore
order in the chaotic economic house it inherited and build up the confidence
of the international financial community in Turkey's future. It swiftly
formulated a comprehensive package of stabilization measures as reflected
in the 1978 Budget and the 1978 Annual Program, which formed the basis of a
Standby Agreement with the IMF in April. Since then the Ecevit Government has
followed up with a series of other measures as discussed below.
20.       To raise domestic savings relative to domestic investment, in
September 1977 the Demirel government substantially increased a wide range of
SEE prices including air and electricity tariffs, as well as the prices of
coal, iron and steel. The Ecevit government between March and May, 1978,
further increased these and other tariffs and prices, including railroad and
shipping tariffs and the prices of non-ferrous metals and petrochemicals.
Irrigation charges were also raised. All these together are expected to add
TL 23 billion to SEE revenues in a full year. In early September 1978, the



- 7 -
Government further increased SEE prices for petroleum and petroleum products
and sugar by 80 percent, which is expected to increase revenues by TL 31
billion annually. In addition to these increases, the Government substantially
raised the stamp duty on imports, and has proposed to the Parliament, a
number of other tax revenue measures, including a large increase in motor
vehicle taxes, income and corporation taxes, municipal taxes, ancd other stamp
duties as part of a broader set of measures designed to enhance the efficiency
and equity of the fiscal system. It is committed to holding down the growth
of current expenditures. Its short-term intention as regards public sector
investment, is to concentrate on the completion of existing projects and to
cut back on new projects, except in the bottleneck energy and ports sectors,
and for exports and such basic imported commodities as steel and fertilizer.
In these ways, the present Government intends to achieve a marked reduction in
the public sector deficit, and in public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank. This, in conjunction with other limits on Central Bank lending agreed
with the IMF, should significantly reduce the rate of growth of the money
supply and the availability of credit, which in turn will help to restrain
investment and consumption. This should help significantly dampen domestic
demand, especially of industrial goods, and stimulate manufacturers to turn
increasingly to exports, which have been made attractive with several new
measures announced by the Government (para 23). To reinforce all this, and to
mobilize private savings, most interest rates, including those on government
bonds and the repatriated savings of migrant workers, have been increased by
about 2 percentage points.
21.        The Government's efforts to control the public finances and credit
expansion appear to be showing slow, but successful, results. In the first
quarter of the current fiscal year, the consolidated budget was in surplus by
TL 3 billion, as compared with a deficit of TL 11 billion in the corresponding
quarter of last year. In the first six months of 1978, the money supply
increased by 4 percent, compared with 12 percent in the corresponding period
of last year. In the first seven months of 1978, total Central Bank credit
increased by 15 percent as compared with 44 percent in the corresponding
period of last year. Central Bank credit to the public sector increased by
22 percent, compared with 69 percent in the corresponding period of last year.
This credit expansion is broadly within the parameters of the Standby Agree-
ment. However the Government and the IMF propose to review these parameters
in November. Despite these efforts, the price level (wholesale price index)
rose very rapidly in the first quarter of 1978; but in the second quarter,
there was a slowdown. Money wages have also been increasing at an annual rate
of 40 to 50 percent. But the Government made a "social contract" with the
largest trade union federation in July, whereby wage settlements will be no
larger than is necessary to compensate for past price increases. This should
help inhibit any wage-propelled acceleration of inflation.
22.       To discourage imports, and stimulate exports further, the Turkish
lira has been devalued against the dollar three times since March 1977, by a
total of about 50 percent. In addition, it has drifted downwards with the
dollar against other currencies. The effect of the devaluation on imports
will be augmented by the increase in stamp duty, and in the short term, also



-8-
by government decisions to reduce imports of investment goods. (by over 40
percent in 1978) and give priority to imports of materials and spare parts
needed to maintain as far as possible, output from existing installed capacity.
In this fashion, the Government's intention was to reduce merchandise imports
from $5.8 billion in 1977 to $5.0 billion in 1978 (see para 27).
23.       As regards exports, the effects of the recent devaluations were ini-
tially partly offset by a reduction of export rebates. In July 1978, these
rebates were increased again.   As an additional financial incentive, the Gov-
ernment has already begun, in various ways, to give priority to exporters in
the allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of imported inputs both
for export production, and up to a prescribed limit, for the production of
essential goods for domestic sale. Exporters have also been given special
permission to finance their import requirements through acceptance credits.
The degree of priority accorded to exporters in the allocation of domestic
credit through the banking system has been increased and the interest rate
rebates on domestic borrowing by exporters have been increased. This has also
served as an incentive of particular importance in the current credit squeeze.
An inter-ministerial Export Coordination Committee has been set up, to examine
and resolve some of the problems faced by exporters. Its efforts have already
led to some simplifications of export licensing and registration procedures,
and to a decision to provide exporters with certain locally produced inputs,
including cotton, at world prices. Export targets have been set for SEEs and
Agricultural Sales Cooperatives, and the government has taken prompt steps
to dispose of large existing stocks of exportable commodities, notably wheat.
Further, as part of its short-term stabilization program, the Government has
already taken steps to: (a) restrain domestic demand through its fiscal,
monetary and price policies which should help prevent diversion of potential
export goods for domestic use; and (b) improve competitiveness through
exchange rate adjustments. All these are clearly demonstrative of the Gov-
ernment's policy to make export-promotion the keystone in its efforts to
restore Turkish creditworthiness. As a result of these efforts and policy
measures, in the first seven months of 1978 value of exports increased by 12
percent, as compared with the same period in 1977. For the full year, in
1978 exports are expected to total about $2.1 billion as compared with $1.75
billion in 1977, representing about 12 percent increase in the volume.
24.       As regards external financial assistance, the IMF Standby Agreement
provided for the immediate withdrawal of about $89 million equivalent in com-
pensatory financing. In addition, since the Witteveen facility is not in
operation, Turkey was eligible to draw up to 150 percent of its quota, which
amounts to about $360 million under the Exceptional Circumstances clause.
This entitled Turkey to withdraw $60 million in May 1978. A further drawing
of $48 million was made in September, following renewed discussions between
the Government and the IMF concerning short-term economic developments and
prospects. As *a measure of the Government's determination to restore inter-
national confidence in the Turkish economy, it has recently decided to discuss
with the IMF the fine tuning of the stabilization package in November with a
view to improving further on its targets and achievements, prior to the release
of the remaining tranches of about $252 million.



- 9 -
25.       The Standby Agreement also put Turkey in a much better position to
cope with its large stock of short-term debt, estimated at $6.5 billion at the
end of 1977. The exchange rate guarantee on new CLAs with a maturity under
one year has been removed, which should stem new inflow of these short-term
deposits. Active negotiations are in progress with a consortium of commercial
banks, to consolidate about $2.5 billion of outstanding short-term liabilities,
including most of the CLAs, arrears on CLAs, and banker's credits, into
obligations with a maturity of about six years, including three years of
grace, at an interest rate somewhat above LIBOR. In view of the complexities
involved, including the reconciliation of the interests of as many as 220
banking institutions who hold CLAs, the progress of this large rescheduling
has been understandably slow. It is however expected that mutually satis-
factory rescheduling of this amount will be finalized in the near future.
To complement this, the Government also recently secured, from the members
of the OECD Consortium for Turkey, a rescheduling of service payments due up
to,June 1979, on public bilateral debt and private debt guaranteed by bila-
teral export financing agencies. According to estimates made by the Consor-
tium Secretariat, approximately $950 milli6n in interest and principal
payments falling due between January 1977 and June 1979 would be resched-
uled. The terms are two years' grace followed by four years to repay for
short maturities, and three years grace with five years repayment for longer-
term maturities. Interest rates for all maturities are to be negotiated
bilaterally. These bilateral negotiations are in progress with all OECD
creditor countries, and have been completed with some of them. However,
nearly $1 billion of unguaranteed trade debts still remain to be resched-
uled: The Government tabled proposals at the last Consortium meeting in June
to resolve this matter, which is under the members' consideration. These
various restructuring and rescheduling arrangements will substantially ease
the debt servicing burden in 1978 and 1979, although of course they will tend
to cause a subsequent bulge in debt service payments in the early 1980s.
26.       In addition, the Government has pursued other potential sources of
medium and long-term external finance, including new sources in the Middle
East. In response to this initiative, Germany signed in 1978 program credits
of $75 million and project credits of $65 million; Libya provided a program
credit of $100 million, and another $300 million spread over five years, to
finance oil imports; Iran provided a short-term credit of about $135 million
for oil imports; trade agreements of about $320 million have been signed with
Romania and Bulgaria, envisaging a positive trade balance; and, finally, a
trade protocol has been signed with the U.S.S.R. Another indication of
Turkey's change of direction in seeking external financing vigorously, is the
engagement for the first time of a group of internationally-reputed invest-
ment firms to assist in the rescheduling exercises as well as for tapping new
sources of private capital in Europe and the United States. Preparations are
far advanced towards the completion of borrowing arrangements for several
hundred million dollars, from some of the same commercial banks concluding
the rescheduling arrangements for the $2.5 billion of short-term debts.
27.       In March 1978, the new Ecevit Government developed a balance of
payments outlook for 1978, based on economic stabilization measures and the



- 10 -
anticipated inflow of foreign funds, on which the IMF's Standby Agreement
was predicated. However,' it now appears that the levels of exports, imports
and workers' remittances will be lower than those envisaged at that time.
While 1978 exports are likely to be some 20 percent above the 1977 level
and should total $2.1 billion, they will still be below the $2.6 billion
level envisaged at the time of the Standby Agreement. Similarly, workers'
remittances have not shown the resurgence anticipated at that time, and are
likely to amount to $800 million in 1978. Considering the projected inflows
of capital, including the expected disbursements of medium-term funds from
existing commitments (mostly project credits) and assuming that part of the
new comercial bank credits now being arranged will be forthcoming before the
end of 1978, it is estimated that 1978 imports can reach a maximum of only
$4.4 billion, rather than $5 billion anticipated at the time of the Standby
Agreement. Should new credits not materialize up to the anticipated levels,
then this would be inevitably reflected in a lower level of imports in 1978.
The balance of payments in 1979 is necessarily harder to project. However,
based on cautiously optimistic assumptions concerning exports and workers'
remittances, and reasonable expectations of the capital inflow, realization
of a volume of imports 4 percent higher than in 1978, would entail a foreign
exchange gap of $1 billion.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
28.        The Third Five Year Plan period ended in 1977.    Preparation of the
Fourth Plan was suspended for one year in view of the economic crisis, and now
the Plan will accordingly cover the years 1979 through'1983. The Fourth.Plan
Strategy document was approved by the Council of Ministers in mid-August after
a month of intensive discussion and revision. The Plan itself should be final-
ized by late 1978 and submitted to Parliament thereafter.
29.        The most important feature of the strategy, which is in sharp con-
trast to all three previous Plans, is the strong emphasis on the balance of
payments, and in particular on 'the promotion of exports. The export thrust is
one of the cornerstones of Government's medium-term development strategy,
whose success will be crucial to the restoration and maintenance of Turkey's
creditworthiness in the medium-term future.
30.        The Government's objective is to increase the volume of merchandise
exports by a factor of almost two and a half between 1979 and 1983. This
implies a real growth rate averaging around 18 percent per annum during the
Plan period. This is expected by the Government to be achieved broadly, in
the following manner. The volume of agricultural exports is expected to grow
at an annual rate of 5 percent, and-of mineral exports is expected to decrease.
Most of the increase in exports, however, is expected to come from manufactured
products, whose volume is expected to grow at an average annual rate of over
30 percent starting from an expected level of $650 million in 1978. About 40
percent of the planned increase in manufactured exports is expected to come
from food and beverages, textiles and clothing, and leather products; another
40 percent from intermediate goods such as rubber and plastics products,
chemicals, cement, glass and ceramics, and basic metals; the remaining 20
percent is expected to consist of consumer durables, capital goods, and other
products of the metal-working industries.



- 11 -
31.       To achieve these export targets, several measures are under active
consideration. In recognition of the need to make exports both profitable and
competitive on world markets, the Government intends to pursue a more rational
exchange rate policy than its predecessors, including a more rapid response
to differences between the rates of inflation in Turkey and in her trading
partners. An export promotion scheme and an export promotion agency are being
considered. In addition, it intends to study the effects on export incentives
of the existing system of protection with a view to making appropriate changes
when the balance of payments situation permits, and to bring the relative sup-
port prices of different agricultural commodities more closely into line with
relative world prices. There will also be a drive to increase invisible
exports, particularly earnings from transportation, tourism, and civil
engineering contracts abroad.
32.       The other targets, as stated in the Fourth Plan Strategy document,
include an average annual real GDP growth rate of 8 percent, based on a 5
percent growth rate in agriculture and a 12 percent growth rate in industry.
The unemployment rate is expected to remain unchanged. Real fixed investment
is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 12 percent; 44 percent will
be allocated to industry, 44 percent to the service sector, and 12 percent to
agriculture. Gross domestic savings are expected to rise from 16 to 21 per-
cent of GDP during the Plan period, implying a marginal savings ratio of 35
percent. The main contributor to this rapid growth of savings is expected to
be the public sector, whose revenues are expected to increase in real terms at
an average annual rate of 13 percent, as compared with a real growth rate of 9
percent for public consumption.
33.       If the export drive is successful and imports are appropriately
restrained, and assuming modest growth of workers' remittances, it should
be possible, despite an increasing burden of interest charges on rescheduled
debts to keep the balance of payments current account deficit to below $2.0
billion dollars per year during the Plan period. To finance these deficits,
and to meet the need to amortize considerable amounts of existing debt, it
will also be necessary for the government to continue its efforts to achieve
a much higher level of medium and long-term borrowing than in the past, as
regards both commitments and disbursements. But this depends on the assess-
ment of Turkey's creditworthiness, which in turn hinges on a successful export
effort.
34.       The extensive short-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, has adversely affected its pre-
viously rather attractive maturity structure, and has caused a sharp rise
in debt service payments. At the end of 1977, the country's total external
indebtedness amounted to approximately $11.2 billion, of which $0.5 billion
was private unguaranteed medium and long-term debt, and $4.2 billion was
public or publicly guaranteed medium and long-term debt. Of this, about one-
third was held by international organizations, mainly the Bank ($0.7 billion,
plus $0.6 billion committed but undisbursed) and the European Investment Bank;
and about one-half by foreign governments and government agencies, notably
those of the United States, West Germany, Canada and the Soviet Union.



- 12 -
35.       The remaining $6.5 biilion of Turkey's total external debt at the
end of 1977 consisted of short-term liabilities of various sorts. If the
consolidation arrangements currently under negotiation with the consortium of
commercial banks and creditor countries are successful, about $3.6 billion of
this will be converted into medium and long-term debt. These consolidation
arrangements consist of: (a) about $2.5 billion to be rescheduled by commer-
cial banks (para. 25); (b) guaranteed suppliers credits of abo,: $400 million
under the terms of the OECD sponsored agreement of May 1978 (para. 25); (c)
another $100 million of short-term credits to be refinance' by CMEA countries;
(d) refinancing of $350 million of oil credit owed to Iraq _or which agreement
was recently concluded; and (e) possible commercial refinancing of another
$250 million.
36.       The external debt management initiatives of the Government already
finalized, or well on their way to finalization, should help restore a more
attractive maturity structure to the Turkish external debt by transforming a
good portion of the short-term liabilities into medium-term obligations. How-
ever, a relatively high but manageable debt service ratio over the medium-term
must be anticipated as a result of the large short-term debts acquired in the
last 2 to 3 years and the terms finalized or likely to be finalized for the
above-mentioned reschedulings. In 1977, debt service payments, including
interest on short-term debt, amounted to 20.2 percent of exports of goods
and non-factor services plus workers' remittances. In 1978, after making
allowance for the rescheduled service payments, this ratio is likely to ris?
to around 28 percent. In subsequent years it will increase further, since
Turkey will have to take on new borrowings to maintain sound economic growth.
Taking this and the expected terms of the rescheduling into account, the debt
service ratio is likely to peak in the early 1980s at a high level of about
40 percent. This, however, should represent the culmination of the financial
consequences of the present crisis, and should be manageable before the ratio
declines thereafter, provided the export drive is sustained. Thus although
the balance of payments situation will remain tight in the medium-term future,
given sound economic and fiscal policies and careful debt management which
the new Government shows determination to pursue, Turkey continues to have a
substantial borrowing capacity for medium and long-term funds, and remains
creditworthy for Bank financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
37.       Prior to 1970, Bank assistance to Turkey was small and intermittent.
The 1970 stabilization program, and the consequent improvement in the economic
position of Turkey, especially in the balance of payments, enabled Bank Group
lending to be established at a higher level on a continuing basis. To date,
the Bank and IDA have lent $1,811 million to Turkey through 53 lending opera-
tions (or 47 projects, since both loans and credits were provided for some
projects), including 14 IDA credits totalling $178 million. Sixteen of these
operations have been in agriculture and rural development, including multi-
purpose projects, nineteen in industry including DFCs, ten in power, and the



- 13 -
rest in urban development, transportation, education and tourism. Agriculture
and rural development account for 28 percent of the funds lent, industry and
DFCs for about 37 percent and power for about 21 percent.    Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1978, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
38.       Implementation of projects has been satisfactory in the private sec-
tor, but much less so in the public sector where significant delays resulted
from political uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies, staffing
problems and related administrative delays. Disbursements have consequently
been slower than expected. To improve this situation, the Government and the
Bank in June 1975 initiated joint reviews to identify and resolve key bottle-
necks impeding satisfactory project implementation. So far, six such reviews
have taken place up to the end of 1977. The results have been mixed, with
improvements having occurred in administrative areas, e.g., training programs
and speeding-up of disbursement actions, but with modest impact on key policy
problems, whose resolution has been considerably delayed or prevented up to
now by frequent changes in previous coalition governments. Loan disbursements
as of September 30, 1978, amounted to about 69 percent of appraisal estimates.
39.       A comprehensive analysis of the main sector policy constraints which
lay at the root of inadequate project implementation was carried out with the
new Government in March 1978, and further discussed during my meetings with
the Prime Minister and other key ministers in April 1978. It is anticipated
that the new coordination mechanism for Bank projects being established in
Turkey following these discussions, will be able to take effective steps to
improve implementation of on-going projects, accelerate disbursements further,
and thus provide a sound basis for expanding the Bank's future contribution
to Turkey's development. Disbursement targets and changes in (or reasonable
interpretations of) those loan covenants which are difficult to implement,
given the country's laws and practices, were reviewed in June 1978 with the
new Turkish coordination team. This team is also setting up monitoring proce-
dures for achieving disbursement and implementation targets. The preparation
work and analysis done by this team prior to the June discussions were thorough
and realistic, unlike the past. They provide clear room for hope that the new
Government will be gradually able to achieve improvements in performance. The
sector policy perspectives outlined by the new Government, the actions already
initiated since coming to power, followed by efforts on the part of the admin-
istration and by Cabinet decisions to remove some of the bottlenecks, give
room for cautious optimism that project performance will take a turn for the
better and strengthen the Bank's activities in Turkey.
40.       Bank lending has so far been mainly directed at supporting Turkish
efforts to improve: (a) income distribution and the level of living stand-
ards, through rural development efforts, urban planning, and increased employ-
ment and income opportunities; (b) the long-term capacity to earn or save
foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agro-industrial exports
and tourism; (c) lagging public sector saving, through the encouragement of
improved management and financing of the investments and operations of key



- 14 -
SEEs; and (d) institution-building in key public services, through selective
assistance for infrastructure. In the light of the Government's program,
which will be progressively refined as the Fourth Five Year Plan (1979-83)
takes shape by the end of this year, it will be necessary for the Bank to
review jointly with the Turkish authorities how best its lending and technical
assistance can meet the above objectives, without facing the policy and insti-
tutional obstacles encountered in the past. Pending the outcome of this
review, which will be carried out in the coming months, it is proposed to
continue to devote the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors,
of which agriculture and industry are the most important. In agriculture,
emphasis is being put on rural development, strengthening of agricultural
credit mechanisms, and development of export-oriented production activities
like fruits and vegetables, and livestock products. In industry (including
DFCs), promotion of exports and employment, together with the gradual strength-
ening of the SEEs are the key tasks; hence this sector will also receive
significant support. This program is supplemented by projects in power, urban
development and transportation.
41.       An Imports Program Loan was approved by the Board earlier this
month. Other loan proposals being processed for presentation to the Execu-
tive Directors in this fiscal year, include Port Rehabilitation, a Second
IGSAS Fertilizer project in Central Anatolia and a Grain Storage project.
Projects under preparation, which should materialize in early FY80 and there-
after, include in agriculture: rural development in Erzurum, fruit and
vegetable exports, seed production and livestock development; in industry:
further assistance to TSKB - including for exports and small scale industry,
and modernization of the private and public sector textile production; in
urban development: sites and services, as also sewerage development in
Istanbul; and in power: hydroelectric facilities in Cukurova.
42.       At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 15 percent; its
share of Turkey's estimated total external debt (including short-term obli-
gations) was about 6.3 percent. The expected conversion of a large part of
this short-term debt into medium and long-term debt will cause the Bank's
share of medium and long-term debt to fall sharply, to around 10 percent by
1980. Thereafter, assuming the currently projected increase in Bank lending,
the share would increase. The Bank's share of service payments on medium and
long-term debt is expected to follow a similar path, dropping from 11.7 percent
in 1977 to about 8 percent in 1980, but rising thereafter.
43.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron .and steel products, and tourism, and has an
investment in the largest private development finance company, TSKB. As of
September 30, 1978, gross IFC commitments totalled $158 million, of which
$73 million were still held by IFC. In October, IFC lent $2.15 million to
help finance the production of motor bicycle engines. The Corporation is
currently investigating additional investment opportunities in the industrial
sector, including piston rings and cylinder liners, glass, and possibly
aluminium products.



- 15 -
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SUB-SECTOR
Background
44.       The share of crude oil in Turkey's overall energy requirements
has increased sharply since 1960 from 20 percent to 54 percent. Natural gas
has not, as yet, formed any significant part of Turkey's total energy consump-
tion. At the same time, the very limited domestic production of oil, which
had increased in the early sixties, started to decline after 1969 from a peak
annual production of 3.6 million tons to 2.7 millions tons by 1977, primarily
because producing fields were being depleted. Domestic oil production cur-
rently accounts for less than 20 percent of Turkey's overall crude oil
requirements of 14.6 million tons. As a result, crude oil imports have
increased rapidly to meet internal oil demand. The increased cost of these
oil imports, after the 1973 and subsequent escalations in international oil
prices, has had a severe and adverse impact on Turkey's balance of payments.
In 1977, the oil import bill alone was about US$1.5 billion dollars, out of a
total import bill of $5.8 billion. By contrast, the overall export earnings
in 1977 were US$1.7 billion dollars, i.e. marginally over the cost of oil
imports alone.
45.       Following the rise in international prices of crude, the Government
has generally striven to replace oil by other sources of energy, wherever
technically and economically possible. It has stressed the need to substi-
tute lignite and hydropower for oil, in power generation and to encourage
the use of coal by industry. Since 1973, production of lignite and hydro-
electricity has increased sharply and in part, helped stem the increasing
share of petroleum in Turkey's overall energy requirements. However, the
scope for replacing future petroleum consumption on a large scale by alterna-
tive energy supplies is limited, and even then, can take place only gradually.
The Government has also taken fiscal measures to restrain future oil consump-
tion. While past rates of growth in oil consumption may have been due to
inappropriate pricing policies, the Government increased oil prices sub-
stantially, as much as 80 percent, in September 1978. This increase was
on top of a large 50 percent increase decreed by the previous cabinet in
September 1977. These price increases, in addition to helping mobilize finan-
cial resources, should help in restraining the pace of increase in future oil
consumption. However, despite these measures and the efforts made to develop
indigenous energy resources, Turkey's dependence on imported oil is unlikely
to diminish significantly, and will continue to have a significant impact on
the country's balance of payments, which is expected to be very tight over
the medium-term future. In this context, the Government's efforts to augment
domestic oil production by all viable means, through exploration and intensive
exploitation through secondary recovery methods, as the proposed project
intends to do, make eminent sense.
Energy Consumption and Supply
46.       Total primary energy consumption in Turkey has increased from about
10.9 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE) in 1960 to about 29.4 million TOE in



- 16 -
1976. This reflects an annual average growth rate of 6.5 percent, while GNP
increased at virtually the same rate during the same period. The increase in
energy prices slowed down consumption rates in 1974, but growth rates picked
up to almost 8 percent per annum since then, again in line with GNP growth
rates. On the assumption that high economic growth rates will be sustained,
the government has estimated that future demand for energy will continue to
increase at an average annual rate of 8 percent per year until at least
1990. While the assumed high rate of economic growth is overoptimistic over
the next few years, the increase in energy demand would be still substantial
even on the basis of more modest growth targets. Per capita consumption of
energy in Turkey in 1975 was approximately 720 kgs of oil equivalent, as
compared with a world average of 1,360 kgs, an average for Western Europe of
2,700 kgs, and an average for developing countries of 270 kgs.
47.       Four primary commercial energy sources - petroleum, coal, lignite
and hydroelectricity - provide about three quarters of total energy supply,
with the balance being contributed by two non-commercial sources, wood and
animal/plant wastes. The energy supply pattern during 1960-1976 in percentage
terms is shown in the table below.
TURKEY: PRIMARY ENERGY SUPPLY
1960   1965    1970   1973   1974   1975    1976
-------------------Percentage-----------------
Commercial
Petroleum                      17.8    28.1   41.1   50.8   49.5    50.5   51.5
Hard coal                      20.7    18.5   14.6   11.0   11.5    10.0    8.5
Lignite                         7.1     8.9    8.9    8.9   10.2    10.1   10.2
Asphaltite                       -       -     0.1    0.5    0.6     0.7    0.6
Hydroelectricity                2.2    3.7     3.9    2.6    2.2     5.1    6.8
Subtotal                       47.8   59.2    68.6   73.8   74.0    76.4   77.6
Non-commercial
Wood                           34.0    26.1   19.6   16.4   16.6    15.1   14.4
Wastes                         18.2    14.7   11.9    9.8    9.4     8.5    8.0
Subtotal                       52.2   40.8    31.4   26.2   26.0   23.6    22.4
Total                         100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0
48.       The most important trends in the energy supply pattern since 1960
have been the decreasing share of coal and non-commercial energy sources
and the increasing share of petroleum, which now accounts for over half
of total energy consumption.   Until the early 1960s, coal was Turkey's most
important domestic commercial energy resource, representing 21 percent of
total energy consumption in 1960. This share started declining during the
1960s, partly due to rising costs, which made coal uneconomic relative to
crude oil prior to 1973. At the same time, coal reserves are substantial
(some estimates indicate over 1.2 billion MT in place of which 0.3 billion MT



- 17 -
are classified as proven) and the government plans to raise production sig-
nificantly from the present level of 4.6 million MT, primarily to meet the
steel industry's requirements.
49.       While the share of hard coal in Turkey's energy supply has shown a
declining trend since 1960, lignite has been making a gradual, but increasing
contribution, particularly in thermal electric power generation. Lignite
production in 1976 was 10.5 million MT, compared with an annual production of
2.9 MT in 1960. While the total lignite reserve potential is estimated to be
about of 5 billion MT, the quality is low and commercial exploitation may not
be economically viable for all of it. Besides such exploitation requires
extensive investments and management capacity. Given the capacity of the SEE
responsible for coal/lignite development, the development of this resource is
likely to be slow at best.
50.       Hydroelectric energy's contribution to total energy consumption has
been small; in years 1975 and 1976, however, with the completion of large
hydroelectric schemes its share has doubled. Turkey's hydroelectric energy
potential will continue to be a significant factor in future energy supply.
Calculations indicate that approximately 20,000 MW is economic to exploit;
nearly 20 percent is developed or under construction. However, hydro poten-
tial in Turkey requires massive investments and generation sources are far
removed from consuming centers, requiring additional heavy transmission
investments. Besides this, given the management and related long-term prob-
lems of SEEs dealing with power, the development of this energy resource is
likely to be rather gradual. Turkey's nuclear energy raw material reserves
are very small, though reserve exploration studies are in progress.
51.       Petroleum consumption in 1977 was approximately 14.6 million tons,
equivalent to about 300,000 barrels/day of which only 2.7 million tons or
55,000 barrels/day were produced domestically. Amongst petroleum products,
fuel oil, which is used primarily for thermoelectric power generation and in
the industrial sector, accounts for more than 40 percent of total consumption;
diesel oil, used principally in the transportation sector, accounts for a
further 35 percent and gasoline for 18 percent. However, given the said
prospects and difficulties facing the development of the other energy sources,
Turkey's dependence on oil as an energy source must be expected to continue in
the foreseeable future.
52.       Finally, with increasing industrialization and migration of popula-
tion away from the rural areas, wood and wastes sources which contributed more
than half of Turkey's energy supply in 1960, have declined to less than a
quarter by 1976, a trend that is expected to continue.
Organization and Structure of the Oil Sub-Sector
53.       The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, established in 1963,
has official jurisdiction over the development of energy resources in Turkey
including petroleum resources. The exploration, development, production,
operation and legislative control of petroleum resources (as well as of water,



- 18 -
mineral and other energy resources) come under the Ministry and is regulated
by the Petroleum Law of 1954. The two most important public sector organiza-
tions involved in the development of petroleum resources, and which fall under
the jurisdication of that Ministry, are TPAO (see paragraphs under Borrower) and
the Mineral Research Institute (MTA). TPAO deals with the exploration of
petroleum and natural gas resources, and MTA with that of coal, lignite,
asphaltite and radioactive minerals. The latter coordinates its exploration
programs with TPAO. MTA's activities in oil exploration are confined to the
undertaking and evaluation of geological and geophysical studies, and some
drilling activities for TPAO, but it has no responsibility for development or
production.
54.       Domestic petroleum production is principally in the hands of three
producing companies: two foreign oil companies, Shell and Mobil, and the
Turkish Petroleum Corporation (TPAO); a fourth producing company, ERSAN,
privately owned by Turkish investors, makes up the remainder. The aggregate
production of both the Shell and Mobil producing fields, which are located in
Siirt District of S.E. Turkey, has declined sharply since 1970. Despite this
decline in production Shell and Mobil together still account for approximately
60 percent of domestic output. Shell continues to be the largest single
producer with approximately 1.25 million tons in 1976 out of a total domestic
production of 2.6 million tons; Mobil produced 0.24 million tons in 1976.
TPAO accounts for about one million tons per annum and production from TPAO
fields, most of which are also located in S.E. Turkey, has been virtually
stable over the last decade. ERSAN exploits a small oil field located in the
Gaziantep District of Southern Turkey which, in 1976, produced 13,200 tons
i.e. less than 0.5 percent of domestic production.
55.       TPAO group owns three of the four existing refineries in Turkey.     It
refined nearly 11 million tons of crude oil in 1977, accounting for over 70
percent of total crude oil refined in Turkey in that year. The other refinery
is a private joint venture in which Mobil, Shell and British Petroleum account
for the majority of the capital. The expansion of TPAO group's two existing
refineries is well advanced and is expected to be completed in 1979 and 1981
respectively, while actions for setting up a new inland refinery are also in
progress. These investments would increase the total refining capacity to 29
million tons by 1982, which is expected to take care of Turkey's refining
needs till the middle 1980s. When these refinery capacity expansions are
completed, product imports, which are presently needed due to lack of adequate
refining capacity and their product mix, may be eliminated. Further expansion
will be initiated only in early 1980s, for which TPAO is making preliminary
studies for two new refineries, one at Adana (4 million TPY) and Samsun (10
million TPY capacity) on the Black Sea coast. TPAO also owns and operates two
oil pipelines: (a) a 400 km pipeline from the oil fields around Batman (the
principal TPAO producing region) to Dortyol on the Gulf of Iskerendun; (b) the
Turkish portion of a 981 km pipeline system from Northern Iraq to the Turkish
mediterranean coast which supplies crude from the Kirkuk field in Iraq. The
marketing and distribution of petroleum products is carried out by public,
domestic and foreign petroleum companies.



- 19 -
Petroleum Exploration Activity
56.       Turkey's hydrocarbon potential is considered reasonably favorable,
especially in the Siirt Province in Southeastern Turkey, and in offshore
coastal areas of the Black Sea and the Aegean Sea; but the probability of
finding large accumulations which are commercially exploitable, is regarded as
limited. On the basis of past exploration activity and combined geological
basin and probability analyses, the country's potential has been variously
estimated between 690 million metric tons of oil in place, to more optimistic
estimates that have ranged up to 10-15 times this figure. Petroleum reserves,
however, on the basis of currently known resources, have been estimated at
only 57 million MT. This is well below the average world ratio of proven to
ultimate resources (about 40 percent) showing the relative underdevelopment of
this sector in comparison with its potential.
57.       Petroleum exploration activity in Turkey in recent years has been
undertaken almost exclusively by TPAO. Although seventeen companies were
officially engaged in the exploration and production of oil in 1975 - fifteen
of which were foreign companies - the level of activity undertaken by out-
side companies has been small in comparison to TPAO's continuing exploration
program. This state of affairs is attributable to two principal factors:
(a) the likelihood that new discoveries will consist of small individual
accumulations with relatively high development costs; (b) the impact of Decree
20, issued in 1974, which effectively reduced well-head prices of new crude
oil discoveries well below import parity (see para 59). The exploration
activities of important producing companies such as Shell (still the largest
domestic producer) have been at a low level since 1960, partly for the above
reasons, but also in part because TPAO holds most of the more favorable areas
under license. Approximately 80 percent of oil exploration drilLing in 1976
was undertaken by TPAO. This proportion is likely to increase rather than
decrease unless incentives are restored by increasing the price for crude
from newly discovered oil fields to something approaching import parity.
58.       TPAO's exploration program has recently been severely hindered by
the country's critical shortage of foreign exchange. In 1977, the total
investment in exploration amounted to over $60 million and 59 exploration
wells were drilled; of these seven were reported to be oil discoveries.
Though the 1978 exploration program will be reduced in scope (only 32 wells
are planned) primarily as a result of the severe budget stringencies, TPAO is
planning to increase its overall exploration effort in the upcom-ing 5 years.
In the short-term, however, TPAO's ability to sustain an exploration program
of this magnitude will be essentially determined by the availabiLity of
budgeted financial resources, and especially the availability of foreign
exchange for essential equipment and supplies. In the medium-term, if inroads
are to be made in alleviating Turkey's increasing dependence on imported oil
products, it is desirable that future exploration effort be at least shared
between TPAO and foreign oil companies. There are already encouraging signs
in this direction with discussions underway with the Soviet petroleum industry
on new concession areas, and with North American companies also, the latter
particularly in regard to offshore exploration. It is understood that TPAO is



- 20 -
also discussing with Shell and Mobil the possibility of joint ventures on some
of the licenses held by TPAO, for which it lacks the resources to explore. If
such overtures lead to a more active participation of foreign oil companies in
Turkey, the prospects for finding new resources of indigenous crude oil by
1985 could become promising.
Oil Policy
59.       The Government regulates the price of domestically produced crude
and those of refined products. Until the world oil price increases in 1973,
prices were determined on the basis of import parity. A price stabilization
fund was used to eliminate day-to-day fluctuations in import prices. This
fund was marginally in surplus until the end of 1973. However, following
the increase in international prices, in January 1974, the Government, with
a view to controlling inflation, abandoned the principle of import parity,
and increased the domestic crude price from about $2.80 per barrel to about
$5.20 per barrel,which remains the price today. This price was also used for
determining prices of refined products. Since a large part of Turkey's oil
consumption was met by imported oil at quadrupled world prices, the stabiliza-
tion fund incurred large deficit (TL 14 billion in FY77/78) and these losses
were met from the Government budget. But in September 1977 petroleum product
prices were increased by about 50 percent and were further increased in
September 1978 by about 80 percent, thus finally bringing them into line
with prices in other countries. These increases are expected to yield
TL 21 billion annually, which should eliminate the deficit of the oil price
stabilization fund, and also help reduce the rate of future increase in oil
consumption.
60.       As mentioned earlier, following the rise in crude oil prices after
1973, Turkish policy has aimed at accelerating the development of known
indigenous resources, primarily lignite, hydroelectricity and crude oil. It
has generally endeavoured, as it should, to replace oil by other sources of
energy, wherever technically and economically possible. However, although
the production of lignite and hydroelectricity has increased sharply since
1973, and in part, helped stem the increasing share of petroleum in Turkey's
overall energy requirements, there are substantial technical, investment and
management constraints of a long-term nature, which will permit the develop-
ment of these energy resources only over an extended period of time. In the
foreseeable future, Turkey's dependence on oil will therefore continue to be
significant. As a result, apart from measures to develop other indigenous
energy resources as possible substitutes for oil, and to restrain the pace
of oil consumption, through drastic price increases, the Government has
basically adopted two approaches towards increasing domestic oil production:
(a) the application of secondary recovery methods to existing oil fields; and
(b) expansion of petroleum exploration activity by increasing the resources
available to TPAO, by encouraging joint-venture exploration efforts in col-
laboration with foreign oil companies and by providing increased incentives
for offshore exploration activities. However, despite these combined policy
elements for the oil sector, Turkey is unlikely to attain its stated objective



- 21 -
in its Fourth Plan during the next decade of meeting a minimum of 60 percent
of the anticipated demand for oil from domestic sources, unless sizeable
indigenous crude oil or natural gas reserves are developed in the near future
from known or newly discovered fields.
Previous Bank Lending to Energy Sector
61.       Bank group lending in the energy field has been concentrated on the
power subsector, and related lignite mining development. This will be the
Bank's first operation in the oil subsector. Since 1952 the Bank has made
nine loans and a technical assistance grant (total US$356.65 million) and
IDA has extended three credits (total US$55.7 million) for the development of
the power sector. These comprised loans/credit for three hydropower projects,
of which two are multi-purpose; two thermal power plants (oil-fueled and
lignite); a lignite mine; and transmission and distribution network projects.
The Technical Assistance Grant was for help in reorganizing Turkey's power
sector. The first five loans/credits were for works in the service area of
the Cukurova Electric Company (CEAS) and were re-lent in whole or in part to
CEAS.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background and History
62.       The application of enhanced oil recovery (EOR) methods 1/ has been
given most serious consideration for the TPAO oil fields in southeastern
Turkey, in particular to the Bati Raman field. Primary recovery from this
field has been low, although the estimated oil in place is large. The Bati
Raman field is the largest in Turkey, located in south Turkey, in Siirt
Province, approximately 140 kilometers east of the city of Diyarbakir and 74
kilometers north of the Turkish Syrian frontier (see Map). The field, wholly
owned and operated by TPAO, was discovered by TPAO in 1961. Oil production
commenced in 1962.
63.       The reserves of oil in place in the reservoir are estimated to
be 1,850 million barrels. Of this, only 25.2 million barrels (or 1.36 percent)
had been recovered by January 1978. The crude oil is a heavy, viscous,
asphaltic type, having an average gravity of 130 API (American Petroleum
Institute gravity classification). Ultimate recovery by primary methods is
estimated to be only 1.5 percent of the oil in place. The reasons for this
very low primary recovery, are to be found in the highly viscous character
of the oil, the geological structure of the oil field and the absence of any
effective natural drive mechanism. In view of the increasing oil demand in
Turkey and the huge and increasing burden on the import bill for oil imports
1/   A short, technical annex summarizing the principles underlying the most
common of enhanced oil recovery methods is provided in Annex IV.



- 22 -
since 1974, the Government and TPAO have sought to increase oil extraction
from this largest of Turkish oil fields, as a means of augmenting domestic
crude production. To date, field testing has been limited only to water
flooding operations, chiefly because a more extensive application of other
enhanced recovery techniques was considered uneconomic prior to the 1973
increase in oil prices. Water flooding is expected to raise recovery to
around 6 percent of the oil in the reservoir, which would still leave about
1,700 million barrels of oil in the reservoir.
64.       In this context, TPAO approached the Bank informally in late 1977,
regarding the possibility of obtaining Bank financing for a program of enhanced
oil recovery (EOR) from the Bati Raman oil field. In April 1978, the govern-
ment confirmed that high priority had been accorded the Bati Raman project in
its overall investment plans and during my visit to Turkey, the Energy Minister
specifically requested Bank financing for the initial preparative and engineer-
ing studies leading to pilot plant testing in the field, for which UNDP funds
were not available because of prior commitments to other projects.
65.       Following a Bank mission in April/May 1978, it was agreed that it
would be prudent to implement the actual enhanced recovery project in three
distinct phases:
(a) Phase One - A comparative evaluation study of the various
possible EOR methods applicable to the geological structure
of the Bati Raman reservoir.
(b) Phase Two - A field pilot testing plant of the selected EOR
method, or methods, in the reservoir itself.
(c) Phase Three - If the pilot test phase proves successful, the
pilot would become part of the full-scale EOR project and
the tested EOR method would be applied to the entire field.
The proposed engineering loan would cover the foreign exchange requirements
for Phase One of the project as well as the design and detailed engineering
of the Pilot Plant in Phase Two.
66.       Thereafter, an appraisal mission visited Turkey in July 1978.     It
agreed with Government and TPAO on the draft terms of reference on which con-
sultants would be invited to submit proposals for the above-mentioned items
of work. A list of reputable and experienced consultants in this highly
specialized field was drawn up by TPAO, which was acceptable to the Bank.
Proposals were invited from these consultants. By mid-September proposals
from 12 firms were received by TPAO. Against this background negotiations
were held in Washington between October 18-20, 1978. The negotiating team
led by Mr. A. Yoruk, Acting Financial Counsellor, Turkish Embassy, included
Mr. Melih Genca, Deputy General Manager of TPAO.
67.       During these negotiations, TPAO's evaluation of the technical pro-
posals were received and its recommendations for selection were discussed



- 23 -
and found to be satisfactory. The price proposal from the selected firm
has been received and discussed preliminarily with TPAO. The price proposal
is reasonable and offers sufficient basis to expect that the detailed nego-
tiations with the selected firm could be finalized by TPAO around mid-November.
The negotiated contract will be signed by TPAO after the proposed project has
been considered by the Executive Directors, and work begun under the contract
by early December 1978.
The Borrower
68.       TPAO falls within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Energy and
National Resources. TPAO was established in 1954 by the Government under the
Petroleum law and is involved in all aspects of the oil business: exploration,
production, refining and, through its subsidiaries, transportation and distri-
bution; TPAO also has subsidiaries engaged in the production of petrochemicals
and in the marketing of liquid petroleum gas. Currently, in terms of assets,
TPAO is amongst the largest state petroleum corporations in Europe. It is
owned 94 percent by the state (through the Turkish Treasury, state enterprises
and pension fund), with the remaining 5 percent held by the Army Mutual Fund,
and by private insurance companies and industries. As of December 31, 1977,
TPAO had total assets of almost 12 billion TL ($450 million), a net worth of 4
billion TL ($160 million) and a reported net profit before tax of almost 350
million TL ($14 million). It had a debt equity ratio of 25:75. Its income
has ranged between 10 percent and 25,percent of equity in the last four years.
69.       Structured as a private joint stock company, TPAO operates under the
Petroleum law, and its operations are subject to close regulation by the Gov-
ernment; like all other petroleum companies operating in Turkey, its prices
are controlled by the Government. Following approval by its own management,
TPAO's annual budget is submitted to the state planning organization and its
investment program is incorporated in the national budget. Although the
Council of Ministers controls the majority of appointments to TPAO's board,
it has autonomy in the day-to-day operations and remains relatively free of
political pressure. Its board has recently been reconstituted and a new
president, Mr. Ertan, appointed, who is a capable and experienced public
administrator. TPAO is also not subject to Law 440 governing state economic
enterprises and has freedom to set its own personnel regulations, and its
salary structure is among the highest, amongst SEEs. The total number of
employees in TPAO in 1977 was approximately 7,000, almost 60 percent of which
were located in the Batman district, the principal oil producing area in
Turkey. In general, TPAO's professional staff is experienced and capable,
having extensive experience in all aspects of the oil industry.
70.       TPAO has about 295 oil wells in production and the company's annual
crude oil production is currently about 1 million tons, representing 40 per-
cent of Turkey's annual crude oil production. There is one natural gas field
currently in production in Thrace, producing about 2-2.5 million cubic feet
per day which supplies a nearby cement factory. TPAO also undertakes the bulk
of petroleum exploration activities in Turkey. During 1976, TPAO carried out
93,400 meters of exploration drilling on 50 new wells, as a result of which



- 24 -
5 small but commercial fields were added to the existing fields. While it
plans to intensify its oil exploration program, both on and off-shore, it has
been affected by lack of adequate equipment resulting from the country's pres-
ent foreign exchange difficulties. The TPAO group has 3 refineries located
at Izmit, Izmir, and Batman respectively, with a current total capacity of
approximately 10 million tons per annum. This is about 70 percent of the
country's refining capacity. TPAO also owns and operates a 499 km pipeline
running from the oil fields around Batman to Dortyol on the Gulf of Iskenderun.
Project Description
71.       The proposed project comprises the following components:
(a) Comparative Feasibility Study. A comparative study would be
undertaken of the various possible EOR methods applicable to
the Bati Raman reservoir, based on the physical properties of
the oil and the reservoir rock. The principal objective of
this study would be to determine the most suitable enhanced
recovery technology applicable to the reservoir; the study
would also include preparation of design parameters and of an
estimate of the capital requirements for the pilot plant
stage of the project (approximately 55 man-months plus
specialized computer services).
(b) Design engineering for Pilot Plant. Based on the findings
of the comparative feasibility study and the agreed design
parameters, the detailed design and engineering of the
recommended pilot plant would be undertaken. The engineering
services would cover the work up to the drawing up of tech-
nical specifications and preparation of working drawings
and tender documents (approximately 55 man-months).
(c) Core Sampling of Reservoir Rock. The number and quality of
the core samples of the reservoir rock obtained to date from
the Bati Raman wells provide an inadequate data base to permit
a detailed geological description of the Bati Raman reservoir.
As a result, new core and fluid samples need to be taken and
analyzed in laboratories for permeability and combustibility
tesLs, since these will form a vital element in predicting the
performance of the reservoir under any system of enhanced recovery.
The proposed core sampling services would include the provision of
specialized equipment and the services of a drilling supervisor.
A minimum of 10 new wells would be drilled and cored through the
entire thickness of the reservoir. 1/ An additional 4 man-months
of consultant services may atso be required to assist TPAO in making
a geological description of the reservoir on Lhe basis of the new
1/   Tthe drilling and coring of additional wells will be undertaken by TPAO.
These wells will eventually be required as part of the overall enhanced
cecovery program; tLhe r loCaL i0on would he selected so as to complement
xistLtng core daLa.



- 25 -
core-samples obtained with specialized core sampling equip-
ment (core-barrels and diamond bits).
(d) Overseas Training. Specialized training abroad in EOR tech-
niques, geological evaluation and petroleum reservoir engineer-
ing techniques, including inter alia, the development and
application of computer models to simulate the operation of
heavy oil reservoirs.
The Loan and Project summary is attached. This President's Report is also
intended to serve as a staff appraisal report for the proposed engineering
loan.
Project Costs
72        The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $3.0 million
equivalent. Its foreign exchange component is approximately $2.5 million (85
percent) to be fully covered by the proposed engineering loan. The local
currency component of $0.5 million equivalent will be borne by TPAO. Contin-
gencies included in the total cost estimate is $300,000 or about 10 percent
of the base (1978) costs. The contingency element is relatively modest, since
the cost estimates reflect the price proposal of the selected consultant firm
on items (1), (2) and (4) of the total costs detailed below:
Local     Foreign      Total
-------- $ Million --------
(1)  Comparative feasibility study        0.20        1.00       1.20
(2) Engineering design for pilot
plant                              0.15        0.65       0.80
(3) Core sampling equipment,
materials and advisory services    0.05        0.50       0.55
(4)  Overseas training                    0.05        0.10       0.15
Subtotal                             0.45        2.25       2.70
Contingencies                        0.05        0.25       0.30
Total                                0.50        2.50       3.00
73.       The consultancy services for the comparative feasibility study and
engineering design reflect the aggregate man-month requirements and unit costs
indicated in the selected consultant's proposal. The comparative feasibility
study would involve about 55 man-months at a unit cost of approximately
$10,000 per man-month. For the design engineering services, about 55 man-
months at a unit cost of $7,000 per man-month are likely to be involved. The
estimates include a significant allocation of computer time and software
royalty. These estimates based on actual price proposals received from
selected consultants are comparable for similar consulting studies in the
specialized field of enhanced oil recovery.



- 26 -
Project Implementation
74.       The comparative feasibility study would be carried out by the
selected consultants, under the supervision of TPAO. The consultancy team
would consist of several experienced geologists and petroleum engineers
assisted by individual specialists with a background in computer techniques
used in studying reservoir behavoir. It is desirable for the purposes of
maintaining continuity, that the consulting firm selected to undertake the
comparative feasibility study should also be responsible for the design
engineering of the pilot plant. Accordingly, the selected firm may, with
the approval of TPAO, undertake to acquire expertise outside of its organiza-
tion, particularly to perform certain specialized engineering tasks. The
consultants would continue to be employed under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank and to the Borrower (Section 3.02 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
75.        It is expected that this study will take about 8-9 months to com-
plete. Assuming that the consultants can begin work by early December 1978,
it should be completed by July/August 1979. Its recommendations will be
jointly reviewed by TPAO and the Bank around August/September 1979, at which
time, the decision on whether to proceed with pilot plant testing, and the
method for doing so, would be made. It is anticipated that the design para-
meters and the estimated capital cost of such a plant, sufficient for Bank
appraisal would become available by October 1979. While the pilot plant
project is then processed, assuming that the Bank finds the proposal viable,
the detailed engineering work, including preparation of specifications and
tender documents, will be pursued. Should such a pilot project be ultimately
approved by the Executive Directors, the funds needed for consultants' assis-
tance in the selection of equipment and supervision over construction of
pilot plant and implementation of the pilot project could be included as part
of such an eventual project. Hence, the proposed engineering loan includes
financing of engineering services only up to the stage of preparation of
technical specifications and tender documents.
76.       The training services for TPAO personnel would be provided, in con-
sultation with the Bank, through training overseas at academic institutions,
in engineering companies and at the site of specific heavy oil recovery
operations (Section 3.04 of Draft Loan Agreement). The core sampling equip-
ment to be financed is of a highly specialized kind and does not lend itself
to procurement through normal international competitive bidding. Since the
amount of core and fluid sampling equipment to be purchased is relatively
modest (approximately $400,000) it is recommended that the core barrels and
diamond bits be procured through international shopping among a minimum of
three specialized companies that supply these items (Section 2.03 of the Draft
Loan Agreement).
Financing and Disbursement
77.        The proposed engineering loan of $2.5 million would be refinanced
tinder any later loan Lhat the Bank might make for the pilot plant project.
Disbursements from the proposed loan would be at the rate of 100 percent of



- 27 -
foreign expenditures for consultants' services, goods and overseas training of
TPAO's staff. The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed loan
is shown in the loan and project summary.
Project Justification and Benefits
78.       The application of enhanced recovery techniques to the Bati Raman
oil field provides the immediate possibility of increasing domestic oil
production in Turkey, until exploration results in discovery and development
of new commercially exploitable reserves. The Bati Raman field has been
developed to a point where all the reserves, i.e. 1,850 million barrels can
be classified in the "proven" category. Almost all enhanced oil recovery
methods, will bring about an enhanced oil recovery as compared to primary
recovery, which has been low because of the characteristics of Bati Raman
crude. Thus no doubt exists concerning the potential for increased production
from the field. The uncertainty therefore revolves only around which enhanced
recovery method will lead to optimal recovery, taking into account the oil
recovery factor and the size of the capital investment.
79.       On the basis of:   (a) a capital investment in 1978 prices for the
carbon dioxide (C02) injection method of $300 million, $200 million of which
is phased, equally over the first five years and the remaining $100 million
over the final five years; (b) life-time (20 years) operating expenses of $200
million; tc) an incremental recovery factor of 7 percent in which annual
production would rise gradually from its present level of 1.5 million barrels
to a peak production of 14 million barrels p.a. after ten years, and would
decline thereafter for ten years; (d) world market price of $10 per barrel
(in 1978 prices) of equivalent crude oil of API 8-10 at the Batman refinery;
the economic rate of return would be 20 percent. Only in the event that
incremental recovery should fall below 5 percent of the initial oil in place
does the full-scale enhanced recovery project become economically marginal.
Because of surplus capacity in refining and transport facilities in the Batman
area, Bati Raman crude oil production would have to increase substantially
before it would be necessary to invest in further processing and transport
facilities. The economic viability of any enhanced oil recovery method is
therefore dependent solely on the volume of incremental crude oil which can be
recovered from the reservoir as a result of the application of EOR techniques.
80.       The proposed engineering project will enable TPAO to make a com-
parative evaluation study of alternative enhanced recovery techniques to
determine the technically and economically most viable method of enhanced oil
recovery technique applicable to the Bati Raman oil field, and its application
on a pilot basis, will help to confirm that the recommended method(s) can be
economically applied to the whole field. The cost of the pilot plant is
likely to be 10 percent of the total investment cost. If successful, the
pilot project will be incorporated into the ultimate full-scale enhanced
oil recovery project and its cost recovered. By working closely with TPAO
staff in the preparation of the terms of reference for the comparative evalua-
tion study, the Bank has been able to ensure that comprehensive consideration



- 28 -
will be given to a full range of possible EOR technologies, rather than
limiting consideration to a single enhanced recovery technology selected by
TPAO primarily on the basis of theoretical and laboratory studies. As a
result, the approach adopted should help ensure, both economically and
technically, an optimal method for enhanced recovery of crude oil from the
Bati Raman field and would be tested on a pilot basis before large scale
investment is undertaken. Finally, the practical experience acquired by
TPAO staff during the implementation of this project - which will include
an important overseas training component in this specialized area of the
petroleum industry - will have direct applicability in other nearby TPAO
oil fields, the recovery from which could also be improved significantly
by applying EOR methods.
Project Risk
81.       As the proposed project is a comparative evaluation study of
alternative enhanced oil recovery techniques applicable to the Bati Raman
oil field, to determine the optimal method, and thereafter to design a pilot
project for field testing of the determined method, the project involves
almost no risk. The investment in the engineering project could be unproduc-
tive, only if the comparative evaluation study concludes that none of the
presently available enhanced recovery techniques could be economically applied
to the Bati Raman field. We do not consider this a realistic possibility.
Moreover, the almost negligible risk incurred in this project will virtually
eliminate the technical risks otherwise inherent in the much costlier full-
scale EOR project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between TPAO and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan and Guarantee Agreements.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 8, 1978



TAbLE 3A                                            ANNEX I _      ,
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                         Page 1 of 4
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
TURKEY                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       780.6                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     558.4                       1960      1970    ESTIMATE          COLOMBIA       IRAN           ITALY**
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -   -  -- - - -- - -  - --_ _  - - - - -   -- - - _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   - -_
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    270.0*    soo.o*4 1110.0-*/i            350.0*      670.0*     1910.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           27.8      35.6       42. 2              20.6        29.0       53.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       35.0      46.0       53.0               18.0        18.0      178.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        52.0      65.0       74,0               93.0      107.0       266.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         44.8      40.6       39.4               44.3/a     45.9        18.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE l/THOU.AV)          16.9      14.4       12.5               I1.0        18.5        9.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       187.0/ab 153.0/a        *-               70.0/b    140.0        29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.3      54,4       56.9               58.5       48.8        71.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9       2.8/b,c    2.3                3.2         3.4        1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 3.0       2.5        2.5                2.9         3.1        0.8
URBAN                                 5.1/a     4.9/d      4.2                5.5 t       4.8        0.8
URBAN POPULATION C% OF TOTAL)          31.9      38.7       42.6               60.3        41.0       51.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.3      41.7      41.7                46.6       46.0/a      24.4
I5 TO 64 YEARS                       55.2      54.0      53.9                50.4       50s.O       65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.5       4.3        4.4                3.0        4.0Th      10.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8       0.9        0.8                1.0         1.0/a      0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0       1.1/e      1.2 L              1.6/d       I-9/a      0.9/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..        ..         ,,              306.9      662.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            5.3       8.2         ,.                 ..        10.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       13000.0__14000 o/f16400.0/b               6200.0     6700.0     19600.o
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE 1%)        71.7       63.4      52.5/c              39.0       43.0        19,0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           9.7/d    11.9&      13.37T              7.0         2.1        3.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD 8Y-
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS            33.0/e f 32.8A      28.0/e              3-.9/      29.7 /b
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS            6.0/t     60.6-     56.7                60.1 7f    54.4 7        ,
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.271i t  26.96    56                   3.5 j      4.0 7        ,
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEIJLDS           1o:Q9.        5                          10- ' Te   12.7 W
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..      39.0 /1      ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10X OWNERS           ..       0. 7T       ..                 ..i
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3220.0!a  2250.0     1880.0             2110.0     3300.0       550.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3260.00h  1770.0/1 1140.0 /f                ..     3230.0       470.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           650.0     500.0      470.0              430.0      780.0        go.o
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        110.0     112.0      113.0              92.0         90.0      126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             75*3       78.0      76.0                51.0       53.0       100.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           .       22.0/k    24.7                29.0/f      14.0/c     42.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            16.0/e    14.7/1       ..                8.4          ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       75.0     109.0      108.0              100.0       83.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     14.0      28.0       30.0               23.0        26.0       60.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0      11.0       11.0               11.0        12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     18.0      14.0       15.0               20.0         3.0       26.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                40.0/i    55.0/m       .                73.0          ..       97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER POOM (URBAN)                2.0       1.9         ..                 ..         2.2/a,d 
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      81.0      66.0      52.0                  ..        B7.0/a,e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
({ OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 29.0      40.0      57.0                  ..        25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY {X)                    2.0      18.0         *                             4.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         49.0      89.0      107.0              105.0        93.0      218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0       4.0        8.0               11.0        10.0      190.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          102.0     247.0      400.0              414.0       246.0     2262.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.8       0.7        2.3                2.7         0.4         5.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



NMOES
MIrSeS otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 end 1971, ad for Moat Recen t Istimote between
19 73 ad 1976.
oS    CNP Per capita data are based on the world Book Atlas methodology (1974-76 boatis).
..    The long-term strategy of Turkish planning corrently giv-     the 1970 level of Italy .. its objeotiva.
TURKEY       1960    Ia   1955-60;    lb  Derived from ample survey cetimatee (9,700 households), night be ondereatimated'           Ic  CIi"lian labor force (1965);
/d  1965, iTolodiog peak    eanagricoltural on.deremployset ,        Ia  1963;     If  Dieposable incme;       /&  1962;    lb   Incloding
esa istant morons and midivea, /1 Per.o.a six years and -ovr who tell the cenoc takers that they can, read and write..
1970     /   1967,    lb  toclodes 17 eas tern provinces      Ic   1965-67;    /d   1965-70;     /a  Ratio of populetiom  onder 15 and 65 and ovar
to total labor force;     /f   Civilian labor force,     /    Including peak season `gricolturel ondereploymet;         /b  Disposable
imoone (1968);     It  %gricoltura1 lend (1973), ignoring landless households;        Li. Incloding  assistant m.ore. end midwi-ee;
lb 1964-66; /1 1967-689 In Persona ala yeare and wovr who tell tbe ceneas takers that they can read and write.
MOST RECEMT ESTIKATE; Ia Ratio of populetion under 1) end 65 and over t-o total labor force, lb Civilian labor force (1977);
/c  1977;     /d  Including peak seeon agriculturl ondereploymnt (1977) ;           Is  Diepo.able incom    (1973),
77 Including eeaistart morass and niAivee..
COLOMBIA     1970    /a   Official setimatee hesed on registretion, skat average crude birth rete for 1960-71 as 36;        lb   Rate based on banial permits;
/c  196.4-70;    /d  Ratio of popolation onder 1) end 65 and over to total labor force;         le  Ecoanoically active popolation;
77 196.4-66.
IceN         1970    /a  1966,     /b  urban only;     Ic  1964-66;     Id  Enclodea omedic tribes;       Is  Inside only.
ITALY        1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to toatl labor force,         lb  Hoepita1 personnel.
1/ 1977 GNP' per capita                                                                                                         October 12, 1978
DEPFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou -e)                                                                    Poculetion par coric a oreo   - Popolacim  divdad by nombe   of practicing
Total1   Total arface araa coprIsing land area and inlend weters.                         mi  andfemal graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" mare...So ad
Agric. -Ksot recemt aetiate of agricoltcorel arsea used temporarily or P.-n -aceIltacy parsons witb training or enperiscre.
netly for  rope, paturea, market 6 kitchen gardens or to lie failma.                Population pear hossital bed - Population divded by comber of hospital bade
available in public and private genera and sJpecislied hospital1 and
IMPl ear Paita (USOl - GNP per capita astinatac Stccurrec narktc pricesa,                 rehbilitation centrs.; eaclode  cnuring boase and aetablialoseta for
cacaaed by em   conversion method as World Back Atlas (1973-75 baste);              costodial and prevetive care.
1960. 1910 and 1975 data.                                                            Per ...nit. sandy  f calorisa f  of rornct)-Compac-d Ore an-gy
P.P.l.tion and                                                     :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qo:ivalast of oat food Supopliaa avilable to country par capita par day.
Poueio  n  ital statistic'1 ailblespplies omprias domestic prodootios, iparts less Snports, sod
poonlacion (ndva      ilo)      o   f July first;  if not available, -ovrage             changee in Stock, cat Supplies  culode animal feed, Seeds, quantities used
of tw  and-yasr estimates; 1'40" 1970 and 1975 data,                                    in fond pronessing and losans in distribation; r-quirenanta were stimacad
by PAD based on physiological neds for carna   activity and heelth comid-
Population damarf-toar sooare he - Mid-year population per quare kilascr                 ering   nviroamta1 temperature, body wighta, age and an distributioms of
(100 bactarso.o    tota  are.                                                          population, and allowing 1% for waste at houaebold lJ.-J.
popuatin doair - or suavehe  f asric  land - Coopu red as above for            Per cania sanely of crateic fere,a oar day) - Protein contact of per capits
agricultural land onl.'                                                                ot supply   f od per day; met Supply of fond is defined as above; require-
mote for all caostrieseatabMiabed by USDA Econoic R...arch OSr-ices
Viral raciatics                                                                           provide for a siiisa  alloec    of 60 garoa of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rae  oa Vr thonand. avrage - Aonoal live hirtha per thouoac.d of              20 grom  of animal and poles protein, of shich 10 gron  Should be animal
nid-ysar population; ra-year arit    tic evSrages ending in 1960 and 1970,              protein; chaos Standards era lose  than those of 75 gnom  of total protais
and five-year eveagsenign 1975 for moat recent eSotimate,                              and 23 gras of animal protein as an -verge for the enrld, pespased by P._
Crude death rat   a   buad avrag       - Annual deetha per thousand of nid-ysar           in the Third World Pond Bunny.
population; ten-year arithrstlc enrag-encding in 1960 and 1970 and five-              Per centre cntain sanel frm    nia and pulse - Protein Supply of fond
year avar age ending in 1975 for moat rncent eatimata.                                  derive  from anImals and P.Se   in gr-n per day.
Inf:ant mortality rate f/thou)  A-.Anua deatha of infants onder one year of age        Death rats f/than) eages 1-4 - annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thued live hirtha.                                                                 years, to childrmn in thie age group; Suggested as an indicator of
Life S=n    ..ctaScat birth fyrg)- Average  -b-r of years of life ronining at             malnutrition.
birth; wsully five-year avrgsending in 1960, 1970 and 1971 far develop-
ingcotriea                                                                           Education
iroo  rerodctmn rte  Avrag  coberof ivedauhtes awomn wll  ear     Adjusted enrollmentrathio - arimar  School - Enrol1oset of all  ge ase Per-
in her eanal rprodct i" peiod if Sheeparianco        preaet age-specific               cantag  of pcit     Scoolage..  population; includes children, aged 6-il years
fertility ratee; usually firs-year average ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975               but adjuated for different lengthe of prinary education; for countries with
for developing cautries.                                                               univers al eduction, enol    -tmy nosed 10014 since am      pupils Sare below
Poonetim oeS,  ere(1)- toal  Copood annua   growth rares of nM-year             or show  the official school  gS..
pou atin for 1950-0  1960-0 end 1970-75.                                          Adluaid emro1o,st ratio - secondary School - Computd as abov; Secondary
populations    thrc    (1)l -rban - Computed lik. growth rate of total                     deducation requires at leaSt four years of approvd primary instrucciom;
population; different definitiom  of urban anus may affect comparability of             provide geneal1, vocational or teaher training beatrution     for pupils
data'r =gtcoustriea.                                                                     of 12 to 17 year  of age; crspondecc     cnrseas ar  generally encldad.
"rC meitimf  of total) -Rtio of urban to total population; different             Years of achoolioa strided (firet end second 1ev1l) - Total year    of
definitions of urban area may affec,t.coparability of data Somng coentriga.             Schoaling; at ascmdary level, voctiona    instruction may be partially or
Me s.tructure fPercent) - Childre  (0-14 years), woking-age (15-64 years),              Voctina e-ro11n       itf ..condaryl - Voactional inatitutiona include
adretired (65 years end owe) aa percotages of mid-year population .                   technical, industrial or ether progrem  which operate isdepemdscly or as
dAs dpcandea-n ratio - catio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to tho..               deparooso.te of seredary insatitutiona .
o.:f age15 throuh 64.                                                                  Adult literacy rate (%)t- literate adu1ta (able tc reed and nIce) as per-
ecnoic dnendemy ratio - gatio of population under 1) and 65 and over to                  erg    of total adult population aged 15 years ad over.
the labo  foc    caagroup of 15-64 years.
Pomly lamin  -  .ccPtor fc_alati-e thou) ;,-ICaltive comber of acceptors           1!us its
of birth-control devia under .uapi... of atonal fonily ploning progra                 Persona o  r non urban) - Avr-ge c-ombr of parsons par roo    In oncupied
ainc  inception.                                                                       cvetional d_clinga i       ra    re;delng          sid     o-omnn
F17ily planning -users f4 of married womn)    P-tPrentagee of married     n. of           Structures ad onoocpied parts.
chld-hearin  ag   (1-46 yers) who use birth-control devices ta all mar-iad           Occo. e dwe llings without nimad water ft) - Occu pied covcinldweltogS
wio  n  m  g  group.                                                            touba-n.rrl          ra   without iL-id. or outaide Piped water facilities
apecntage of all oncupied dwellings.
nuploynet                                                                               aceetc electricity ft of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Ecoomcal-ly active paersn, including armd                   leetriciry in living qarters aS percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces end umeployed bot eaclding houseives, studants, etc , definitions                rural areas.
In verioua c"utriosa ar  not comoparable.                                             BRal1 del;licae connected to e1-trritiy   Mt  - Computed So above for rural
Labor force in agicltre Cl) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forsatry,             dwelling  only.
booting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Snonolovd it of labor forte) - Unemployed are ususlly defined as pe.rson   who          Coneontio
Stc able ad willing to cake a Job, ont of a Job on a given day, remasined out         Radio receivers (oar thou peel - All typea ofreivs for radio broadcac
o.f. aJob, and aeS in  wrk fore S pecifisd minimu   period cot e...endini ont           to general public per thousand of population; secludes onliceeaedreivs
wek ba  o   hscomparable bacuse  countrisa due to different definitions          in countries end in years ehen registration, of radio sets we in affect;
of unemployedt and Source ofdata, e.g., *eplaytut office statitics, somple              data fon recen.t years may not be comparable since mast countries aboiished
survYs, *copulsory onemployn-t insurance,                                               licensing.
Peecenea cre fear thou eop) - Pa..eeager cars comprise macor car    sea ting
Incomedismtr~ibution - Percentage of privats intce, (both in ca.h and kind)              las  than sight Persona; -ecludes ebulances, hearses and military
rcie byrichest 5%, richeat 20%, pooreec 201, end poorest 401 of house-veils
holds.                                                                                Electricity (kwh/yr ear can) - Annual coneomption of Industrial, cnril
pulcand private electric ity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Biatribation of land -s.-rhip - Perc...t.g.. of land owed by wealthiest lOt               based on production data, withoutalo    nc  for losses is grids but allo--
and posret 10% of land ownrs.                                                           lug for imports snd soporta of a1sotricity
Neasrint (kg/yr oar tee) - Per ..pite annual coneuption in kilagras
Health and Mutrition                                                                      aetinated from d-netic production plus net imports of newprint.
Poeolation ear ehyaician - Population divided by c,obec of pracfticig
physiiasquolified from a medical School at univ-roity leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
TURKEY - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET -/
Actual            Est.          Projected            Growth Rates       Share of GDP
1970    1975     1976     1977    1978     1979    1980     70-77    77-80         1976
A.  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL Billion, 1976 Prices)
Gross Domestic Product                 423.5    607.7   659.0    688.0   700.6    723.7   763.9       7.2       3.6        100.0
Gain from Terms of Trade                -2.3     -0.4     0.0     -0.3    -0.8     -1.5    -2.3
Gross Domestic Income                  421.2    607.3   659.0    687.7   699.8    722.2    761.6      7.3       3,5
Exports (G + NFS)                       21.8     29.6    36.1     32.0    35.8     40.1    46.7       5.6      13.4          5.5
Imports (G + NFS)                       31.4     81.2    85.0     96.7    68.2     70.3    75.4      17.4      -8.6         12.9
Resource Balance                        -9.6    -51.6   -48.9    -64.7   -32.4    -30.2   -28.7                             17.4
Investment                              79.5    145.8   156.0    165.7   143.9    147.1   151.3      11.1      -3.1        23.7
Consumption                            353.6    513.5   552.0    586.9   589-1    606-8   641-3       7.5       3.0         83.8
Domestic Savings                        67.6     93.8   107.0    100.8   110-7    115-4   120-3       5.9       6-1         16.2
National Savings                        73.8    114.0   118.0    109.3   111.0    116-6   122-3       5.9       3.8         17.9
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                Share of GDP (Factor Cost) at 1976 Prices
Agriculture                             30.0     27.9    28.5     25.5     26.6    26.1    25.2       4.4       3.1
Industry                                26.9     27.7    27.1     27.9    27.0     27.5    28.0      10.7       3.7
other                                   43.1     44.4    44.4     46.6    46.4     46.4    46.8       9.0       3.7
C.  PRICES (1976 = 100)
Export Prices (in dollars)              44.1     92.5   100.0    107.4   113.3    119.0   124.3      13.6       5.0
Impor-t Prices (in dollars)             51.1     93.7   100.0    108.3   116.4    124.6   132.7      11.3       7.0
Terms of Trade                          86.3     98.7   100.0     99.1    97.3     95.5    93.7
GDP Deflator                            34.4     85.4   100.0    125.2   175.3    227.9   273.5      20.2      29.8
Av. Exchange Rate ($1.00=TL)            11.5     14.4    16.1     18.0
D.  PUBLIC FINANCE                               As percent of GDP
Central Gov't. Revenue                  19.9     20.5    21.4     22.4
Central Gov't. Expenditure              22.5     22.9    24.1     27.4
Public Sector Deficit 2/                n.a.      6.1     8.1      9.0
E. SELECTED INDICATORS     3/                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Est.
E,  SELECTED INDICATORS                            1970-77             F.  LABOR FORCE                            1970    1975     1977
ICOR                                              3.19                 Civilian Labor Force (millions)        13.8    15.6    16.4
Import Elasticity                                 2.41                 Unemployment and Under-
Average National Saving Rate                      0.18                   employment (% of CLF)                 11.9   13.0     13.3
Marginal National Saving Rate                     0.15                 Civilian Employment (millions)          13.1   14.3     14.9
Investment/GDP                                    0.22                   Of which (%)
Imports/GDP                                       0.11                      Agriculture                        67.1   60.8     57.7
Industry                          13.7    16.1    17.5
Other                             19.2    23.1    24.8
1/ Totals may not add up because of rounding errors.
2/ Borrowing requirement of central government, state economic enterprises, and other public authorities.
3/ 1978, 1979 and 1980 are regarded as unrepresentative tranAltional years.
EMENA CPIIA
October 12, 1978



TURKEY: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                   Page 4 of 4
(In Current 0S$ Millions)
Actual/                                Projected
1970       1975       1976        19-77      1978       1979      1980
A. S1JtIRY OF 1A1.ANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Exports of Goods and NFS                            760       2139       2742       2557        3000       3515      4250
2. Imports of Goods and NFS                         -1132       -5191      -5735      -6488      -4915       -5426     -6156
3. Resource Balance                                   -372      -3052      -2993      -3931      -1915       -1911     -1906
4. Net Factor Service Income                           193       1152        670        366         15          61       106
a. Interest (net)                                  -47        -124       -217       -500       -700        -950     -1100
b. Workers' Remittances                             273       1312        983        982         800       1100      1300
c. Profits                                          -33        -36        -96       -116        -85         -89       -94
5. Transfers (net)                                       8         20         22         -          -           -         -
6. Current Acount Ba:.ance                            -171      -1880      -2301      -3565      -1900       -1850     -1800
7. Foreign Private Capitall (net)                     175         256        162        168        155         300       400
8. Public M&LT (gross)                                 337        322        491        502        830        1230      1440
a. Project Credits                                  245        317        485        499        500         800      1100
b. Program Credits                                   92          5          6          3        330         430       340
9. Amortization on Public ILLT                        -lS9R-     -1    -     11-9      -214        -350       -590      -8BO
10. Public MALT (net)                                   140        205        372        288        480         640       560
11. Commercial Credits (net)                             18        829       1633       1429        965        1070      1170
a. Acceptance Credlits                               -          -          -         710        400         300       300
b. Convertible Lirs Accounts-'                       -         846        790        279         -           -         -
c. Dresdner Scheme                                              -          53         54        100         150       160
d. Euroloans                                         -          95        233         295/      35         70
e. Others          6                                 18       -112        5574       357         115       -0          -
12. Commercial Arrears-                                  -          -         234       1478         10       -260       -190
13. IMP (net)                                            48        243        148         _         220        100       -100
14. Changeal n.i.e.7/ 81                            -24        -70       -3_0       -358         70
14. Capital in R  r                                    -186        417       112         560         -                    -40
B. LOAN COMMITMEN'rs
Total Public M&LT                                   487        589       1206       1528
a. IBRD                                              40        158        237        144
b. Other Multilateral                               132          3         54         19
c. Governments                                      266        180        574        378
d. Suppliers and Finarcial Institutions              47        219        316        643
e. Others                                            -          29         26        544
C. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERN (MHLI) EXTERNAL DEBT 9'                                                                EXERIil DEBT
Eat              (Disbursed Only)
Outgtanding
1. Total Debt Outstanding                             1840       3282       4080       4670                                Des.31,1977
(and of the period, DnOD)                                                                                             AMoutt   Percent
2. Interest                                             42        104        123        223
3. Amortization                                        135        145        151        214    TOTAL MALT DEBT             4670    160.0
4. Total Debt Service ,BM6LT Debt                      177        249        274        437
5. Debt Service Ratio -                                                                          IBRD and IDA               706     15.1
a. Debt Service/Exports NFS                          23.2       11.6       10.0        17.0   ether Multilateral         568     12.3
b. Debt Service/Exports NFS and                                                               Governents                2433     52.2
Workers' Remittances                              17.1        7.2        7.4        12.3   Financial Institutions     449      9.6
Suppliers' Credits          273     5.6
6. Terms:                                                                                       Others                      241      5.2
Interest D00D/Total DOD                              2.3        3.2        3.0        4.8
Debt Service/Tltal D0D0                               9.J        7.6        6.7         9.4  SHORT-TERM DgBT             6539   100.0
7, IBRD 0D00/Total (M&LT) DOAD                           7.2       13.3       15.2       15.1   CIA's and Arrears          2267     34.7
IBRD Debt Service/Total D06D                                                                 Supplieral Credits         1508     23.1
Debt Service                                         3.2       12.4       14.8       11.7    Dresdner, BIS & TpAO       713     10.9
Acceptance Credits          710     10.9
D. SNORT-TERM EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                          Bankers' Credits           384      5.9
Outstandiog stock (end of period) Li                  n.a.    1144       2951        6539    Reimbursemetst Credits      204      3.1
Overdrafts                  240      3.7
E. DEBT SERVICE (as a ratio of Exports NFS                                                                                      40l9     6.2
and Workers' Remittances)                            17.6        7.0        9.0       20.2   Otber                       104      1.6
TOTAL DEBT                11209
1/ Totals may not add up because of rounding errors.                        a/  Gross of debt relief and refinancing; net amount as
7/  Includes imports with waivers.                                              ahown in Section C.
3/  Includes CLA deposits originally mada,valuation adjustment, and arrears.
4/ Includes overdrafts, bankers' credits, and others.
T, Includes oil import ftnancing of $350 million from Iraq.
N/ Net amount outstanding at the end of the period.
7/ Net residual finance and errors and cLissionsl item
o; Negative sign represents an inccease.
9/  For 1970-1976 based on Bank external debt estimates.   Includes public and publicly
guaranteed and private M&LT debt.
101  Represents debt service obligations only on M&LT DO&D, excluding debt service on short-term
obligations. See also line E.
11/ Based on Central Bank analysis of stock of short-term liabilities.
EMNA CPIIA
October 12, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1978)
Loan and
Credit                                                      (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number                                                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and nine credits fully disbursed               255.1    96.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey     Education              13.5             .4.1
762-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey     Fruit and Vegetable    10.0              2.2
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey     Fruit and Vegetable            15.0      0.1
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey     Irrigation Rehab.              18.0      1.6
817-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey     Steel Mill Expansion   76.0              3.7
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Water Supply  37.0            10.0
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Urban Dev.             2.3      0.7
845-TUa/ 1972   IGSAS                  Fertilizer Industry    42.0              0.1
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Livestock II                    16.0     4.4
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey     Ceyhan Aslantas        44.0             35.3
360-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey     Ceyhan Aslantas                30.0     0.2
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Power Dist.   14.0              3.3
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway Railway Project         46.7            11.7
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey     Antalya Forestry       40.0              6.4
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                Elbistan Power        148.0             84.9
1024-TU   1974   DYB                    Industry               40.0              6.7
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                   Industry               65.0             7.2
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey     Rural Development      75.0            60.0
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)        Agriculture Credit      54.3            43.6
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)      Newsprint               70.0            31.5
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey     Livestock III          21.5            21.0
1194-TU   1976   TEK                    Power Transmission II  56.0            49.2
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey     Tourism                26.0             25.1
1379-TU   1977   DYB                    Industry               70.0             69.7
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                   Industry               74.0             61.0
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey    Northern Forestry       86.0             86.0
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey    Livestock IV            24.0            24.0
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey     Erdemir Steel Stage II 95.0            95.0
Total                                       l483.lc/ 178.1   748.7
of which has been repaid                   135.0     4.2
Total now outstanding                       1348.1   173.9
Amount sold                  3.6
of which has been repaid   3.6             -0-      -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDA_             1348.1   173.9
Total undisbursed                                      7.0   748.7
a/ Includes $18.0 million approved on April15, 1976
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments
c/ In addition, a program loan of $150 Million was approved on November 7, 1978.



AN'NEX II
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BVNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TMTKEY
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                          Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor       Type of Business       Loan     Equity    Total
1964      TSKB          DFC                      -       0.92     0.92
1966      SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn             0.90      0.47     1.37
1967      TSKB II       DFC                      -       0.34     0.34
1969      TSKB III      DFC                      -       0.41     0.41
1969      SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn             1.50      0.43     1.93
1970      Viking I      Pulp and Paper         2.50      0.62     3.12
1970      ACS           Glass                 10.00      1.58    11.58
1971      NASAS         Aluminum               7.00      1.37     8.37
1971      SIFAS III     Nylon Yarn             0.75        -      0.75
1971      Viking II     Pulp and Paper           -       0.05     0.05
1972      SIFAS IV      Nvlon Yarn               -       0.52     0.52
1972      TSKB IV       DFC                      -       0.43     0.43
1973      TSKB V        DFC                   10.00        -     10.00
1973      Akdeniz       Tourisn                0.33      0.27     0.60
1974      Borusan       Steel Pipes            3.60      0.44     4.04
1974      AKSA          Textiles              10.00        -     10.00
1975      Kartaltepe    Textiles               1.30        -      1.30
1975      Sasa          Nylon Yarn            15.00        -     15.00
1975      Aslan         Cenment               10.60        -     10.60
1975      DOKTAS        Steel                  7.50      1.37     8.87
1975      TSKB          DFC                   25.00      1.22    26.22
1976      NASAS         Aluminum               1.58        -      1.58
1976      TSKB          DFC                   25.00        -     25.00
1976      Asil Celik    Steel                 12.00      2.18    14.18
1977      BORUSAN       Steel Pipes              -       0.16     0.16
1978      DOKTAS        Steel                   -        0.27     0.27
Total Gross Commitments            144.56      13.05  157.61
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
exchand e adjustments, repayments  81.36     2.99    84.35
and saIes-
Total Commitments now held by IFC 63.20       10.06    73.26
Total Undisbursed                   1.59       2.61     4.20



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project:   US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.    Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.   Closing Date:   March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation is
now proceeding well, with equipment procurement progressing satisfactorily.
Training of teachers for technician schools, adult training centers and
practical trade schools has made considerable progress. The Management
Training Institute has been established on an interim basis pending passage
of legislation formally establishing it, and its instructors are undergoing
training. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical
education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is nearing completion, with three of its four com-
ponents, including refrigerated trailer and towing units, marketing facili-
ties and a roll-on roll-off ferryship, fully implemented. A fourth component,
comprising credit and technical assistance for citrus development, underwent
initial start-up delays, but is now well established and being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: April 30,
1979.
Construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
at Silifke and Tokat is nearly complete, but on-farm works are still behind
schedule at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season.
Arrangements to ensure use of remaining loan funds before the revised closing
date have been finalized by the implementing agencies, and project works not
completed by the closing date would be carried out using Government funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is undergoing test trial runs and is expected to start
commercial production at the end of the year, three years behind the original
schedule, due to delays in beginning procurement stemming largely from ineffi-
cient management. An additional $2.0 million in foreign exchange is required
for completion of testing, and the Government is arranging this.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs are expected to be completed by end-1978. Substantial
improvements to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full
utilization to be made of the new water sources. Although a tariff increase
was implemented in March 1978, this was insufficient to enable ISI to generate
sufficient funds for future ongoing investment in the distribution system, and
the Government has been requested to explore ways to resolve the lack of ade-
quate local and foreign currency.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Terms of reference for Phase II
studies have been agreed and consultants' proposals sought.
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The project has been physically completed at a cost of $146 million,
some $16 million above the original estimate, with the overrun being met by
the Government, the State Investment Bank, and shareholders. Production com-
menced in April 1977, but soon thereafter severe technical problems resulted
in lengthy shutdowns which have prevented steady commercial operation at
satisfactory levels. These problems have now been largely overcome, and final
performance testing of the plant is scheduled for late October 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but diversion is now expected to be completed with
revised tunnelling methods before the 1978-79 flood season, about two years
behind the appraisal estimate. After some initial delays, progress in con-
struction of the irrigation works has been satisfactory, and by the end of
1977 - the last work season for which detailed information is available - the
system was ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha. On-farm works were
significantly behind schedule. However, construction of feeder roads has
progressed faster than initially estimated. Although a permanent director
has been appointed, the extension consultant has resigned and is now being
replaced. Full-time subject matter specialists have been hired and recruit-
ment of field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased by nearly 300 percent over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs
by 26 percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the
proposed reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services
have been completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's
tariffs were raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in
September 1977; additional steps are planned by the Government to help cover
the increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 75 percent of the loan has been



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite two tariff increases since the loan was
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging
70 to 80 percent, which became effective earlier this year, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the site of the pulp and paper
mill, the loan was declared effective. Construction at the new site is under-
way, and the project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind
the revised schedule. The cost overruns are being met by the Government and
the State Investment Bank. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construc-
tion have occurred, but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by
SEKA have produced some improvement. The Government has recently been unable
to authorize the foreign exchange transfers needed to permit continued pro-
curement for the industrial part of the project, but hopes to make certain
critically needed transfers shortly. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz
establishment are also behind schedule, resulting in a high debt-equity ratio.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Engineering and contracting are proceeding, but project implementa-
tion has been delayed by critical problems, including insufficient staff,
inefficient management, inadequate coordination among various agencies and
unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. Following Bank and co-lender
reviews of the situation with the Turkish authorities in early 1977, the reme-
dial measures initiated by Turkey have resulted in some improvement of project
coordination and physical aspects of project implementation. Financing, both
domestic and foreign, remains a serious problem. The Government is reviewing
possible actions to overcome these and other remaining implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The project extension
service and credit components are operating successfully and constLtants are
being engaged. Corum dam is nearing completion. Kumbaba pumping station and
the associated irrigation networks are nearly completed. Construction of the
remaining village centers will be delayed until 1979 while a plan for the use
and maintenance of the centers already built is being drawn up. Other civil
works are well underway.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is somewhat behind schedule, but nearly three-
fourths of the loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed
because of foreign exchange shortages, but this situation is expected to
improve, and overall project implementation and the rate of disbursement
should also improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. The project marketing and processing
facilities have been selected, and preparation of their feasibility studies
is expected to begin shortly. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has, after some
delays, recently introduced acceptable new lending conditions and procedures
for its ongoing supervised credit program, and disbursements for this com-
ponent are expected to begin shortly. TCZB has proposed to carry out itself a
study of its structure and procedures, originally envisaged for consultants,
and submitted details for review. It has also requested an 18-month extension
in initiating a program of improving its operations, financial planning and
resources. At the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the
Project, and US$7.7 million of the original Loan amount of $63 million, allo-
cated for this purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for
in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22,
1977, following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily, but due to past delays
in civil works and procurement is expected to start production in January 1980,
one year behind appraisal schedule. Erection of machinery and equipment is
expected to begin in fall 1978 and trial runs about one year later.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work.
The Project Unit has now been established in the Project Area and appointment
of key staff is being accelerated.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
Loan commitments have now started but not yet disbursements, mainly
due to changes in Government which led to delays in formulating the 1978
Annual Program. However, DYB has discussed with the Bank a pipeline suffi-
cient to fully commit the loan by mid-1979. DYB has been experiencing severe
staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional
junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more
senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and half of the loan has been committed.
In 1977, TSKB essentially reached an agreed target by allocating 38 percent of
its resources to projects in less developed regions, and exceeded another in
its assistance to small and medium-scale labor-intensive enterprises. TSKB
has so far been unable to raise resources in international capital markets as
expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the interest of
several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit renewed
efforts.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
This loan has just become effective.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV:    US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.    Effective
Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan has just become effective.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II St?el; US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date:   (original) Octobt!r 30, 1978.   (Current) February 28, 1979.
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Loan request made to the Bank:            April 1978
(b)  Appraisal mission:                         July 1978
(c)  Completion of negotiations:               October 20, 1978
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             February 28, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Nil.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Employment of experts and other technical specialists whose qualifica-
tions and experience and terms of employment are acceptable to the
Bank for carrying out comparative evaluation study and design engineer-
ing of pilot project (para 74).
(b) Undertaking additional core samples of the Bati Raman reservoir, with
such specialist assistance as may be necessary (paras 71 and 76).
(c) Devise an appropriate program of training by September 30, 1979 and
to arrange training after Bank approval of the training program
(para 76).



ANNEX IV
ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY (EOR) TECHNIQUES
Of the thermal methods, those principally used are steam injection
and underground combustion (also called in situ combustion or "fire-flood")
and they are generally used for heavy oils like that at Bati Raman, in fields
where the reservoirs occur at fairly shallow depths. The depth of the reservoir
at Bati Raman is near the present-day limit for steam injection techniques
because of the effect of heat losses through the walls of the injection well.
Underground combustion methods are difficult to control in the reservoir and
are generally applicable only in fairly homogeneous reservoirs at shallow
depths where the cost of drilling new air injection and production wells is
not excessive.
Flooding techniques are also divided into two principal categories,
miscible and non-miscible (that is, miscible with the oil in the reservoir).
Miscible floods may utilize gases such as methane (natural gas) or carbon
dioxide which dissolve in the oil, propane (LPG) where this is cheaply avail-
able, or an aqueous solution of certain chemicals which will mix with the oil.
Non-miscible floods are generally fresh or salt water. The division between
the two methods is blurred by the fact that the rate and manner of application
of the same injected fluids can often cause them to behave as either miscible
or non-miscible.
All the various methods of EOR have both advantages and disadvantages,
and the choice of any method, or combination of methods is based on a detailed
study of the characteristics of both the oil and the reservoir rock, and of
the relative capital and operating costs of the installation compared with the
amount of additional oil which it is believed may be recovered from the
reservoir.






BULGARIA  r     \58 L A C K                                 SEA E A
U. S.S. R.
;G R E E C EJ\                                                                                                USSR
C ) <<C> *4ainoto Sea,_3J;> IZMITp  %                                     S           >9~~~~~O ~saltsn RO.) 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*t*h /N BAThkE -                                                --
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ -t                                - -O DOYBBXI                     K -mH.X9
KIRIKKALE ~ ~ ~    ~     ~                   \RA
g              jag/       tSKEND(Ui 9 >                  .       so ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.E. TURKEY OiL FIELDS
TU KS H' PT UROLEU   SECTOR            R  AN  AN  A                   S Y R I A         Csqn  ,koos BkNn Toaigoo  t
at/ ~ ~~~~I IELDS          TPA0OILILS     -              ~              ~              5         V~(   orx)  *   p 
TPAO PIPELINE  *    SHRELL N    C  Y P R U  S  I                    1300 ,,D3nhas bee  , elo.er d by to. ^&b
~ IRAD.TUJRKEY CRUDE OIL PIPELINE  * MOBIL                             Ba %thcnws stffcfus.efy d tvo,  zmn4f   n   frIn
-  -  -  OTHER PIPE LI NE                                              R Te dr.mpalons cc wc It,  trchod C ZN)I
o -       -  INTE RNAT IO NA Laou NDAR IE S         -                          osud.ues Sb,,., son th. s m p rJ
iOtIbittOII PLANNED CRUDE OIL PIPELINE           I O   O               do0 45  n,ply.n on Rhep10 1,,v of to.  IAIM  RAOA
=/          PLANNED REFINERIES           KjOETH           ,                     t n  ttT to/y or any .ndo,som.o nt-oky7 _toc oLFEDgBg   w
AL   KAS                               r a pn  ss  d     H       CT 0,LF5Lh O
OAIYO. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 dn,  50*



