Docamm of
The World Bank
FOI OMCIAL USE ONLY
Ret  Nz P-3868-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 24.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
August 6, 1984
I TMS dsmwt   a a re t_duW dIbhudm _ my be =W by    X my Em the PInince d o
dWk seda dohe. I  c      my meW .hd wrue be dhdmd w1Eh.w Wed Bmk   d I -



CrREC EQUIVAETS
Currency unit - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1983        June 1984
US$1.00      -      Y_ 1.98              Y 2.07
Y 1.00       _      US$0.51              US$0.48
The staff appraisal report is based on the exchange rate of
US$1.00 = Y 1.97 prevailing at appraisal.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter Cm)                        3.28 feet
L kilemeter (km)   =               0.62 miles
L hectare (ha)     =               2.47 acres
15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)    =               2.2 pouads
ton                                1000 kg
2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
CAB    -   Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAAS   _   Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CAST   -   Chinese Association of Science and Technology
CXB    -   Central Meteorological Bureau
CNTIC  -   China National Technical Import Corporation
CVAO   -   Cross value of agricultural output
MAAF   -   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
MF     -   Ministry of Forestry
NWREP  -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PC     -   Project Commission
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
PO     -   Project Office
SSTC   -   State Science and TechnoLogy Commission



- i -                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Su -ary
Borrower:       People's Republic of China
Amount:         SDR Z4.3 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description: The project would upgrade and strengthen 15 selected crop-
specific and regional research centers and ten agrotechnical
extension stations. It is aimed at improving production
technologies for foodcrops, cash crops, livestock and
fisheries; strengthening resource management capabilities in
agriculture and related fields; and developing a model county
extension station to be replicated nationwide. Principal
features of the project would be construction and renovation
of laboratories, offices, farm buildings and staff housing;
scientific and farm equipment needed for research and experi-
mentation; library equipment, books and materials; local and
overseas training in the agricultural sciences and library
science; and technical assistance (about 96 man months)
applied to review of center research programs, program
formulation for extension stations, and future project
preparation. Principal benefits from project assistance would
be increased quality and volume of agricultural research,
improved resource planning and management, and lessons in
extension planning. These results over the long term would be
expected to contribute to achievement of agricultural growtb
targets, thereby helping to raise incomes, nutritional levels
and overall living standards. Project uncertainties regarding
possible duplication of research activities and the
applicability of research to farmers' needs would be reduced
by project-financed program reviews and measures to strengthen
linkages with extension units and agricultural colleges.
Th document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offca duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign   Total /a
-   S million
Civil works                                         19.9        3.5      23.4
Laboratory, office and farm equipment
and supplies                                       2.4       15.2      17.5
Library development                                  0.3        i.2       1.5
Overseas and local training                          0.9        1.9       2.8
Technical assistance and preparation of
furture projects                                    -         1.4       1.4
Base Cost                                         23.5       23.2      46.6
Physical Contingencies                               2.2        1.9       4.1
Expected price increase                              3.7        4.5       8.3
Total Project Costs                               29.4       29.6      59.0
Charge on Use of Foreign Capital                    10.0         -       10.0
Total Financing Required                          39.4       29.6      69.0
Financing Plan:
Total
IDA                                    25.0
Government                             44.0
Total                               69.0
Estimated             IDA FY                1985    1986    1987    1988   1989
Disbursements:                                        $ million
Annual                                  1.3     7.5     8.7      5.0     2.5
Cumulative                              1.3     8.8    17.5    22.5    25.0
Rate of Return:  N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5039-CRA, dated July 23, 1984.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a second agricultural
research project. The credit, for SDR 24.3 million (C25 million equivalent),
would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China: Socialist Economic
Development" (No. 3391-CMA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China: Recent
Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983.  Another economic mission that
visited China early this year is currently preparing a report on long-term
development issues and options, which is expected to be submitted to the
Executive Directors by the end of 1984. Basic data on the economy are given
in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of comutnes in rural
areas and the extension of pubLic ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Decpite sharp
oscillations in policy and political upheavaLs like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12Z p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-S1, significantly above the average for other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health, the Chinese
population is better off than its counterparts in other low-income developing
countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20Z of the population with
unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient, past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource conszraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.



- 2 -
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment in 1979. Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) improving the quality of central planning and
pclicy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority to lower
level units; (c) establishing more direct links between incomes and the
performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on market
mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative directives to
influence economic activity. Structural adjustment, aimed at speeding
improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the relative shares
of consumpcion and investment in national income, some major sectoral and
subsectoral -eadjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade. In 1981,
problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account deficits
resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the highest
priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly with
adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households. A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and manAgement agencies
Cespecially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization within ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way.  Economic
mnagement has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92Z of
production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had implemented a
household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of farm land and
major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted out to
individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond their
obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about one
third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but signifi-ant systemic changes have occurred. Refor- in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enLarged.



- 3 -
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have already
had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to have a
significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic reform
that the Government will need to address. In rural areas, there is a poten-
tial conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distrioution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still !.clined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and controL over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growath. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3Z per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2Z (heavy industry by 3.4Z and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagaated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9Z p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by Less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between L978 and 1982; in ruraL areas the reaL
increase in per capita incomes was about 12Z p.a. Wnile more prosperous areas
and households may have benefitted the most and income differentials at a
local level may have increased, many poor areas and househoLds have also
enjoyed substantial income improvements.
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program.  But achieving such a cutback has proved difficul'.
Decentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth in
investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a result,
most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centraLly financed



- 6 -
projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and transportation were
affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.42 in 1981
and 2X in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NNP in 1979 and 5Z in 1980 to Less than 22 in 1981
and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by sharp
cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978 to
26% in 1982, when they were 9Z of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent years;
the current account deficit of $3.4 billion in 1980 was converted into a $5.6
billion surplus in 1982 and an estimated $4.6 billion surplus in 1983, an
improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of merchandise
exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of rapid growth in manufactured exports. The growth rate has
been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of imports declined in
both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancellations
and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment deliveries and to problems in
obtaining high technology goods. The decline was reversed in 1983 and a
substantial increase in imports is expected in 1984 and 1985 as China expands
its investment program and imports more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1982 took advantage
of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay commercial bank
and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, and in 1982
10.0Z, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had
increased to over $li billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports), and by the end of 1983 they were nearly $15 billion. The rese-ve
surplus will be significantly reduced as China accelerated its development in
1984 and might record a slight deficit for this year.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the potential for
improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable economic
development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are serious
shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities and tech-
nical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for other
developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the
cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high,
the growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a.
during the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial
growth, and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial
sectors. Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time
when competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,



- 5 -
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981
through December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment,
reform, con:.iLidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan
period is essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation
will be laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent pLans.
Modest targets are set for production and income growth (4Z p.a. for gross
agricultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to
grow faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will continue during the next few years.
Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of
organization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units)
encouraged, and the administrative functions of commines separated from their
economic functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will fully replace
profit remittance as the primary means of raising government revenue, indus-
trial administration will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises
will be closed down. The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative
and individual commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In
investment planning, the Government is striving for more effective imple-
mentation of existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure
and efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent
very much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce
formal economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment
decisions and to make producing units more economically and financially
responsible for their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive
schemes are especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being
crucial, but in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes
required, the Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive
price reform until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward
adjustments in some of the most distorted prices are being made, and the
prices of many minor commodities are being allowed to fluctuate according to
market conA4tions.
20.        uring the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation prc.,ams are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. Foreign capital requirements for energy development
will be particularly heavy. By the late 1980s, some imports of oil are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses thus are expected to
change to moderate deficits over the next several years. But the overall rate
of import expansion, the size of the current account deficit, and the
magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions
about economic trends and the effectiveness of government programs. For
example, an acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements



- 6 -
in efficiency, especially energy efficiency, could result in large current
account deficits by the end of the 1980s. In fact, a relatively high rate of
economic growth of 6-7X p.a. during the rest of the 1980s (which is the growth
rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will probably be feasible only if
major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
21.       China has a strong claim to concessionary lending because it is
still one of the poorer countries in the world. However, access to concess-
ionary capital to finance its development and modernization program is
limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is Likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probabLy average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s.
22.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will be
a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less
concerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the
efficiency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing
subtantial increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this
potential can be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of
the Government's program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now under way, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its
considerable development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover,
working with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its
position in the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the
Bank should assist China in removing the major constraints on development:
shortages of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern
technology. Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use
these and other inputs more efficientLy, by improving project analysis and
investment control, as well as overall economic management and planning.
Finally, the Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's
remaining poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the
basic needs of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on the
poorest rural areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 18 projects involving lending of about $1,913 million have been
approved. Four have been in education (University Development, Agricultural
Education and Research, Polytechnic/TV University, and Agricultural Education
II), four in energy (Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development,
Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum, Karamay Petroleum, and Lubuge Hydroelectric), four
in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land Reclamation, Rubber



- 7 -
Development and Rural Credit), two in transport (Three Ports and Railway), two
in industry (Industrial Credit I and II), one in health (Rural Health and
Medical Education), and one in technical cooperation (Technical Cooperation
Credit). Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of March 31, 1984.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
analyzing developments over the subsequent two years, was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1983. Ir addition, the Bank has undertaken
studies in several areas important for our understanding of the Chinese
system, including rural finance and urban planning and management in
Shanghai. The economic mission which visited China in February and April 1984
will prepare a report on long-term development issues and options.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning. In the context of
the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual was developed with Bank
assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment Bank. The
Bank is also helping the Agricultural Bank of China to develop a similar
manual in connection with the Rural Credit project. A program of economic
research on China's development problems, aimed at the appLication of advanced
analytical techniques, is under way in collaboration with Chinese economic
research institutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of
structural change.
27.       Sector studies will help, inter alia, to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agricuLtural
manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project.
A rural finance study provided the background for the Rural Credit Project. A
health sector review looked at rural health care delivery systems and health
manpower development and provided the background for the Rural Health and
Medical Education Project. The agricultural research study provided the
background for the proposed project.
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work is proceeding on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of power and fuel. Power
projects will place particular emphasis on technology transfer for system
design, investment planning and staff training, as well as increasing
generation and transmission capacities. Future petroleum projects will, like
the first three, emphasize the introduction of modern technology, staff
training and studies, particularly for enhanced oil recovery, upgraded
exploration, and gas development. Other operations are likely to involve



-8-
development and management of large undergrour.d coal mines in Shanxi
province. In transportation, work is proceeding on a second railway project
and a second ports project to provide additional capacity. Bank assistance is
also planned for a roads project.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education through another
university development project and a teacher education project. Support for
agriculture would continue through the proposed project to provide further
assistance in agricultural research, and through projects to assist the
Government in forestry and seeds. In industry, there will be projects for
technical renovation and modernization in industries such as fertilizer,
machine tools and cement as well as further lending to the China Investment
Bank. A rural water supply project is also proposed.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
30.       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people; is the source of
income for some 290 million farm families; and accounts for about 35Z of the
country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 mil-
lion ha are arable.  Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor
and chemical and organic fertilizers. Nearly half of the arable land is
irrigated and more than half of this area grows at least two crops per year.
Foodgrains occupy about 80Z of the cropland and account for 65Z of total agri-
cultural output. This intensive system of production allows China to meet the
basic food needs of its population (about 22% of the world's total) from less
than 8% of the world's arable land. Grain yields are about 50% greater than
those in other developing countries. Agricultural production is carried out
in communes, state farms and privately managed plots which account for about
87, 5, and 8%, respectively, of the country's arable land and 80, 4, and 16%
respectively, of the gross value of agricultural production.
31.       Agricultural development has been accorded high priority since the
founding of the People's Republic. With investment in agriculture averaging
about 10% of total national investment, the sector grew by about 3.2Z p.a.
from 1955 to 1978. Agricultural productivity per hectare of cultivated land
increased considerably. Grain yields nearly doubled between 1952 and 1978;
the most rapid increase occurred in the years 1965-78 when Government policy
put special emphasis on achieving self-sufficiency in grain production. These
gains, accomplished through combined application of abundant local labor and
current and capital inputs such as chemical fertilizers, pumpsets, and mechan-
ical threshers, allowed China to feed an additional 300 million people.
Remarkable as this achievement was, because of the arable land constraint,
total production in fact did little more than keep pace with population growth
during this period. Moreover, the Government's policy of promoting increased
local self-sufficiency in grains checked possible gains from crop specializa-
tion and exchange and, in some extreme cases, led to serious ecological
imbalances. By the late 1970's, official assessments began focusing attention
on the unsatisfactory state of people's incomes and living standards,
particularly in certain regions of the country.



- 9 -
32.       Beginning in 1979, the Government departed from previous policy by
setting targets for a relatively high growth path for personal incomes and
consumption while scaling down goals for growth in GNP and investment. How to
increase the production of food and other agricultural products needed to help
meet this commitment to improved nutritional and living standards for China's
Vast population is the challenge of the next two decades_ As an imnediate
measure, the Government shifted emphasis from grain self-sufficiency to crop
diversification based on comparative advantage at the local level so as to tap
potential gains from specialization and exchange. Already the effect has been
considerable: the total area sown to grain crops between 1979-82 declined by
6 million ha to the lowest level since 1952. At the same time, as a result of
increases in per ha yields, the total output of grains increased. For the
long term, the Government is in the process of refining subsector growth tar-
gets and activating the means to achieve them. Major targets for the year
2000 include:  (a) a 2% annual growth in grain production (rice, wheat, maize
and other coarse grains) from the average 1979-81 base with the area sown to
grain remaining substantially unchanged; (b) raising yields and production of
such important cash crops as cotton, fruits and vegetables, the demand for
which is expected to expand rapidly as incomes rise; (c) increasing forest
coverage from r-he present 13% of China's land area to about 20% to meet the
rising demand for forest products; (d) increasing the contribution of the
livestock sector to gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) from the current
figure of 15Z to 25Z with meat consumption more than doubling; and (e)
expanding aquatic products output from 5 million tons to 11 million tons by
supporting intensive fish cultivation, especially in freshwater ponds.
33.       Key elements of the Government's strategy to achieve these growth
targets are: (a) designation of certain areas as special production bases for
marketable crops; (b) creation of improved and well-integrated systems of pro-
duction, storage, transport, and marketing; (c) expansion of agricultural
research activities and increased use of modern inputs and technology;
(d) improvement of incentives to producers - e.g. encouraging household agri-
cultural activities and individual enterprises through increased use of the
production responsibility system, providing higher procurement prices than in
the past for farm produce, and expanding the flow of credit to rural areas;
(e) strengthening the agricultural extension system for rapid transfer of
relevant technology to farmers; and (f) continuation of past programs for
boosting agricultural output - e.g., construction of irrigation works,
combined use of chemical and organic fertilizers, production of certified
seeds, and development of pest management systems.
34.       Improved producer incentives, a renewed emphasis on specialization,
and introduction of new crop varieties are among the principal factors contri-
buting to the high growth performance of the agricultural sector since 1979.
GVAO has grown at an annual average rate exceeding 7Z, or more than twice the
rate achieved over the previous two decades. Demand for agricultural products
is expected to steadily increase over the next two decades in response to
increasing per capita income and moderate population growth. China's culti-
vated area will remain essentially unchanged over the period - land lost to
roads, urbanization, and industrial development will be approximately offset
by newly reclaimed land - so that meeting future agricultural growth require-
ments will depend critically on increases in cropping intensity and yields on
existing cultivated areas.



- 10 -
Organization of Research
35.       Following the decade-long disruntion caused by the Cultural
Revolution (1966-76), China has reintroduced long-term research planning, re-
established professional societies under the Chinese Association of Science
and Technology (CAST), and restored the system of professional rather than
political management of research organizations. The State Science and
Technology Commission (SSTC) is again at the forefront of planning and
coordinating China's scientific work with the help of its affiliates at the
provincial level. The Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), the nation's premier
research agency, supervises the work of over 100 research institutes
conducting primarily basic research. Ministry-supervised research is another
major part of the research structure. In agricultural research, the most
prominent of the ministerial agencies is the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
Sciences (CAAS) under the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries (MAAF). The CAAS is responsible for 31 research institutes, 3
research laboratories and a central library and information service. As of
June 1983, total CAAS staff numbered 8,897 with about 45% researchers, 10X
administrative staff, and 45% support staff. The HAAF also supports other
smaller research agencies - e.g., the China Aquatic Sciences Research
Institute (Aquatic Products Bureau) and the South China Tropical Crops
Research Institute (Bureau of State Farms). Similarly, other ministries
sponsor specialized research: The Ministry of Forestry (HF) is the parent
agency for the Academy of Forestry Sciences, the Central .Meteorological Bureau
(COB) is responsible for 6 affiliated research institutes, and the Ministry of
Water Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) oversees 33 affiliated research
organizations with a staff of about 5,000. At the provincial level, provin-
cial academies of agricultural science take the lead in conducting applied
research. These academies are supervised and funded by the provincial govern-
ments, but guidance in research pla3ning is provided by the CAAS or other
central ministry affiliates. Nationwide there are 393 agricul:ural research
institutes at the provincial Level and above (including the CAAS), with a
total staff of 59,822 of which 31.5Z are researchers, 10.5% administrators,
and 58Z support staff.
36.       During the Cultural Revolution many major research institutions were
closed and staff dispersed to the countryside. As a result of such disrup-
tion, most research institutions suffer from shortages of funds, poor research
facilities and equipment, and inadequately qualified staff. In some cases,
laboratories and office buildings originally belonging to a research institu-
tion but taken over by other government units had to be repossessed and
renovated. Experimental fields and greenhouses need to be established or
upgraded. In terms of equipment, many research laboratories operate with
obsolete or incomplete sets of even the most essential items such as weighing
scales, microscopes, pH meters, and ovens. Qualified staff, especially at the
middle -nd senior levels, are in short supply. A survey of the 15 research
centers included in the proposed project shows 40% with only the bachelor's
degree or less; only 13Z are at the Ph.D. or equivalent level.



- 11 -
Links Between Research and Extension
37.       In general, research is the major function of the national, provin-
cial and prefectural organizations while the counties, commnnes, and brigades
are primarily responsible for extension, demonstration and training. The MAAF
administers a vast extension network through its General ExteLsion Bureau in
Beijing responsible for supervising a hierarchy of agencies/units reaching
downward to the specialized household Level. Though China's past agricultural
successes must be attributed in large part to the effective working of this
system, the Government in 1979 began a major program to further upgrade exten-
sion services and personnel in order to expedite transfer of new technology to
farmers. Plans, now being implemented, call for replacing the county research
institute in each of China's 2,300 counties with a new agrotechnical extension
station which would combine under one administration previously independent
services - e.g. soil testing, seed production, plant protection. Under the
current production responsibility system which makes the individual household
a key unit in economic decision-making, this consolidation of services is
viewed as the most effective meAns of ensuring a two-way flow of information
between technical/research institutions and farmers. By 1983 over 300
stations had been established.
Research Priorities
38.       Despite all of its handicaps in terms of facilities, equipment, and
staff and its pr.longed isolation from the international research community,
China's agricultural research system has made a considerable contribution to
increased agricultural production. This is particularly striking in the case
of rice and wheat. China's development strategy for the next two decades,
however, places enormous new demands on the research system: First, current
growth targets emphasize production increases not only in grains, the area in
which past research achievements have been greatest, but also in other sub-
sectors - cash crops, livestock, aquatic products - which have not reaped the
same benefits from research. Second, in crop production, the major source of
production increases is assumed to be increased yields - rather than increased
acreage - which implies a major role for research in supplying new high-yield-
ing, disease- and pest-resistant plant varieties. Third, research is a
critical element in the Government's plans to exploit underutilized resources
to boost production of livestock, aquatic products and forestry products.
Major research priorities developed in response to the Government's current
growth strategy are: (a) in foodgrains, development of hybrids with shorter
maturation periods and improvement of seed quality and seed production
technology; (b) in cash crops, development of improved varieties and better
storage, processing, transport and marketing techniques; (c) in forestry, work
on forest soils, vegetative propagation of improved plant materials and
updating forest inventories; (d) for increased livestock production, work on
breed improvements, control of animal diseases, and development of high
quality protein feed; (e) in aquatic products, development of improved breeds
and better storage and processing techniques; (f) in water resource
development, increasing the efficiency of water usage and irrigation and
drainage system design; and (g) in meteorology, development of improved
weacher surveillance and prediction for major agricultural areas.



- 12 -
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
39.       The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector is to
support the Government's efforts to raise agricultural production through the
more efficient use of land and water resources and improvements in the support
services such as research and agricultural education. The first Bank Group
operation in the agricultural secror, the North China Plain Agriculture
Project (Credit 1261-CHA, approved on June 15, 1982 for $60 million), will
provide irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha covering parts of nine
countries in three provinces. Work on this project, the first large-scale
attack on soil salinity and waterlogging in China, is proceeding vell. A
second project, the Agricultural Education and Research Project (Credit
1297-CHA, approved on November 2, 1982 for $75.4 million) will support the
Government's program to strengthen higher education and research in the
agricultural sector by providing civil works, equipment and technical assist-
ance to selected agricultural colleges and research institutes. The project
is progressing on schedule. The Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project
(Loan/Credit 2261/1347-CHA, approved on April 18, 1983 for a total of $80.3
million) viiL develop 200,000 ha on state farms in Northeast China by
constructing surface drains and access roads and providing various
agricultural machinery and other support services to increase marketable
surpluses of wheat, maize and soybeans. Implementation is proceeding well.
The Rubber DeveLopment Project (Credit 1417-CHA and Special Fund Credit SF-5-
-CA, approved on November 29, 1983 for $100 million), will assist in new
planting and replanting of 40,000 ha of rubber in Guangdong Province. Bidding
activities are under way. The Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA, approved
on April 24, 1984 for $50 million) will provide funds through the Agricultural
Bank of China to subborrowers in Guangxi in southern China for the development
of orchards and other economic tree crops, agroprocessing, livestock, and
aquaculture. The first proposed subprojects are underway and are under
review. Future project possibilities include forestry, seeds developuent,
irrigation and drainage, aquaculture, rural credit, and integrated area
development in relatively poor regions.
Project Formulation and Rationale
40.       As part of its overall program to boost the level and efficiency of
agricultural production, the Government is placing high priority on strength-
ening the support services provided by the research, extension and education
systems. The Agricultural Education and Research Project now under way, is
supporting an initial phase of assistance for 11 agricultural colleges and 7
research institutes, all key institutions covering essential aspects of the
agricultural sciences, forestry, fisheries, meteorology and hydrology. A
project-financed Agricultural Research Study has confirmed that the main needs
of the system are to improve the physical facilities for research, to develop
the requisite high level manpower to increase research quality and volume, to
strengthen research planning, management and program formulation, and to
ensure effective communication of research results to farmers.  The major
rationale for Bank Group involvement in the proposed Second AgricuLtural
Research Project is to assist the Government in addressing these needs. In
particular, it would enable the MAAF and other agencies responsible for
project implementation to gain access to improved technology and technical



- 13 -
advice based on international experience_ Based on the Agricultural Research
Study and consultation with the Bank Group, the Government has selected for
assistance 15 research centers and ten agrotechnical extension stations.
These 15 centers, located in areas with wide differences in climate and physi-
cal conditions such as Inner Mongolia, Guangzhou, Xinjiang and the North China
Plain, would be supported under the project. The centers would focus on
research in such areas as food and cash crops, fisheries, livestock, forestry,
hydrology, and meteorology.
IV. THEE PROJECT
41.       The original project proposal, prepared by the MAAF, was reviewed by
an IDA mission in April 1983. During that and subsequent missions, discus-
sions involving the MAAF, IDA staff and consultants led to several changes in
the project's technical features. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 5039-CHA,
dated July 23, 1984, is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
July 9 to July 11, 1984 with a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Luo Qing of the
Ministry of Finance.
Project Scope and Design
42.       The overall objective of the project would be to support the
Government's plans to upgrade research facilities, to improve the quality and
supply of researchers and technicians; to strengthen research planning,
management and program formulation, and to strengthen agricultural exten-
sion. The project would expand and improve 15 research centers throughout
China responsible for priority research in food and cash crops, livestock,
aquatic products, forestry, hydrology and meteorology. The project would also
support a pilot program to strengthen the extension work of 10 county-level
agrotechnical extension stations.
Principal Project Features
(a) project works: construction or renovation of 112,OCO sq m of
laboratories, offices, farm facilities, and staff housing for the
research centers;
(b) scientific equipment, farm equipment and computers: scientific
equipment, both standard and specialized items, farm equipment and
computers for the research centers and audio-visual and analytical
equipment for the extension stations;
(c) library equipment, books and materials to upgrade research center
library facilities;
(d) local and overseas training for both center and station staff in the
agricultural and related sciences, management and library science;
and



- 14 -
(e) technical assistance: consultant services to assist in review of
center research programs, program formulation for the extension
stations and future project preparation.
Research Centers
43.       The 15 research centers selected for funding under the second
project are located in eight provinces and one municipality representing six
different agro-ecological zones. Research concerns reflect Government priori-
ties (paras. 38 and 40) of raising crop yields, developing underutilized
resources, and improving resource/information management. Centers were selec-
ted for inclusion in the project because of their potencial capability - based
on past research achievements, location, importance of research programs, and
relatively competent research staff - to respond rapidly to the needs for
increased agricultural productivity. Most centers are currently providing, or
will be expected to provide, technical and consultative services; several, in
addition, are offering postgraduate degree programs and short-term training
for local technicians. Assiscance provided under the project, therefore, is
expected not only to increase the research output of the centers, but to
enable them to function more effectively as regional/national resources and
training centers in major agricultural disciplines.
44.       Project Works. Civil works financed under the proposed project
would cover construction and renovation of research laboratories, offices,
farm experiment facilities and staff housing for 12 of the 15 proposed
research centers. Funds for farm improvement - land leveling and road, irri-
gation and drainage system upgrading - would be included for four of the
12 centers. By the end of the project, 61 new or renovated laboratories and
ancillary facilities would lay the foundation for planned increases in
research programs.
45.       Scientific Equipmenc, Farm Equipment and Computers.  The project
would finance laboratory equipment, materials and supplies, farm equipment,
and computers for the 15 proposed research centers. Laboratory items would
account for about 70Z of all equipment and would include balances, centri-
fuges, optical equipment, anaLytical equipment, cooling and heating equipment,
and glassware and chemicals. The project would provide 5 minicomputer systems
and 15 microcomputers to 9 of the 15 institutes. Computers would cover about
20Z of total equipment expenditures. The project would enable the centers to
improve the quality of ongoing research and to begin about 55 new research
projects.
46.       Library Equipment.  The project would help expand and upgrade
existing research center library facilities to enable the library to assume a
more pivotal role in center research activities. The project would finance
essential library equipment, furniture and books. By the end of the project,
center libraries would be expected to have acquired in total about 240,000 new
titles. About 11 man-years of overseas training and 22 man-years of local
training in library science would be used to upgrade library staff.
47.       Local and Overseas Training.  The project would provide a total of
119 overseas fellowships (totaling 98 man-years) and 293 in-country fellow-



- 15 -
ships (totaling 275 man-years) for training in basic and applied agricultural
sciences as well as library science. Twenty-five of the overseas and 53 of
the in-country fellowships would be for degree training; 94 and 240 respec-
tively would be for individual short-term training and group study visits. By
the end of the project, about 35Z of existing research staff would receive
some form of training, about 10% abroad. An assurance was obtained from the
Government that candidates chosen for overseas study would be selected in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association and that those chosen
would receive language training as needed at the language centers established
under Cr. 1297-CHA (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Technical Assistance.  The project would finance approximately
92 man-months of consultant services to assist the research centers on a
short-term basis in program development and review and to participate in con-
ducting workshops and seminars. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that by August 31 of each year, beginning 1985, research programs and
technical assistance plans for the following year would be prepared for IDA
review (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The project
would also provide funds for consultants to assist in preparing a third-phase
agricultural research project.
Agrotechnical Extension Stations
49.       In support of the Government's plan to improve extension services by
establishing consolidated, county-level agrotechnical extension stations
nationwide, the project would support a pilot program of assistance to ten
recently-formed stations in ten different provinces/municipalities. The sta-
tions are primarily responsible for conducting local field trials of research
center findings, providing training for 'key" farmers, and keeping the
research centers informed of any problems which may arise as new technology is
adopted. Stations were selected for inclusion in the proposed project on the
basis of: (a) geographic and agroclimatic distribution, (b) proximity to a
provincial/municipal research academy or college as a potential source of new
technology and expertise, (c) relative readiness in terms of buildings and
staff to begin operations, and (d) availability of counterpart funds for the
project from the county budget. Assistance provided under the project would
help develop a model which, if successful, might be extended to the 2,000
counties which have yet to set up consolidated extension services.
50.       Equipment.  The project would finance a standard package of equip-
ment for each agrotechnical extension station consisting of simple audio-
visual items such as 16 mm projectors and overhead projectors and basic
laboratory equipment including microscopes and soil testing instruments. The
project would also provide two field vehicles to each station.
51.       Local Training.  On the average, each station has 85 staff
members. Under the project, 750 persons or about 90Z of total staff would
receive month-long training courses at local colleges in such areas as exten-
sion methodology, audio-visual techniques, and use of laboratory testing
instruments.



- 16 -
52.       Technical Assistance and Extension Committees.  The project would
finance 4 man-months of consultant services to assist the 10 agrotechnical
extension stations in program formulation. Ongoing advisory assistance would
be provided locally by 10 Extension Committees to be established under the
project as policy, planning, and coordinating units within the provincial
bureaus' extension offices. The committees would be linked with the MAAF's
Leading Group on Extension, a recently-created central unit responsible for
coordinating the activities of the three major agricultural support services,
education, research and extension.
Implementation Schedule
53.       The project wouLd be implemented over a five-year period beginning
in 1985. Preparatory civil works are well under way. Working drawings and
contracting arrangements with local construction companies would be finalized
during 1984 so that construction might begin in January 1985. Bid documents
for about 60% of all equipment items have been prepared and reviewed by IDA;
the bid invitation for this first phase of equipment procurement would be
expected to be issued bv September 1984 and evaluation and award completed
early in 1985. An additional phase of equipment procurement would begin in
late 1985. Equipment deliveries would begin in mid-1985 and be completed by
the end of 1987. Training activities would be expected to start imediately
following consultant services by mid-1985.
Cost Estimates
54.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$59.0
million including contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at $29.6 million or 50Z of total project cost. Costs for buildings include a
small element of local taxes on materials, probably less than 10Z. Imported
equipment is exempt from taxes or duties. Cost estimates for civil works,
goods and services are based on mid-1984 prices projected to January 1985.
Civil works were estimated on the basis of preliminary designs using unit
prices based on similar type of work. Equipment costs were based on
suppliers' current price quotations applied to detailed equipment lists.
Costs for averseas training were estimated at $15,000 per man-year for degree
training and $1,000 per man-mnth for nondegree training. For in-country
training, costs were estimated at $250 per man-month for degree training and
$170 per man-month for nondegree training. The contingency allowance of
12.4 million includes: (a) physical contingencies ($4.1 million) estimated at
10% of base costs for civil works and 10% for equipment; and (b) expected
price increases ($8.3 million) which amount to 16% of the base cost plus
physical contingencies and are based on annual price escalation for goods and
services of domestic and foreign origin in US dollar equivalents of 3.5% in
1984, 8% in 1985, 9% annually from 1986-88, 7.5% in 1989, and 6Z annually from
1990-95.
Financing
55.       Total financing required, including the charge on the use of foreign
capital is $69.0 million equivalent. The proposed IDA credit would amount to
$25 million (42% of total project costs) and would be used primarily for



- 17 -
purchase of equipment, most of which would be imported, fellowships and
technical assistance. The remaining $44.0 million would be financed by the
Government.
Procurement
56.       Scientific equipment and computers with an estimated cost of about
$18.9 million would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Small items of equipment
costing not more than $50,000 each and $1.9 million in total would be procured
on the basis of three price quotations under procedures acceptable to IDA.
Books in foreign languages and teaching materials estimated at about $0.9
milLion would be purchased directly from publishers or distributors after
negotiating for the best discounts. For equipment procured through ICB, local
manufacturers would be extended a 15% preference margin or the prevailing
customs duties, whichever is lower. Prior IDA review of contract awards would
exclude small contracts ($200,000 or less) estimated to cover less than 15Z of
the value of all contracts. Goods with a value of $2.9 million, mainly small
equipment items, furniture and supplies, would be financed by the Government
and procured locally through local procedures. Civil works (US$29.1 million)
would be procured through established local procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank Group. Consultants would be employed under terms of reference agreed
with IDA and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for consultants.
Disbursements
57.       Disbursements for equipment, materials and vehicles would be made at
100% of the foreign cost for direct imports and 100% of the local ex-factory
cost for locally manufactured items. Disbursements for overseas training and
consultant services would be made at 100% of total expenditures. All with-
drawal applications would be fully documented except: (a) for expenditures
under equipment, materials and vehicles contracts whose value is less than
$50,000 equivalent; (b) for expenditures for overseas fellowships; and (c) for
expenditures under consultants' services contracts whose value is less than
$50,000 equivalent. Withdrawal applications for these expenditures would be
supported by a statement of expenditures certified by the Project Director.
Supporting documentation would be retained in the Project Office in Beijing
and be made available to IDA supervision missions.   In order to provide for
efficient disbursement of the credit proceeds, a special account would be
opened in U.S. dollars in the Bank of China with an initial deposit of U.S. $
equivalent of SDR 2,430,000 ($2,500,000) which represents the estimated
expenditures for the most active three-month period with a margin of 20%.
Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted
quarterly, or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50Z of its initial
deposit, whichever comes first. Supporting documentation would be retained in
the Project Office (PO) and be available for review by supervision missions.
Opening of the special account would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
58.       The completion date for the proposed project would be December 31,
1989 and the closing date, June 30, 1990. The disbursement schedule would be
expected to be faster than the IDA regional average because bid documents for



- 18 -
equipment are at an advanced stage of preparation thus making it possible to
procure most items in the first three years of the project.
Accounts and Audits
59.       Records of civil works expenditures would be maintained by the
People's Construction Bank of China which would be responsible for
disbursements to construction companies engaged under the project. These
records would be consolidated into a single account by the People's
Construction Bank in Beijing and forwarded annually to the Project Office
(PO). The PO wouLd keep records of equipment expenditures and would prepare
an annual account of equipment and civil works expenditures. An assurance was
obtained from the Government that the project accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
financial year (Section 4.01(c) of the draft DeveLopment Credit Agreement).
Project Management and Implementation
60.       At the ministry level, the MAAF wouLd have primary responsibility
for the proposed project. Interagency coordination where necessary would be
provided by a recently established Project Panel comprising senior officials
from the MAAF, MF, MWREP, and CMB. The Director of the MAAF's Education
Bureau would serve as Project Director with overall responsibility for project
execution. Day-to-day responsibility for project management would be the
responsibility of an existing Project Office (PO) which is staffed from the
Bureaus of Education and Science and Technology. This arrangement represents
a continuation of what has proved an effective implementation structure under
Cr. 1297-CHA. The PO is headed by a Project Coordinator who reports to the
Director of the Education Bureau in his capacity of Project Director. The
Project Coordinator is responsible for supervising the work of the PO's five
sections - Liaison and Coordination, Projects, Finance, Fellowships, Equipment
Procurement - which are staffed with technical experts and support personnel.
For purposes of implementing the proposed project, additional personnel
including a Deputy Project Coordinator have been seconded to the PO from the
Science and Technology Bureau. Overall, the PO would continue the responsi-
bilities assigned to it under Cr. 1297-CHA: coordinating project work with
all central agencies involved; acting as chief liaison with IDA; maintaining
project accounts and submitting disbursement applications to IDA; monitoring
civil works design and construction; administering Local and overseas training
programs; and supervising all aspects of the equipment procurement process.
The PO would also be responsible for preparing a project completion report for
IDA review. In equipment procurement, the PO itself would be responsible for
reviewing equipment lists and preparing technical specifications. The China
National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) would be primarily responsible
for bid invitation, evaluation, and award of contracts in consultation with
the PO.
61.       The Project Commission (PC) established under Cr. 1297-cHA would
provide technical expertise and advice to the PO, review research center staff
development plans, and determine requirements for consultant services. At the
institution level, the PO and the PC would be assisted by Project Implemen-



- 19 -
tation Units (PIUs) which have been established by each research center and
agrotechnical extension station to carry out local planning, budgeting and
monitoring functions. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the
Covernment that the P0, PC and PIUs would be established and/or maintained,
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA, and adequately staffed
with qualified personnel during the life of the project (Section 3.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Fellowship nominations made by project
institutions wouLd be submitted to the PO for approval in accordance with
selection criteria satisfactory to IDA.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
62.       The project would provide training for about a third of the research
staff of 15 research centers, establish or renovate and newly equip about 60
research laboratories, and help develop model agrotechnical extension
stations. Principal benefits from this assistance would be increased quaLity
and volume of agricultural research, improved resource planning and manage-
ment, and lessons in extension planning that might be applied to other exten-
sion stations currently being established. Over the long term, these results
could be expected to help China reach its agricultural growth targets and
thereby raise incomes, nutritional levels and overall living standards.
Research would also contribute to improved environmental protection and
control by developing new technology for land use and soil and water conserva-
tion and rehabilitating arid lands and forest reserves.
63.       Achievement of anticipated benefits from the proposed project
depends largely on the existence of effective mechanisms to identify research
priorities appropriate to farmers' needs, to assign research projects making
best use of resources, and to promote farmers' acceptance of new technolo-
gies. In many developing countries, the inadequacy of these mechanisms has
hindered the success of major research projects. In China, research and
extension services have worked with notable effectiveness in the past to
facilitate a two-way flow of information between research institutions and
farmers. The project would support further strengthening of these linkages by
helping to develop a model agrotechnical extension station designed to consol-
idate previously separate extension units and to interact closely, assisted by
a new project-sponsored Extension Committee, with local research and education
services. Through the annual review of research programs supported under the
project, project research centers would also be encouraged to sharpen their
focus on practical problems, responsive to farmers' needs. While existing and
planned research/extension linkages in China represent an aid rather than an
impediment to project success, there is some risk that, given the complexity
of China's research system, the demand for research in certain areas may be
overstated leading to some unnecessary duplication of efforts. This risk of
overlapping efforts would be reduced somewhat as a result of the completed
Agricultural Research Study which seeks to clarify research priorities and the
capabilities of the various institutes which make up the research system. The
annual reviews of project centers would also help avoid duplication in their
fields.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would
be the following:
(a) The Borrower's State Council shall have approved the Development
Credit Agreement; (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); and
(b) The Special Account shall have been opened (Section 5.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
66.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
August 6, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-  21  -                                                 Page  1 of  6
OltAA. 7wC S St. Or - SOCIA. 7ICAwWS sATA SlEET
CR136. 7CrS air,. or                Ionic  OF S (EIGUT  AVrRACES) 1
Walr                    C605T NEce" ESTUSATE) lb
mo-   1970&  ESTD,aTUL           LOW INCOM             NICOLE rumc.
IB5          ASDA A?   CSAA2F 1,
1   sri0 p &D^Tlid  Asa  PACIFIC       ASIA   PActric
mu "ItIA  se. nlo
TOTAL                            9561.0      951.0       956.0                 .
CINICOLUWL                       3176.3      3212.0      3162.9
O   u CA        MIU SS)               C0-0le      90.0       300.0             276.7                   1028.6
mm" terrin mm CnSZ
(EILOGMS OF COAL SJXVALEEY)       340.0       627.0       611.0             390.6                    792.0
WAUS  -  MA mST Er
PFOPLATION.1-FEAR (frMtSMD) 1o3300.0 x31o.0   99 30.0
17UI rOSATIOJ K CZ OF TOTA)        l1.4/d        .        20.6               21.5                     32.9
POPI2aT201 nPROEfnS
PftLATION IN TEAM 2000 (WILL)                          1197.7
STATIONAR  POPULATION (1NLL)                           1136.6
TEAR STATIONARY POP. REA1D1                            2060
POPCLATION DENSITT
Pr 90. O   .                     7I.s        67.7       102.5             161.7                    260e7
PS SO. 5r. aCt!. LAM            215.2       2U1.1      307.6              363.1                   1696.5
POPULATo0N ACE STUICToRE aZ)
0-1- 'MS                        3e.9        17.7        32-2             136.6                     39.
15-6 IRS                        56.3        57.2       62.6               59.2                     57.2
65 aND aMovz                      6.6         s.1        5.6                6.2                      3.3
POPLATION OWN RATE (%)
TarAt                             1.7         2.1        1.5                1.9                      2.3
URAl                               ..          ..         ..                6.0                      3.9
CEDC  3IRTH RATE I;i TWCS)         38.9f.      34.1       20.9               29.3                     31.3
CRUDE DEArl RATE iPE  TWROS)       23.77f      9q.         7.8               10.9                      9.6
C0055 RZaRWTION RATE                Z.87        2.4        1.6                2.0                      2.0
7ADMDT P.AINC
ACCEPTORS. ASRt (THOIS)            ..
LSE  (1 Of HARRID UWOW)             .          ..       76.01f            68.1 I6.6
wOO a  e DmIn
lItEri OF FOOD PR. PEP CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        ..       100.0      17.0               111.                     125.2
PE CAPITA s2Y-L OF
CAlIES (I OF mfQTREMCENTS)       78.31.      887       107.0               98.1                    11362
PROTEINS (CRtS PDA) m                        53.0       65.0              56.7                      57.9
Of WICK ATIAL ANW PCLSE           ..        12.7        25.0              13.9                     16.1
CfLD (ACES 1-4) DEATS tATE*        26.1/.      10.7        7.2               12.2                      7.6
NmaS
LIFE ECECT. A- BITH (TEARS)-         .         57.9       67.2               59.6                     60.2
INFANT HOOT. RATE (PER  h7US)-    165.0       90.O        71.0              96.6                     60.1
ACCESS TO Sa?r WATER (amP )
TOrAL                              ..          ..         ..               32.9                     37.1
URBAN                              .. *-       *-                         70.8                      54.8
L.                                            ..         ..              22.2                      21.4
AC5S TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(S or rDPOATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         ..               18.1                     61.
cu                                 ..          ..         ..               72.7                      7.5
At                                 ..          ..         ..               4.7                      33.4
POPCLATION PER PMTSICLS          8330.0/b   3100.0bh   1920.0/b           35C6.0                   7771.9
P.  ? PE  3W1357G PERSON         6020.0      2830.0     1190.0            6797.9                    2462.6
POP. PM  OS?tTAL an
TOYAL                          1040.0       760.0      490.0             1100.6                   1067.2
cum                             210.0          ..      160.0             298.6                    651.1
ROAL                          10260.0          ..     1010.0            5941.6                    2591.9
ADiSSOS    smPIL  M                  ..          ..         ..                ..                     27.0
AVURAS SUE or MSCD 
TOMaL                              ..          ..        5.2
0315                               ..          ..        6.2...
M                                  ..          ..        5.s
AURAS MO. or PLUSMIROW
TOTAL                              ..          ..
mAn                                ..          ..         .                  ..
Ata                                ..          ..         .                  ..
Accass TO tcLrT. (2 orDIC.LN"CS)
TOUL                              '. '..                 '''   
arn                                ..          ..         ..                ...-
m.                                 ..          .....



- 22 -                                                  ANN   I
Page 2 of 6
OQNA. PPELZS tEp. or - SOCIAL IUIDICATOS DATA SHEET
:NINAw OfLI'S RE. or                 RaERUEcE mouPs (MrIGNOID aUlA^ S) Is
MST                     (tPeST RECErr ESTIMATE) lb
19601b     lb RECEVT              LO W  7Hez              UOLE ! c
1979- E5TmASSDa          ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA A PACIFIC
UDCATI0IP*
ADJUSMD ESOUIENT RATIOS
PRIARY:  TOTJL                   109.0      110.0       117.0              96.1                     101.2
PALE                     ..                  126.0              107.8                    106.0
nPEL!                    ..          ..      106.0               82 .                     97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 21.0        23.0        34.0              30.2                      44.9
E                        ..         ..        40.0               37.3                     50.0
FLC                      ..         ..        27.0              22.2                      44.6
VOCATIOHIAL ( OF SECONDARY)           .,         ..         2.2               2.3                      18.5
PUPI.-TEACHER RATIO
RINAp                              ..          ..        26.0              34.4                     32.7
SECODA                             ..          ..        17.0              18.4                     23.4
ADULT LITERAC RATI CZ)             43.0d         ,,        69.011            53.5                      72.9
PASSECCR CASITNAD  OP                ..          ..          ..               1.6                      9.7
RADIO   cIvERs/TousADS               ..          ..       150.6              96.8                    113.7
TV RECEITERSITHOUJSAND POP            ..         ..        15.E               9-9                      50.1
IEUSPAPER (DAILY CENMRL
INTEREST) CIRC1LATION
PER THOUSAD POPULATION               ..          .          ..              16.4                      54.0
CIsNDA ANUAL ATTENDANECAnTA          ..           .          ..               3.6                      3.4
LABOR POSER.'.
TOrAT LAOR FoRCE (Tos)          319589.OL/  377495.0   463348.0
EUiLE (WiRff)                    38.3        38.0        37.2              33.3                     33.6
AICULTURE  RCEaTr)                  ..         ..        63.9              69.0                      50.9
IISUSTRY (PERT)                     .-         ..        13.7              15.8                     19.2
PA-RTCIPATIOl RATE (RCDtrE)
TrJAL                            46.U1       45.0        46.7              42.5                     38.6
HALE                             55.9/       54.5        57.0              54.4                     50.7
VEWIA                            37.0fl      35.0        35.9              Z9.0                     26.6
ECOOMIC 0EEDEIY RATIO               0.9/        1.0         0.8               L.0                      1.1
Ina  DISXS0rI
PECENr OF PRIVATE IGIE
RECEIVED SY
NIOIIEST    OF WOUSEN(LDS          ..           .        12.51k            16.5                      22.2
ICHIEST 202 OF NUSEUUDS             ..         ,,        3937              43.5                     48.0
LEZST 2Cr OF HOSEMUMLDS             .          ..         6.d7r             6.9                       6.4
LWEJST 4wr or uou OsS               ..         ..         3.4              17.5                     1S.5
POVEC TAWS"      P
ESTDKATED ASLUE POVERTY INCOIE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
B                                   ..          .          ..             133.9                    194.5
UR                                 .           ..          ..             111.6                    155.0
ESTDEATED R.ATIvE POVERSY INCOME
LEV.EL (USS PER CAITA)
RBAN                               ..          ..          ..               ..                     178.0
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               -.                     164.8
ESTIMATED 708. NE.O ARSUgE
POVERTY IC   LEE  (Z)
MtBAI                              ..          ..          ..              43.3                     24.4
RURAL                                                                      51.7                     41.1
NOT AVAILAU.E
MOr AmICAUE
NOTES
/a  The greep a"raes for each indicator are population-weichted arirheetic m&no. CAWerge of c atrles mo   the
indiscator depends on faala-blity of data and IS not umiforn.
/b  Valens otherwime noted  -Data for 1960- refer to *ny year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970- befeen 1969 and
1971; and data for Moat Neeurt EAtimte betwen 1979 and 1931.
/c Interpolated 1957-62 data; Id 1964; Ie 1955-65 averq;: If PercenCte of w_en of reproductive de;  [ 1955.44
wvrage; /h Senior doctor of _*tern medeSnn; I 1982; 71957; lb Diatribution of pople rankd by bomEelda per
Caplta incme.
All poultion and vital statiatice are Bonk eatltme whicb  dtffer from Chinem offlcia ttatiattei.
ForaI education only: non-for_l aroll,2 t nc teo  btantial.
Definition end cowerag  differ from tbae of Cinoese offieial statitta.



a-dlw  a-Jet   flea-ls. -.eea atma.   a.        -   W  m
-    -id-     .-a  I-a-  -       sa- gs-al                      a
-.-a            J.        -t -           _U"~a-a-  -s-   a wt      a.  . .
*tla  a    - I1~l-.9 J-a       t-a .... SSd -. 15-i      n                               5   -   l    .    ni           ~     a      e    I
- 15 -   *-s5  - ,.ta.aM TMa  I1n  7n    *      ---i       -m                                   -~a      a..- -,-aM  SCInJI1 Mli a-i     
.lPLJ55  *55 *l~aa .setoaala-I ISah               5   1WSI 14 .%I        a
~~~rO, &.a-am                                                                 aLl~~~~~~~~~~~M 7   :-a" isd
AM              V_ ..,.I _,,ftl                                      -~*.- tr        tr   tI'.tla  ais. -f  at.. 
an ...saaS Os eS           'fr a-5sSJC-               )a-.I5.                        .u-a.-               = .    a4  *OtW-'          IT.lt~      5LI-  a. .-
i ean  -  p..-.     -a  -aa e.a   st 1.5...*                                           5*-   .-    m        -T
,.qbl  -4                                                                                      aft!~~~~~~~~CS        i*ttISE       P- ",Oa  vt-
-aa-                                                 DIear  .  .  -aa   .1t-    -l   Palt a 5346wn *I5 Sef s
-a.. - aalt.. *SI -  -.s-t -~                                               -..tt       *ae  ----a -i*ll-P-    ~   SIn                 5*      -
!C1flsa-s  -  *gs p    a-~~la   ao.  -   -   1-1 J* fl2.~~5  -  iota-    as. ag -  a   - -I-l.a tela- as ma- t. P f- llle
- es-a sea ae~a  a  .ts.i-.a-s F -  Ia  M.  m.   Ca. I -                     tot-t.aPm- M.1     ~     Us -. SOa.CC6  w!i   Ists         Pst 6
bisi-1    -W.  -1-         -saw l..e-aC                         aeSad         -an   s.a4a     jaw  aC   ss *s*as.i *.  aa  *a M-
-aD mi      tOtl   cat*t*..a*ta--I                                                                                 --aws  e  . -aa  a  aa0
4-.Is V ~      ~         ~        -.ta   lia                       tsaes          -   sSdCf.S              1w5          -m a  ea
-    -    tt -8 ai--eSa. W   a  t-a.       .swa- a                                             ataea            te . s-a:-  i   cata-
?ata.ts   -- 5.-telt.atn M- *'e      a.t;eatI on                                                                                                   . r
2~ _     ..s-    -        *I 3!    aMIle    tia_"-et     -- ta-                                  - not   ,  - Aem       "n  t.a-a ..n 1
~T,iii -s-tS             e.  t        ft    aa  sSaS    mam1                                                                                         -I.-.
-  l  ~~.aaa.t    a- as, as.  ala      Ca-..-a.                                  tttt       -a.  .0a                A.  a:.  -1a-  afl
otata ta-a-ta.          ~~-i aa g       S- saf   - nl              -= a-.  -.a              -
.  flao. flar   ta-  -  tOt, a-a  a-ta-a tos                                            --ew~~~J. z   ta   a.a  ae.  l-ot
sea-  Cta .sss soa- -w               .   ....Cs. a-.as.3 ft   --                 n-,   -           aaa           e    a-iaaas. ls.a  .. wam
T~~~_W_       1-mis                         sat-.aaC-    'CSI'lai--fl
-- %a -4       tI         aa-de        1-a--ss sIstC,aaCdMs -. sisisis. _iidf                                                    OLE -e aLA-I
a- (ata Sw    a -a  tt a-te   eCt -80  3siss-, i55ase.msift- ttoa-Ga aa-  s                                ,a ahSm,-  -fi la-aa  a   n            .ls.
p-    -3.4         .iI   a.-na                                            -e--jar-  aa  '~-a-   as a-t               m
SIai-.-   w--lel  -..e.   a-m-  - ~ 2-la-a                -.s-S-tea5                                                -    aI        Ssl1-           -tabs
-ft.- J.               w-I-gm" s- ---1ss.a-taa  -    -   -6                            n         -_  -tW 1-aSS.fl        -l
-5ia- m           a     -a.t a.~so--am           -  tut-.M                an        ---a.r  sa -                 a  -ta-I S  .a --- a -..        -      .
&TV .. 5aaeses is iss  -  -tn- sm    ae.- a-a K-t   32                                                                     -aS  - lIt. -o lt-t-T%_-
10    IaE   aSla   S                              -at       la        -al                                aS      -         a  -     m      a.ia           t a
i      a xatm-                 l      sl          a--se  CtlS                  ila                                                       ta   -a .Slt-



-24 -                                     A         I
Page 4 .2 6
Pap.latiw  1,00 1 minion (mid-12)
GW VW caq       US00 1962)
CI3A - x      WC     S
1957-70  1l70-    1975  1979  1960  I961   1
prodoctiou
A     _rcuitm                2.2     3.4     9.0   6.6   3.9   6.6  11.0
IS*t In6astry                5.3     1.8    10.8   9.6  15.4  14.1   5.7
Remy i2_tzy                 11.6     9.3    15.6   7.7   1.4  -4.7   9.9
Not 1atoda prodset CM)         5.2     4.8    1Z4    7.0   6.1   4.8   7.4
1957   1970   1977   1975   19?9   1960   191   1982
Price.
Reta    CluWs (1970.10) 92.2  100.0  102.7  103.3   105.4  IIL7  114.4  116.6
Me deflato       (C1970100) 90.7  100.0   99.1  100.5   104.5  10BA   1I0.  110.9
_e  rat.          MM5)        2.46   2.46   1.36   L.68    1.55   L50   L.71  L.89
J                                                   Averag Ama! Cowb
192                Sbars of Cp(Z)                  (Z)at Coascent
Ratlui ACCo_              CSiaIa b197   1979   1962   19*5   1990 1957-70  1970-79 197962  196240
/a      la
GM                        260.4    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   s:i    5s            6.0     6.5
Agricalte                96.1        ..   32.5   36.9   32.4   27.9   I.6        3.2      5.6     3.2
ladeltr                 105.4        ..   43.5   40.5  "4.    481   12.1          .9     7.4      8.2
Ocher                    589         ..   2.0   22.6   23.2   24.0   3.5         4.3      1.2     7.1
Coamti_                  181.6      76.4   6.4   69.7   73.8   76.7   2.7         5.4     5.7      7.4
-avetmt                     3.2      23.2   32.5   25.1   27.5   25.0   9.8        6.8     2.3      4.8
_zpets GWS                 24.9       3.7/b  6.0    9.6    8.7    8.1   1.6/b   8.01b  14.1         3.2
Impat    S                 20.0       3.Stb 6.8    7.7   10.0    9.5   2.37i   9.47    2.7          7.9
natimi savins              75.9      23.6_c 31.9   30.3   26.4   23.0    ..
As Z of GSW
Public nlmuc                              1957        1979        19m1
Clctac ruvms  (sacledig foreiga        28L7        27.4        22.6
cate.t expenditures                     16.1        17.7        14.6
S::pl  C+) or defict C-)               +G6          49.7        46.0
Capital expmditure                      11.9        15.1         5.6
Foreig  bezrwig  td                      0.7         0.9         1.6
Other lu rrcator.                       1957-79  1979-2   1962-85  1965-90
/a
GF growth rate CZ)                      5.4      6.0       5.7      7.0
OW peV capita growth cats CZ)           3.5      4.6       4.A      5.5
Eaerw co_sptIo  growt rate (C)          8.3
raM                                     5.4       ..        ..      3.6
2srgisal Sevin" rate                    0.42      ..        ..      0.16
report elaticity                        0.95    0.45       1.9      1.3
la NW basis.
omly.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7ii Coo" ooly.
7E- aDS.



- 25 -                                     AM= I
ag  S of 6
P.e 1tios   1.008 minion Cl1492)
Q per capita: USS300 (1962)
=73A -  EmT   LADR
Amnac                             A,mag Crowtb Rates CZ)
C(llio  11SS at                       cst coostut 190 prices)
indcator                    carrent prces)                  Actl                            ro
1982                 1979   1980   1961   1962   1963  1966 1=95   1966
Externa Trade
1rchaa         o               ZZ.476               Z3.5  16.8  15.9    6.2    2.6   2.0   1.0   4.0
Energy                        5.353               . .
Other prIma                   5.110                            ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
Hinufactures                 11.356                  .      .     ..      .      ..     .     .-      .
Other                           657                 ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
!      1ercdise Imports        17.830                Z1.7  16.7  -4.6    3.0    7.6  15.0  10.0   9.0
Food                          4.003                  ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
Ptle                             0                   ..    ..    ..            0      0             o
ischiner and equipeent        3.405        ,.              ..    ..    ..
Otber                        10.4Z2                 ..    ..    ..    ..    ..
Prices
Export price Index (1978-100)      ..               100.0  115.9  119.1  114.4  109.8  113.0  117.S  124.2
Import price index (1978-100)      .               100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9  103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Term of trade indez (1975-100)   ..                 100.0  99.4  97.7  110.1  106.6  10l.1  106.5  10r.7
Compositio  of Ibrchaudlme Trade CZ)             Averae Annual Increas  (2)
(at current Priem)                          (at constant prces)
1979  1960   1981   19S2  1985   1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-8  1962-6  195-90
Exports                   100.0  100.0  100_0  100.0  100.0  100.0    1.6      IL0      14.6     1.9      4.0
-nergY                    19.5  25.1  22.9  23.6  10.9    0                         ..      ..
Otber prilmy              34.1  28.4  24.1   22.8  24.2  23.8         ..       ..
Nanafactures              46.4  46.5  47.8  50.5  59.5  70.9          ..       ..
Other                     0      0      5.2   2.9    5.4   5.3        ..       ..
Lmorts                    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    2.3       9.4      3.2    10.8    10.0
Food                       ._    ..  19.6  22.5   20.0  16.           ..       ..O..
nrw                       0      0      0      0      0      8.2      ..      0        0        0
achinexry and             25.2  27.5  24.2  19.1  26.7  25.1          ..       ..       ..
equipmet                                                                     ..
nther                       ..     .  56.2  58.5  53.3  69.9
Sbare of Trad With
Share of Trade With    '     are of Trade With          Countries with Centrally
industrial Countries CZ)  D  loping Coutries CZ)          Planned  Enomies (S) /a
Direction of Trade          1978          19821        978           1981             1978           19S1
Exports                   37.3          &5-9        51.6           50.2             11_1            3.9
Ioports                  73.3           76.8        17.5           13.7              9.2            4.5
/a Includes the SoviLet Union, Eastern Europe. Cuba, North Korea and Ibugolia.



- 26 -                      AIM= I
Page 6 of 6
Poplatica:; 1.008 mllIon (mid-1962)
M per caita: USS300 (1962)
CHINA - RALANCH OFPA UME =UhAL CAPITA AND OMT
(milie   I= at         t  ices)
tua                                 Projected
indicator                           1979    1980   1981      193z2   1983    1s85    1990
estimate
5.cma  of Pa-yment
Exports of goods and services         15.351  20.901  25.157   25.989  26.300  29.350  48.020
of which: M.rchmdls  f.o.b.         13.658  16.492  22.027   22.476  22,150  24,420  39.330
Imports of goods and servlces         18.204  24.752  24.380   20.793  22.100  30.040  59.470
of wich-: Ibrchsbdise f.o.b.        16.212  22,049  21,047   17.830  19,010  26.230  52,760
Net transfers                            596     500    680       412    420      500    800
Corent account bslsane                -2,257  -3.351   1.457    5.608  4.620   -190 -10.650
Private direct investe t                   -      57    265       359     400     SD0   1.500
mP  loam  (net)                          600   1.130    416       426    400      300   6.000
Official                               350   4*6    479         557     600 G.
Private                                450     684    -63    -131    -200
Otbhr capital                          2,054   2.555     365    -102   -400    -600   1.000
campe i net reservs (w-"r
increase)                             -597    -391  -2,503  -6,291   -5.020  -510   2.150
Inte3rmetica 1reserves                 7,274   7.665  10.168   16.459   21.479    ..
of mhcbh:  gold                      5,120   5.120  5.120    5.120    5.120 D.
Reserves as montb  imprts                4.8     3.7    5.0       9.4     11.6
ixterus1 Capital and Debt
Grows   us                                .       ..      ..
Concessqml loanm.
DAC                                   ' 
OPEC                                  ..
IDA                                    .
Oter                                  ..      .
_oc.esoa loan                           ..      .        .       .
Offical leort credits                ..
Otbhr Multilateral                    ..
Private                               .       .
Txternal debt
Debt outstanding and disbursd           ..  5.433   5,785    6.058
Official                              ..
?rivate                               ..      ..      ...
UndIsbursed debt                                    ..
Debt service
Total servce payments           ..      ..      ..      ..       .
interest                     ..       .       *
Payments as Z exports CGPS     ..       ..    5.0      7.81    10.01a
Averge interest rate on mew
lo      )                       ..
Average maturity of mw loons
(years)    oe                 o.
/a Including mee early repayment of principal.



- 27 -                                    AMIE  II
STATUS OF BMSK GROGP OPERATIONS IS THE PEOPLE'S REPCJLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Parch 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit                                                       (S millions)
Number    Year   Borrower              Purpose         Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2021/     1981   People's Republic   Univ. Dev.        100_0  100.0     133.6
1167             of China
1261      195Z   People's Republic   Agric. Dev.         -    60.0       425
of China
2207      1982   People's Republic   Ports             124.0     -      124.0
of China
1297      1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and         -    75.4       70.4
of China             Research
22261     1982   People's Republic   Industrial         4C.6   30.0      67.7
1313             of China             Credit
2Z31      1983   People's Republic   Daqing            162.4     -      160.0
of China             Petroleum
2252      1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan         100.8     -      100.0
of China             Petroleum
22611     1983   People's Republic   Hellongjiang    35.3   45.0         80.0
1347             of China              Land Recla-
nation
1411      1983   People's Republic   Polytechnic.TV    -    85.0         85.0
of China             University
1412      1983   People's Republic   Technical           -    10.0        9.8
of China             Cooperation
1417      1984   People's Republic   Rubber              -   100.0      100.0
/a       of China             Development
2382      1984   People's Republic   Lubuge Rydro-  145.4        -      145.4
lb       of China             electric
Total                                708.5  505.4   1 118.4
Toral now held by Bank and IDA              708.5  505.4
Total undisbursed                           704.4  414.0
B. STATErENT OF IFC INVESXETS
(as of Yarch 31, 1984)
None
/a Signed on Januarv 5. 1984. became effective on April 13. 1984.
lb Signed on March 12. 1984. became effective on June 12, 1984.
Subsequent to the above date of statement, the following loans and credits
vere approved:
1.  Loan of 5220.0 million for the Railvay Project. signed on April 13,
1984. became effective on July 10, 1984.
2.  Credit of SDR 47.2 million (S50.0 million) for the Rural Credit
Project, signed on June 1. 1984, but not yet effective.
3.  Credit of SDR 80.2 million (S85.0 million) for the Rural Health and
Medical Education Project, signed on June 1. 1984, but not yet
efEective.
4.  Loan of 5100.3 million for the KaraJmy Petroleum Project. signed on
June 25. 1984, but not yet effective.
5.  Credit of SDR 65.8 million (70.0) and loan of SIO5.0 million for
the Second Industrial Credit Project (CB II). signed on June 25,
1984, but not yet effective.
6.  Cred.t of SDR 22.0 million (523.5 milllon) and loan of 545.3 ail-
lion for the Second Agricultural Educatlon Project, signed on
July 9, 1984. but not yet effective.
Note:  The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects In execution, which is up-
dated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 28 -
ANhNEX III
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           Six months
(b)  Project prepared by:                     Staff of Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
(c) First presentation to IDA and
first mission:                         April 1983
{d)  Departure of Appraisal mission:          August 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:              July 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           November 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Candidates for overseas fellowships would be selected in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to IDA and would receive language train-
ing as needed at the language centers established under Cr. 1297-CHA
(para. 47);
(b)  By August 31 of each year, research programs and technical
assistance plans for the following year would be prepared for IDA
review (para. 48); and
(c)  The PO, PC, and PlUs would be established and/or maintained and
adequately staffed with qualified personnel during the life of the
proposed project (para. 61).



S      V  I E T        U  N           I O 
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r t                                       OT14 G O
A                                                                                                                                            WA
2  P-1-?~~_/ M-      '!_:...... 1-1
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iSI#II                                         N G_ 
X.  -   _~. P.- M-,                                                                                                                         GAIVS
tFGHA I                   ..A  . . ...
14                   Fl  , z .n
5 ~ ~ ~ ~~T- Cwrur XSlh* CZA MG_e- <-
SEON  AGRICLTURA  RESEARCH PROJECT5 
9~~~~~~~ ml                           A w     . t_._ T . ...... ... S,._   ............... 
t  *-1~~ Cs-et ws- X 1 s . r -- ........................... S . { _ ! _ ......  FU _ 4 P
It   eE a.  {.-1 4 f 1 w8nd  @  w   ........................  -w_...         ~         J      \K 
2 41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rtrsuq  I_ ..........rI__ ... * '
1 3   Sll^ew    C    w R_r - wt t Crew!                                             t~~~~LAU tOPE-S~-,
4   Irsg llSbjulse Fl_    ;~~~~~~~,DMOCATCo
S   51e tr__t 14wer lzrt W To rnntl ( rnr_   .t t Z 4 1W                                             EPUBLIC;



iBQD -182, 2R
U :N  I O  N                                             Cl    
>       {                                          H t I ; I N S J I a J  C 
9~~~~~~ _                                                r  EICAI
\,~~~~~~~~POL'  REPUBLIC
Pi ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~f WC   .                         5                                       V
r~~~~~~~~~     
_  /  .,   ,   .  ,                                      ,     PEOPLE S ~~~~~~REPUBLIC 
.'       |                                ^f d F Ir                                           Of KOREA 
5 ~ ~ ~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~ I        0 ;  A,
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                  ;       A V GS U ~_'&L~
s S   - X~~~ S     t      
c~~~ )      .:! 
l                                              s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U *A [ z
/ - ^_~~~~,        \C_ rA  - v 
~~~~~~~~~~~~te  -Wi, .  KIM. UK *!<w 
>~~~~~~~~~~~A.. P:H 1m                                                                    40                          low1' 
E h   1io   r                                                   K 1 LtWIF I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%1 F FS       200  110      IOC0
* --3PIE S<
- RATiC  i                          ..... .....
3L IC  - ,_YIEr NAMt
_E?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
July 195A



