Docuent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
Report No. 5039-C-A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
July 23, 1984
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This doument bas a restricted disbution ad   y be usd by recipients only in the performnce of
their offica dues ls contents may not oderwise be diclosed without World Bank authorizton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00   =  Y1.97 (at time of appraisal)
Y 1.00    =  US$0.51
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                =  3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres
=  l5 mu
I kilogram (kg)            =  2.2 pounds
I ton                      =  1,000 kg
2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
CAS       -    Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAAS      -    Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CAST      -    Chinese Association of Science and Technology
CMB       -    Central Meteorological Bureau
CNTIC     -    China National Technical Import Corporation
GVAO      -    Gross value of agricultural output
MAAF      -    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries
MF        -    Ministry of Forestry
MWREP     -    Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PC        -    Project Commission
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PO        -    Project Office
SSTC      -    State Science and TechnoLogy Commission



FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJEC=;
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND
..................................,.....  ... ,,... 1
The Agriculture Sectrr                                                 1
Bark Group Lending for Agriculture.........................            4
II.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN CHINA
-Srruter..e ......5....................*........*5
Links Between Research and Higher Education...............             6
Links Between Research and Extens:sono.o.o..... o     n.o...e.         7
Research Priorities.o.............. ...  ...... o...o......o..         8
Project Formulation and Rationale.......................o.             9
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description ........               .............1
Research Centers................ ...  , , ,   .      ,              11
Agrotechnical Extension Stations   ....e.g......        . ....        14
Status of Project Pre aa r a t i o n                                  15
Implementation Schedule. .........                                     s e  15
C,ost   Etme                                                s15
Financing.......... _.......       .      e                           17
Procurement ...... ........e.g...... ,e... Ce... ,ee                  17
Disbursements.       .............          ......      . . , ,       18
Accounts and Audits ..................                                19
Project Management and Implementation...........                      19
Benefits, Justification and Riksks.....                               20
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIOSSo.o.o .........o.o......           21
This report is based on the findings of a preparation mission to China in
April/May 1983 and an appraisal mission in October 1983. The preparation
mission comprised Messrs. W.P. Ting (IDA), H.H. Cheng, A. Piazza, and W. Tai
(Consultants). Appraisal mission members were Messrs. W.P. Ting (IDA),
C.L. Chen, R.W. Etheredge, G.W. Liang, and B.S. Luh (Consultants).
I Tbis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc aO I
their offrci duties Its contents any not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization |



- ii -
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1 Cost Summary        ............   ........................          16
3.2  Annual Price Escalation                       tX)...................................  16
3.3  Financing                              an.................................... 17
3.4  Procurement Profile                  ........                       18
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates
Project Cost Summary
Schedule of Expenditures
Expected Price Increases
Cost Smary by Institutions
Estimated Area and Cost of Physical Facilities
Training and Technical Assistance
2.  Project Institutions by Affiliation/LocationlSpecialty/Staffing
3. Research Center Programs
4.  Procedures for CapitaL Construction
5. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
1. Organizational Structure of the Ninistrv of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry
and Fisheries
2. Organization for Project Implementation
3. Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 18272R - Location of Project Institutions



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I . BACIGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing the Second Agricultural Research Project. The overalL objective of
the project would be to support the Government's plans to upgrade research
facilities, to improve the quality and supply of researchers and technicians,
and to strengthen research planning, management and program formulation. The
project would expand and improve 15 research centers throughout China respon-
sible for priority research in food and cash crops, livestock, aquatic
products, forestry, hydrology and meteorology. The project would also support
a pilot program to strengthen the extension work of ten county-Level agrotech-
nical extension stations. Principal features of the project would be project
works, including construction and renovation of laboratories, offices, farm
buildings and scaff housing; scientific and farm equipment needed for research
and experimentation; library equipment, books and materials for modernization
of library facilities; local and overseas training in the agricultural
sciences and library science; and technical assistance applied to review of
center research programs, program formulation for agrotechnical extension
stations, and future project preparation.
The Agriculture Sector
1.02      Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the source of
income for some 290 million farm families, and accounts for about 35Z of the
country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 mil-
lion ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor
and chemical and organic fertilizers. Nearly half of the arable land is
irrigated and more than half of this area grows at least two crops per year.
Foodgrains occupy about 80% of the cropland and account for 65% of total
agricultural output. This intensive system of production allows China to meet
the basic food needs of its population (about 22% of the world's total) from
less than 8% of the world's arable land. Grain yields are about 50Z greater
than those in other developing countries. Agricultural production is carried
out in conmunes, state farms and privately managed plots which account for
about 87, 5, and 81, respectively, of the country's arable land and 80, 4, and
16% respectively, of the gross value of agricultural production.
1.03      Agricultural development has been accorded high priority since the
.founding of the People's Republic. With investment in agriculture averaging
about 101 of total national investment, the sector grew by about 3.21 p.a.
from 1955 to 1978. Agricultural productivity per hectare of cultivated land
increased considerably. Crain yields nearly doubled between 1952 and 1978;
the most rapid increase occurred inr the years 1965-78 when Covernment policy
_ _



-2-
put special emphasis on achieving self-sufficiency in grain production. These
gains, accomplished through combined application of abundant local labor and
current and capital inputs such as chemical fertilizers, pumpsets, and mecha-
nical threshers, allowed China to feed an additional 300 million people.
Remarkable as this achievement was, because of the arable land constraint,
total production in fact did litle more than keep pace with population growth
during this period. Moreover, the Government's policy of promoting increased
local self-sufficiency in grains checked possible gains from crop specia-
lization and exchange and, in some extreme cases, led to serious ecological
imbalances. By the late 1970s, official assessments began focussing attention
on the unsatisfactory state of people's incomes and living standards, particu-
larly in certain regions of the country.
1.04      Beginning in 1979, the Government departed from previous policy by
setting targets for a relatively high personal growth path and scaling down
,goals for growth in GNP and investment. How to increase the production of
food and other agricultural products needed to help meet this commitment to
improved nutritional and living standards for China's vast population is the
challenge of the next two decades. As an immediate measure, the Government
shifted emphasis from grain self-sufficiency to crop diversification based on
comparative advantage at the local level so as to tap potential gains from
specialization and exchange. Already the effect has been considerable: the
total area sown to grain crops between 1979-82 declined by 6%, while the area
under cash crops rose by 30%. As a result of increases in per ha grain
yields, the total output of both grains and cash crops has increased.
1.05      For the long term, the Government is in the process of refining sub-
sector growth targets and activating the means to achieve them. Major targets
are as follows:
(a) Food Crops. According to current projections, China would continue
to be basically self-sufficient in grain. The Government has tar-
geted grain production (rice, wheat, maize and other coarse grains)
to grow by about 2% annually from the average 1979-81 base to the
year 2000, thougl. the area sown to grain would remain substantially
unchanged. Increased yields would be the major source of output
gains. Plans also call for increasing the productivity of other
food crops such as tubers, cassava, and soybeans.
(b) Cash Crops. Current Governrent planning stresses the need to
improve yields of cash crops, the demand for which is expected to
expand rapidly as incomes rise. In the case of cotton, special
encouragement given to production by price and procurement reforms
and the planting of improved varieties stimulated a 20% expansion of
cropped area and a 39% increase in yields during 1978-82. With
modern inputs and improved extension, cotton specialists believe
that further yield increases of up to 50Z are possible. Per capita
production of other cash crops such as fruits, vegetables, and
oilseeds is relatively low, the primary constraint being weakness of
the processing, transport and marketing systems.



-3-
(c)  Forestry.  Development plans call for increasing' forest coverage
from the present 13Z of China's land area to about 20Z by the year
2000 to meet expected rapid growth in demand for forest products.
Annual per capita wood consumption is currently about 0.05 cu m
compared to 0.08 cu m in India and 1.5 cu m in the US. Reflecting
local shortages and increased demand from population and income
growth, imports of forestry products rose from US$242 mi£lion in
1976 to peak figures of US$642 million in 1980 and about
US$540 million in 1981.
(d) Livestock. Ambitious targets have been set for livestock production
as part of the Government's efforts to improve consumption pat-
terns. By the year 2000, the contribution of the livestock sector
to gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) is projected to rise
from the present 15% to 25Z with meat consumption more than
doubling. Achievement of targets depends on use of animals with
higher genetic potential, better production and management systems,
improved veterinary services and the availability of much larger
supplies of grass, grain and protein supplements. China's extensive
and underutilized grazing areas (estimated at 287 million ha) are
viewed as a potential source of much of the large incremental
supplies of beef and mutton in future years.
(e) Aquatic Products. The Government plans to expand aquatic products
output from the present 5 million tons to 11 million tons by the
year 2000 by emphasizing intensive fish cultivation, particularly in
freshwater ponds. Sources of future growth are expected to include
utilization of presently unproductive water surfaces, conversion of
areas of low-lying land to fish ponds, and increases in yields of
existing fish farms.
1.06      Key elements of the Government's strategy to achieve these growth
targets are:
(a) designation of certain areas as special production bases for
marketable crops;
(b) creation of improved and weLl-integrated systems of production,
storage, transport, and marketing;
(c) expansion of agricultural research activities and increased use of
modern inputs and technology;
(d) improvement of incentives to producers - e.g. encouraging household
agricultural activities and individual enterprises through increased
use of the production responsibility system, providing higher
procurement prices for farm produce, and expanding the flow of
credit to rural areas;
(e)  strengthening the agricultural extension system for rapid transfer
of relevant technology to farmers; and



-4-
(f) continuation of past programs for boosting agricultural output -
e.g. construction of irrigation works, combined use of chemical and
organic fertilizers, production of certified seeds, and d velopment
of pest management systems.
1.07      Improved producer incentives, a renewed emphasis on specialization,
and introduction of new crop varieties are among the principal factors contri-
buting to the high growth performance of the agricultural sector since 1979.
The gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) expanded by about 11% in 1982,
following growth of 5.7% in 1981, and 2.7% in 1980. Since 1978, GVAO has
grown at an annual average rate exceeding 7%, or more than twice the rate
achieved over the previous two decades. Demand for agricultural products is
expected to steadily increase over the next two decades in response to
increasing per capita income and moderate population growth. China's culti-
vated area will remain essentially unchanged over the period - land lost to
roads, urbanization, and industrial development will be approximately offset
by newly reclaimed land - so that meeting future agricultural growth require-
ments will depend critically on increases in cropping intensity and yields on
existing cultivated areas.
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
1.08      The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector is to
support the Government's efforts to raise agricultural production through the
more efficient use of land and water resources and through improvements in
such support services as research and agricultural education. Projects are
also being selected for their demonstration and catalytic impact in addition
to immediate income generation. The first Bank Group operation in the agri-
culture sector, a $60 million IDA credit for the North China Plain Agriculture
Project (Credit 1261-CHA) approved by the Executive Directors on June 15,
1982, will provide irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha covering parts of
nine counties in three provinces. Work on this project,.the first large-scale
attack on soil salinity and water logging in China, is proceeding well. A
second project, the Agricultural Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-
CHA) for $75 million, approved by the Executive Directors on November 2, 1982,
will support the Government's program to strengthen higher education and
research in the agriculture sector by providing civil works, equipment and
technical assistance to selected agricultural colleges and research insti-
tutes. The Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Loan/Credit 2261/1347-CHA),
which was approved on April 18, 1983, will develop 200,000 ha on state farms
in Northeast China by constructing surface drains and access roads and provid-
ing agricultural machinery and other support services to increase marketable
surpluses of wheat, corn and soybeans. The Rubber Development Project
(Credit 1917-CHA), which was approved on November 29, 1983, will assist in new
planting and replanting of 40,000 ha of rubber in Guangdong Province.  The
most recent project in agriculture, the Rural Credit Project, approved on
April 24, 1984, will finance investments in Guangxi Province for the develop-
ment of orchards and other economic tree crops, agro-processing, livestock and
aquaculture through the Agricultural Bank of China.   Future project possibil-
ities include irrigation and drainage, seeds development, aquaculture,
forestry, rural credit, and integrated area development in relatively poor
regions.



-5-
II.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN CHILA..
Overview
2.01      The past 30 years have witnessed some profound shifts in research
policy.  At issue has been tae relative weight to give to professionalism
versus ideological qualifications, to "hard research" versus research related
to practical production problems, and to the build-up of a scientific elite
versus strengthening of the "mass scientific network." In agricultural
research, the net result over the period has been impressive advances in some
areas - in developing high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat, for
example. At the same time, the quality and volume of research has not been
sustained, in part due to prolonged periods of isolation from international
research and development activities. The present research agenda identifies
scientific research and the popularization of results as the key to accelerat-
ing agricultural growth. Along with continued research on major food and cash
crops, planners are calling for experimental work in such areas as livestock
breeding, fish culture, post-harvest technology, grasslands management, and
farming systems. Much recent emphasis has been placed as well on tackling
problems of resource use - water conservation, soil erosion and deforestation.
Structure
2.02      Following the decade-long disruption of the Cultural Revolution
(1966-76), China has reintroduced long-term research planning, reestablished
professional societies under the Chinese Association of Science and Technology
(CAST), and restored the system of professional rather than political manage-
ment of research organizations. The State Science and Technology Commission
(SSTC) is again at the forefront of planning and coordinating China's
scientific work with the help of its affiliates at the provincial level. The
Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), a kind of autonomous academic institution,
is the nation's premier research agency. It supervises the work of over 100
national research institutes which conduct primarily basic research including
important work in the agricultural sciences.
2.03      Ministry-supervised research is another major part of the research
structure. In agricultural research, the most prominent of the ministerial
agencies is the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) under the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries (MAAF). The CAAS is
responsible for 31 research institutes, 3 research laboratories and a central
library and information service. Thirteen of the facilities are located in
Beijing with the remaining distributed over 15 different provinces. As of
June 1983, total CAAS staff numbered 8,897 with about 45% researchers,
10 administrative staff, and 45% support staff. The MAAF also supports other
smaller research agencies - e.g. the China Aquatic Sciences Research Institute
(Aquatic Products Bureau) and the South China Tropical Crops Research
Institute (Bureau of State Farms). Similarly, other ministries sponsor
specialized research: The Ministry of Forestry (hF) is the parent agency for
the Academy of Forestry Sciences, the Central Meteorological Bureau (0MB) is
responsibLe for 6 affiliated research institutes, and the Ministry of Water
Resources and Electric Power (MWREP) oversees 33 affiliated research organ-
izations with a staff of about 5,000.



-6-
2.04      Providing the base of support for the research structure is the
"mass scientific network": the various research organizations run by the pro-
vinces and prefectures. At the provincial level, provincial academies of
agricultural science take the lead in conducting applied research. These
academies are supervised and funded by the provincial government, but guidance
in research planning is provided by the CAAS or other central ministry affili-
ate. Some provincial academies have been assigned responsibility for special
activities such as operating the IMLAAF's 9 newly-established regional testing
centers. Nationwide there are 393 agricultural research institutes at the
provincial level and above (including the CAAS), with a total staff of 59,822
of which 31.5% are researchers, 10.5% administrators, and 58Z support staff.
2.05      During the Cultural Revolution many major research institutions were
closed and staff dispersed to the countryside. As a result of such disrup-
tion, most research institutions suffer from shortages of funds, poor research
facilities and equipment, and inadequately qualified staff. In some cases,
laboratories and office buildings originally belonging to a research institu-
tion but taken over by other government units had to be repossessed and reno-
vated. Experimental fields and greenhouses need to be established or upgrad-
ed. There is a general need for better housing and educational, health and
recreational facilities, especially for research centers in isolated areas.
In terms of equipment, many research laboratories operate with obsolete or
incomplete sets of even the most essential items such as weighing scales,
microscopes, pH meters, and ovens. Qualified staff, especially at the middle
and senior levels, are in short supply. A survey of the 15 research centers
included in the proposed project shows 40Z with only the bachelor's degree or
less; only 132 are at the Ph.D. or equivalent level. Nationwide, of the
18,800 research scientists staffing the provincial academies and CAAS, only
7.5% are Ph.D. equivalent or senior researchers. Apart from formal qualifica-
tions, most staff are in need of refresher courses having been long isolated
from advanced research developments abroad.
Links Between Research and Higher Education
2.06      Except at the ministry level where there is some interaction between
bureaus of science and technology responsible for research institutions and
bureaus of education which oversee higher educational institutions, there are
no well-defined links between the agricultural research strncture and
colleges/universities of agriculture. At the provincial level, what ties
exist are based on personal contacts, precedent and ad hoc arrangements for
joint work on specific projects. The latter kinds of cooperative arrange-
ments, however, are being increasingly encouraged by central funding agencies
for research such as the CAAS which may respond to bids on projects submitted
by both colleges and research institutes by making joint awards.
2.07      Recent trends show a greater involvement of research institutes in
higher education and of higher education institutions in research and this may
lead to establishment of closer ties between the two structures. Since 1979,
national research institutes have been authorized-to establish postgraduate
degree programs. The CAAS, for example, currently has about 200 master's
degree candidates conducting research in its affiliated institutes supplemen-
ted by courses at a local univers;ty. Prominent research scientists have also



-7-
been given special State Council approval as individuals to train students at
the Ph.D. level. Given current limitations on college/uAréersity resources,
making use of such alternatives in postgraduate training is seen as a means to
help rapidly increase the pool of young, well-trained scientific researchers.
2.08      Since 1979 postgraduate and faculty research activities have been
given an increasingly important place in the academic programs of agricultural
colleges and universities. There are at present 85 institutions of higher
learning (4-year colleges and universities and 3-year specialized colleges) in
agriculture (including institutions under the MAAF, MF, MWREP, and CHB) enrol-
ling about 100,000 students including 1X at the postgraduate level. In addi-
tion to participating in short-term research projects assigned by central
agencies, a number of agricultural colleges have played an advisory role in
designing and setting up special regional research units. The new units are
autonomous, but maintain close working relationships with college faculty.
'Links Between Research and Extension
2.09      In general, research is the major function of the national, provin-
cial and prefectural organizations while the counties, communes, and brigades
are primarily responsible for extension, demonstration and training. The MAAF
administers a vast extension network through its General Extension Bureau in
Beijing responsible for supervising a hierarchy of agencies/units reaching
downward to the specialized household level. Though China's past agricultural
successes must be attributed in large part to the effective working of this
system, the Government in 1979 began a major program to further upgrade exten-
sion services and personnel in order to expedite transfer of new technology to
farmers. Plans, now underway, called for replacing the county research insti-
tute in each of China's 2,300 counties with a new agrotechnical extension sta-
tion which would combine under one administration previously independent ser-
vices - e.g. soil testing, seed production, plant protection. Under the cur-
rent production responsibility system which makes the individual household a
key unit in economic decision-making, this consolidation of services is viewed
as the most effective means of ensuring a two-way flow of information between
technical/research institutions and farmers. By 1983 over 300 stations had
been established, two thirds financed by provinces, municipalities and
autonomous regions and one third financed jointly by the MAAF, provinces and
counties. Upgrading of personnel to staff the stations is a major task:
Extension personnel at present number about 170,000 of whom only 35Z are
college or technical school graduates, the rest being experieaced farmers with
no formal extension training. Primary functions of the stations are: (a) to
conduct local testing and demonstration - both at the extension stations and
selected farm sites - of research center findings, (b) to promote acceptance
by farmers of tested packages of new technology, (c) to provide short-term
training courses to "key" farmers who would be expected to relay new knowledge
to other farmers, and (d) to inform research centers of additional production
constraints which may arise as the new technology is widely adopted.



-8-
Research Priorities
2.10      Despite all of its handicaps in terms of facilities, equipment, and
staff and its general isolation from the international research community
(para. 2.05), China's agricultural research system has made a considerable
contribution to increased agricultural production. This is particularly
striking in the case of rice and wheat. China released the first semi-dwarf
improved rice in 1959, seven years before the International Rice Research
Institute released its IR8 variety. In the 1970s, Chiha was the first nation
to develop and popularize a rice hybrid; since then Chinese researchers have
developed techniques for rapidly stabilizing the varietal characteristics in
new plant material. In wheat, also, China has been successful in developing
high yield, disease resistant varieties. China's development strategy for the
next two decades, however, places enormous new demands on the research
system: First, current growth targets emphasize production increases not only
in grains, the area in which past research achievements have been greatest,
'but also in other subsectors - cash crops, livestock, aquatic products - which
have not reaped the same benefits from research. Second, in crop production,
the major source of production increases is assumed to be increased yields -
rather than increased acreage - which implies a major role for research in
supplying new high-yielding, disease- and pest-resistant plant varieties.
Third, research is a critical element in the Government's plans to exploit
underutilized resources to boost production of livestock, aquatic products and
forestry products. Major research priorities developed in response to the
Government's current growth strategy are:
(a)  Food and Cash Crops.  With the cropped area projected to remain at
roughly current levels for foodgrains, production increases depend
largely on maximizing yields through introduction of improved
varieties and improvements in crop husbandry. Priorities in rice
research are development of hybrids with shorter maturation periods
and improvement of seed quality and seed production technology.
Research in wheat, corn and other grains is focusing on these areas
as well as on optimizing fertilizer use and improving irrigation
techniques. A major thrust of wheat research is the development of
disease resistant varieties. Cotton yields have improved markedly
in the past few years, but additional increases are judged possible
with better pest control and extension of the best cultural prac-
tices currently in use. Research into storage, processing, trans-
port and marketing techniques is the key to improving the domestic
distribution and export potential of special cash crops such as
fruits and vegetables.  Overall, more research is needed to estab-
lish the extent to which particular crops have a comparative advan-
tage by region.
(b) Forestry. To meet the projected growth in demand for forest
products, the Covernment has focussed new attention on forestry
research needs including work on forest soils, vegetative propaga-
tion of improved plant materials, and biological control of forest
pests. It is also essential to update forestry inventories con-
ducted in the 1950. and 1960s so as to be able to plan the best use
of existing resources and determine optimum areas for afforestation
and reforestation programs.



-9-
(c) Livestock. Projected major increases in lives tgck production are
critically dependent on research contributions to breed improve-
ments, control of animal diseases, development of high quality
protein feed, and improvement of grasses and legumes. Also
important is research into arid and semi-arid agriculture and into
the potential carrying capacity for livestock of underutilized areas
under various management systems.
Cd) Aquatic Products. To attain projected growth targets, the emphasis
is shifting from fish capture, which has seriously depLeted fishery
resources, to fish culture, especially in freshwater ponds but also
in coastal waters. Research priorities center on developing
improved breeds, upgrading feed management and production,
strengthening storage and processing techniques, and improving
systems to coordinate fish farming with animal raising.
(e) Water Resource Development. The major focus of MWREP-spcnsored
research is on increasing the efficiency of water usage and
expanding the present irrigated area through improved design and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage systems. The Kinistry is
also emphasizing, as a back-up to all research, the need to
establish a computerized informatiqn retrieval/communication system
linking the Beijing center with major river basin agencies, regional
water conservancy authorities, reLevant institutes and universities,
and international data sources.
(f) Meteorology. Research in meteoroLogy has as its major objective
improvement of weather surveillance and prediction for major
agricultural areas. Special emphasis is being given to establishing
a severe weather wanning system and conducting weather modification
experiments.
Project Formulation and Rationale
2.11      As part of its overall program to boost the level and efficiency of  '
agricultural production, the Government is placing high priority on streng-
thening the support services provided by the research, extension and education
systems. Under the IDA-financed Agricultural Education and Research Project,
the Government selected for an initial phase of assistance 11 agricultural
colleges and seven research institutes, all key institutions covering essen-
tial aspects of the agricultural sciences, forestry, fisheries, meteorology
and hydrology. Major support is being given to rice research under the
project through assistance to the National Rice Research Institute. Work on
the project is proceeding on schedule: Civil works for new laboratories and
classroom buildings are underway, award of contracts for new equipment has
-been completed, and institutions have begun programs of sending personnel for
overseas study and training. A project-sponsored manpower study, now nearing
completion, has effectively demonstrated the potential uses of manpower
analysis for educational planning. A recently-completed Agricultural Research
Study, also financed under this first project, has enabled the Government to
further clarify national research priorities and, on this basis, to develop a
project for second phase assistance.



- 10 -
2.12      The Agricultural Research Study (para. 2.11) has confirmed that the
main needs of the system are to improve the physical faci1&ties for research,
to develop the requisite high level manpower to increase research quality and
volume (para. 2.05), to strengthen research planning, management and program
formulation, and to ensure effective communication of research results to
farmers. The major rationale for Bank Group involvement in the proposed
Second Agricultural Research Project is to assist the Government in addressing
these needs. In particular, it would enable the MAAF and other agencies
responsible for project implementation to gain access to improved technology
and technical advice based on international experience. Based on the Agricul-
tural Research Study and consultation with the Bank Group, the Government has
selected for assistance 15 research centers and ten agro-technical extension
stations. The project would support these 15 centers located in areas with
wide differences in climate and physical conditions such as Inner Mongolia,
Guangzhou, Xinjiang and the North China Plain. The centers would focus on
research in food and cash crops, fisheries, livestock, forestry, hydrology,
and meterology.  A detailed discussion of research conducted by each center is
given in Annex 3.
2.13      The project also includes an extension component.  To facilitate the
transfer of new production technology from research centers to farmers and of
farmers' problems back to the research centers, the Government is now engaged
in a-large-scale program to upgrade extension facilities and personnel with a
special focus on building county-level agrotechnical stations. Three hundred
such stations are already in existence; plans call for establishing one in
each of China's 2,300 counties. In support of this effort, the project
proposal includes a pilot program of assistance to ten newly-created extension
stations. The aim is to develop a model to be replicated nationwide. In this
feature the project complements the Second Agricultural Education Project now
being processed. That project includes assistance to eight college-based
training and extension support centers designed primarily to (a) provide in-
service training to senior technicians assigned to the county agrotechnical
stations and (b) develop plans for upgrading secondary school teachers in the
agricultural sciences.
2.14      The original project proposal, prepared by the MAAF, was reviewed by
an IDA mission in April 1983. During that and subsequent missions, discus-
sions involving the MAAF, IDA staff and consultants led to several changes in
the project's technical features. These included:
(a) adjustments in the types of scientific and audio-visual equipment
provided to the research centers;
(b) development of a standard package of simple equipment items for the
agrotechnical extension stations;
(c)  introduction of technical assistance for periodic reviews of center
research programs;
(d) greater emphasis on training at international research centers;
! 



- 11 -
(e) organization of preproject study tours to the U.S. to study potato
and fruit processing technology and laboratory-animal facilities;
(f) establishment of Extension Committees under Provincial Bureaus; and
(g)  improved planning and design of project buildings.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project would expand and improve 15 research centers throughout
China responsible for priority research in food and cash crops, livestock,
aquatic products, forestry, hydroLogy and meteorology. The project would also
support a pilot program to strengthen the extension work of ten county-level
agrotechnical extension stations. Principal features of the project are:
(a) project works: construction or renovation of 112,000 sq m of
laboratories. offices, farm facilities, and staff housing for the
research centers;
(b) scientific equipment, farm equipment and computers: scientific
equipment, both standard and specialized items, farm equipment and
computers for the research centers and audio-visual and analytical
equipment for the extension stations;
(c) library equipment, books and materials to upgrade research center
library facilities;
(d) local and overseas training for both center and station staff in the
agricultural and related sciences, management and library science;
and
(e) technical assistance: consultant services to assist in review of
center research programs, program formulation for the extension
stations and future project preparation.
Research Centers
3.02      The 15 research centers selected for second phase funding are loca-
ted in eight provinces and one municipality representing six different agro-
ecological zones. A breakdown by affiliated agency shows four under the CAAS,
two directly administered by the MAAP, two run by provincial agricultural
bureaus, four under the MWREP, one each under the MF and CMB, and one associ-
ated with a key agricultural college (Annexes 2 and 3). Research concerns of
the 15 centers reflect Government priorities of raising crop yields, develop-
ing underutiLized resources, and improving resource/information management.
Centers were selected for inclusion in the project because of their potential
- based on past research achievements, location, importance of research pro-
grams, relatively competent research staff - to respond rapidly to the needs
for increased agricultural productivity. Most centers are currently providing



- 12 -
or will be expected to provide technical and consultative services; several,
in addition, are offering postgraduate degree programs and-short-term training
for local technicians. Assistance provided under the project, therefore, is
expected not only to increase the research output of the centers, but to en-
able them to function more effectively as regional/national resources and
training centers in major agricultural disciplines.
3.03      Project Works.  Civil works financed under the proposed project
would cover construction and renovation of research laboratories, offices,
farm experiment facilities and staff housing for 12 of the 15 proposed
research centers. Funds for farm improvement - land leveling and road, irri-
gation and drainage system upgrading - would be included for four of the
12 centers.  By the end of the project, 61 new or renovated laboratories and
ancillary facilities would lay the foundation for planned increases in
research programs. Proposals for civil works, drawn up by each research
center, have been approved by the MAAF. Site surveys and preliminary building
designs prepared by Local survey and design institutes have also been approv-
ed, as required, by the Civil Works Division within the MAAF's Planning
Bureau. Although termed "preliminary", the building designs in fact provide
all the necessary details upon which to base reliable cost estimates. Con-
struccion would be carried out by local government construction companies
selected by each research center. The research centers would enter into a
unit-price contriact iiiEh the construction companies with prices based on
Government pricing standards.  Technical supervision of construction would be
the joint function of the Construction Bank, the research center and the con-
struction company (Annex 4). Estimated area and cost of physical facilities
are shown in Annex 1, Table 6.
3.04      Scientific Equipment, Farm Equipment and Computers.  The project
would finance laboratory equipment, materials and supplies, farm equipment,
and computers for the 15 proposed research centers. Laboratory items would
account for about 70% of all equipment and would include balances, centri-
fuges, optical equipment, analytical equipment, cooling and heating equipment,
and glassware and chemicals. The project would provide six minicomputer
systems and 14 microcomputers to 9 of the 15 institutes. Computers would
cover about 20% of total equipment expenditures. The project would enable the
centers to improve the quality of ongoing research and to begin about 55 new
research projects including: varietal improvement of rice and wheat; post-
harvest technology and fruit processing; development of late blight resistant,
high starch content potato varieties; improving seed quality and fiber
strength in short maturation cotton; production of specific pathogen free
animals for experimental purposes; and breeding fish adaptable to the North
China climate.
3.05      Library Equipment.  The project would help expand and upgrade
existing research center library facilities to enable the library to assume a
more pivotal role in center research activities. In the case of certain
centers - e.g., the Cotton, Corn, and Wheat. Research Center at Anyang.- a
relatively isolated location makes a well-equipped library especially impor-
tant. The project would finance essential library equipment including print-
ing and copying, microfilm, and microfiche machines and a microcomputer. The
availability of duplicating equipment would encourage circul-ation of current



- 13 -
abstracts from the centers to smaller research units. The project would-also
provide furniture, filing cabinets and shelves and wouldtfinance acquisition
of reference works, research publications, and current and back issues of
scientific journals. By the end of the project, center libraries would be
expected to have acquired in total about 240,000 new titles.  About 11 man-
years of overseas training and 22 man-years of local training in library
science would be used to upgrade library staff.
3.06      Local and Overseas Training.  A program of local training and
foreign fellowships would help strengthen the professional qualifications of
research staff at 13 of the 15 proposed research centers. The remaining two
centers - the Forestry Resources Monitoring Center and Nanjing Hydraulic
Research Center - are already receiving assistance in staff upgrading under
the Agricultural Education and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CiA). The propos3d
project would provide a total of 119 overseas fellowships (totalling 98 man-
years) and 293 in-country fellowships (totalling 275 man-years) for training
in basic and applied agricultural sciences as well as library science
(para. 3.05). Twenty-five of the overseas and 53 of the in-country fellow-
ships would be for degree training; 94 and 240 respectively would be for
individual short-term training and group study visits. The short-term over-
seas category would include at least one trainee from each center appointed to
follow a complete cropping cycle at one of the major international research
centers such as IRRI, CIMMYT, ICRISAT, and CIP.  By the end of the project,
about 35Z of existing research staff of the 13 centers-involved would receive
some form of training, about 10% abroad. An assurance was obtained from the
Government that candidates chosen for overseas study would be selected in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association and that those chosen
would receive language training as needed at the language centers established
under Cr. 1297-CHA. About 1,600 man-months of language training are proposed
for financing under the proposed project. Along with supporting a fellowship
program, the project would provide a modest sum to 7 centers to defray costs
of conferences, seminars and workshops attended by fellowship holders during
their tours overseas or conducted locally for groups of centers with common
research concerns. This assistance would encourage interaction between
Chinese researchers and the international research community as well as
promoting exchanges of ideas among research centers within China.
3.07      Technical Assistance.  The project would finance approximatelX 92
man-months of consultant services to assist the research centers on a short-
term basis in program development and review and to participate in conducting
workshops and seminars. Consultants would provide specialized technical
expertise in such areas as crop production research, fish and livestock
production, weather surveillance, irrigation systems, and information manage-
ment. Consultants would also assist in an annual review and evaluation of
center research programs, advising, in-particular, on research planning and
management.  Program reviews would be initiated by directors of the research
centers. . Prior to the arrival of the consultants, each center would prepare
its research program, outlining plans and objectives, budget and staff
requirements. Sucb reviews would help ensure compatibiLity of specific center
programs with national research goals. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that by August 31 of each year, research programs and technical
assistance plans for the following year would be prepared for IDA review. The



- 14 -
project would also provide funds for consultants to assist in preparing a
third-phase agricultural research project.
Agrotechnical Extension Stations
3.08      In support of the Government's plan to improve extension services by
establishing consolidated, courty-level agrotechnical extension stations
nationwide (para. 2.09), the project would support a pilot program of assis-
tance to ten recently-formed stations in ten different provinces/municipali-
ties (Annex 2).  The stations are primarily responsible for conducting local
field trials of research center findings, providing training for "key'
farmers, and keeping the research centers informed of any problems which may
arise as new technology is adopted.  Stations were selected for inclusion in
the proposed project on the basis of: (a) geQgraphic and agro-climatic dis-
tribution, (b) proximity to a provincial/municipal research academy or college
as a potential source of new technology and expertise, (c) relative readiness
In terms of buildings and staff to begin operations, and (d) availability of
counterpart funds for the project from the county budget. Assistance provided
under the project would help deveLop a model which, if successful, might be
extended to the 2,000 counties which have yet to set up consolidated extension
services.
3.09      Equipment.  The project would finance a standard package of equip-
ment for each agrotechnical extension station consisting of simre;e audio-
visual items such as 16    projectors and overhead projectors and basic labor-
atory equipment including microscopes and soil testing instruments. The
project would aLso provide two fieLd vehicles to each station, with the
exception of Beijing, to facilitate outreach activities. The Beijing station
would be supplied with a mobile van on a trial basis for this purpose.
3.10      Local Training.  On the- average, each stationx has 85 staff
members. Under the project, 750 persons or about 90Z of total staff would
receive month-long training courses ai local colleges in such areas as exten-
sion methodology, audio-visual techniques, and use of laboratory testing
instruments. In addition, the project would finance conferences, seminars,
and workshops conducted by staff of each of the 10 stations for the primary
purpose of training selected farmers (para. 2.09).
3.11.     Technical Assistance and Extension Committees.  The project would
finance four man-months of consultant services to assist the ten agrotechnical
extension stations in program formulation. Ongoing advisory assistance would
be provided locally by ten Extension Committees to be established under the
project as policy, planning, and coordinating units within the Provincial
Bureaus' Extension Offices. The Committees would be linked with the MAAF's
Leading Group on Extension, a recently-created central unit responsible for
coordinating the activities of the three major agricultural support services,
education, research and extension. Each Committee would consist of represen-
tatives from the local agricultural college, the provincial academy of agri-
cultural science, and the extension station.  The 'Comuittee would seek to
promote cooperation at the local level. Major functions would include deter-
mining research priorities; allocating research responsibilities among the
college, academy: and sration; advising on the formulation of technology



- 15 -
packages for local testing; reviewing the results of testing; and advising on
inservice training programs for extension station personnel.
Status of Project Preparation
3.12      The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  Land has been
acquired and site surveys and preliminary designs for new buildings prepared
and approved for all project institutions. Equipment lists have been reviewed
by IDA and found to be satisfactory. Bid documents are at an advanced stage
of preparation.
Implementation Schedule
3.13      The project would be implemented over a five-year period beginning
in 1985 (Figure 3). Civil works activities are well underway. Working
drawings and contracting arrangements with local constructicn companies would
be finalized during 1984 so that construction might begin in January 1985.
Bid documents for about 60X of all equipment items have been prepared and
reviewed by IDA; the bid invitation for this first phase of equipment procure-
ment would be expected to be issued by September 1984 and evaluation and award
completed early in 1985. An additional phase of equipment procurement would
begin in late 1985. Equipment deliveries would begin in mid-1985 and be com-
pleted by the end of 1987. Training activities would be expected to start
immediately following negotiations and consultant services by mid-1985.
Cost Estimates
3.14      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$59.0 mil-
lion including contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
$29.6 million or 50Z of tocal project cost. Estimated costs are summarized in
Table 3.1. Costs for buildings include a small element of local taxes on
materials, probably less than 10%. Imported equipment is exempt from taxes or
duties. Cost estimates for civil works, goods and services are based on
January 1985 prices. Civil works were estimated on the basis of preliminary
designs using unit prices based on similar type of work (para. 3.03). Equip-
ment costs were based on suppliers' current price quotations applied to
detailed equipment lists. Costs for overseas training were estimated at
$15,000 per man-year for degree training and $1,000 per man-month for non-
degree training. For in-country training, costs were estimated at $250 per
man-month for degree and $170 per man-month for non-degree training.  The con-
tingency allowance of $12.4 million includes: (a) physical contingencies
($4.1 million) estimated at 10% of base costs for civil works and 101 for
equipment; and (b) expected price increases ($8.3 million) which amount to 16Z
of the base cost plus physical contingencies and are based on the rates of
price escalation for both the local and foreign exchange costs presented in
Table 3.2.



- 16 -
Table 3.1: COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  TotaL  exchange
-(Y million)---    --(USs million)---    (Z)
Civil works              39.2      6.9     46.1   19.9      3.5    23.4       15
Laboratory, office
& farm equipment
& supplies              4.7    29.9      34.6    2.4    15.2    17.5       87
Library development       0.6      2.4      3.0    0.3      1.2      1.5     80
Overseas and local
training                1.8     3.7       5.5    0.9      1.9      2.8     68
Technical assistance
& preparation of
future projects          -      2.8       2.8      -      1.4      1.4    100
Base cost (July
1984 prices)           46.3    45.7      92.0   23.5    23.2    46.6       50
Physical contingencies   4.3       3.7      8.0    2.2      1.9      4.1      -
Expected price
increases               7.3     8.9      16.2    3.7      4.5      8.3      -
Total Project Cost    57.9    58.3    116.2   29.4    29.6    59.0         50
Charge on use of foreign
capital                19.7      -       19.7   10.0       -      10.0      0
Total Financing
Required             77.6    58.3    135.9   39.4    29.6    69.0        43
Table 3.2: ANNUAL PRICE INCREASE
tX)
1984                 3.5
1985                 8.0
1986-88              9.0
1989                 7.5
1990-95              6.0



- 17 -
Financing
3.15      Total financing required, including the charge on the use of foreign
capital, is $69.0 million equivalent. The proposed IDA credit would amount to
$25 million (42X of total project costs) and would be used primarily for
purchase of equipment, most of which would be imported. The remaining
$44.0 million would be financed by the Government. The financing plan is
shown in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Estimated
average
Category of                                                       Bank Group
Expenditure            Government        IDA        Total         financing
(Z of totaL)
Civil works                  28.8            -           28.8                0
Equipment and materials       2.2          20.1          22.3              90
overseas training              -            1.4           1.4             100
Local training                1.7            0            1.7                0
Technical assistance           -            1.5           1.5             100
Unallocated                   1.3           2.0           3.3              61
Total                      34.0          25.0         59.0               42
Charge on use of foreign
capital                    10.0            -           10.0               0
Total Financing
Required                  44.0          25.0         69-.0              36
Procurement
3.16      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4 below.
Scientific equipment and computers with an estimated cost of about $18.9
million would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Small items of equipment costing not
more than $50,000 each and $1.9 million in total would be procured on the
basis of three price quotations under procedures acceptable to IDA. Books in
foreign languages and teaching materials estimated at about $0.9 million would
be purchased directly from publishers or distributors after negotiating for
the best discounts. For equipment procured through ICB, local manufacturers
would be extended a 15X preference margin or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower. Prior IDA review of contract awards would exclude small
contrects ($200,000 or less) estimated to cover less than 15Z of the value of



- 18 -
all contracts. Goods with a value of $2.9 million, mainly small equipment
items, furniture and supplies, would be financed by the Government and pro-
cured locally through local procedures. Civil works ($29.1 million) would be
procured through established local procedures which are acceptable to the Hank
Group (para. 3.03 and Annex 4). Consultants would be selected under terms of
reference agreed with IDA and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for
consultants.
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT PROFILE
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Total
Project Element                          ICB     LP /a     Other /b       cost
Civil works                                -      29.1         -           29.1
(0)                      (0)
Equipment & materials                    18.9      2.9        2.8          24.6
(18.9)    (0)        (2.8)        (21.7)
Overseas training                          -        -         1.6           1.6
(1.6)         (1.6)
Local training                                                2.0           2.0
(0)           (0)
Technical assistance                                          1.7           1.7
(1.7)         (1.7)
Total                              18.9      32.0       8.1           59.0
(18.9)    (0)       (6.1)         (25)
/a   LP stands for Local Procedures which involve the assignment of one or
more civil works contracts to a pre-selected contractor. For goods,
contractors may be factories or suppliers.
/b "Other" includes (i) procurement of equipment on the basis of evaluation
of bids from at least three suppliers; (ii) procurement of technical
assistance and training; and (iii) negotiations with publishers for the
best discounts.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Association.
Disbursements
3.17      Disbursements for equipment, materials and vehicles will be made at
100Z of the foreign cost for direct imports and 100% of the local ex-factory
cost for locally manufactured items. Disbursements for overseas training and
consultant services will be made at 100Z of total expenditures. All



- 19 -
withdrawal applications will be fully documented except: (a) for expenditures
under equipment, materials and vehicles contracts whose value is less than
$50,000 equivalent; (b) for expenditures for overseas fellowships; and (c) for
expenditures under consultants' services contracts whose value is less than
$50,000 equivalent. Withdrawal applications for these expenditures will be
supported by a statement of expenditures certified by the Project Director.
Supporting documentation will be retained in the Project Office in Beijing and
be made available to IDA supervision missions. In order to provide for effi-
cient disbursement of the credit proceeds, a special account will be opened in
U.S. dollars in the Bank of China with an initial deposit of the US dollar
equivalent of SDR 2,430,000 ($2,500,000) which represents the estimated expen-
ditures for the most active three-month period with a margin of 20%. Applica-
tions for replenishment of the special account will be submitted quarterly, or
whenever the special account is drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit,
whichever comes first. Supporting documentation would be retained in the
Project Office (PO) and be available for review by supervision missions.
Opening of the special account would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.18      The completion date for the proposed project would be December 31,
1989 and the closing date, June 30, 1990. The disbursement schedule would be
expected to be somewhat faster than the IDA regional average (Annex 1,
Table 4) because bid documents for equipment are at an advanced stage of
preparation thus making it possible to procure most items in the first three
years of the project.
Accounts and Audits
3.19      Records of civil works expenditures would be maintained by the
Construction Bank of China which would be responsible for disbursements to
construction companies engaged under the project. These records would be
consolidated into a single account by the Construction Bank in Beijing and
forwarded annually to the Project Office (PO) (para. 3.20). The PO would keep
records of equipment expenditures and would prepare an annual account of
equipment and civil works expenditures. An assurance was obtained from the
Government that the accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the close of each financial year. The Ministry of Finance will issue audit
reports in accordance with methods and procedures acceptable to IDA until the
State Audit Agency is in a position to issue audit reports meeting Bank Group
recommended standards.
Project Management and Implementation
3.20      At the ministry level, the MAAF would have primary responsibility
for the proposed project. Interagency coordination where necessary would be
provided by a recently established Project Panel comprising senior officials
from the MAAF, MF, MhWREP, and CMB. The Director of the XAAF's Education
Bureau would serve as Project Director with overall responsibility for project
execution. Day-to-day responsibility for project management would be the res-
ponsibility of an existing Project Office which is staffed from the Bureaus of
Education and Science and Technology. This arrangement represents a continua-
tion of what has proved an effective implementation structure under



- 20 -
Cr. 1297-CHA. The PO is headed by a Project Coordinator who reports to the
Director of the Education Bureau in his capacity of Project Director. The
Project Coordinator is responsible for supervising the work of the PO's five
sections - Liaison and Coordination, Projects, Finance, Fellowships, Equipment
Procurement - which are staffed with technical experts and support person-
nel. For purposes of implementing the proposed project, additional personnel
including a Deputy Project Coordinator have been seconded to the PO from the
Science and Technology Bureau. Overall, the PO would continue the responsi-
bilities assigned to it under Cr. 1297-CHA: coordinating project work with
all central agencies involved; acting as chief liaison with IDA; maintaining
project accounts and submitting disbursement applications to IDA; monitoring
civil works design and construction; administering local and overseas training
programs; and supervising all aspects of the equipment procurement process.
The PO would also be responsible for preparing a project completion report for
IDA review. In equipment procurement, the PO itself would be responsible for
reviewing equipment lists and preparing technical specifications. The China
National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) would be primarily responsible
for bid invitation, evaluation, and award of contracts in consultation with
the PO.
3.21      The Project Commission (PC) established under Cr. 1297-CHA would
provide technical expertise and advice to the PO, review research center staff
development plans, and determine cequirements for consultant services. At the
institution level, the PO would be assisted by Project Implementation Units
(PIUs) which have been established by each research center and agrotechnical
extension station to carry out local planning, budgeting and monitoring func-
tions. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government
that the PO, PC, and PIUs would be maintained and adequately staffed with
qualified personnel during the life of the proposed project. Fellowship
nominations made by project institutions would be submitted to the PO for
approval in accordance with selection criteria satisfactory to IDA.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
3.22      Benefits and Justification.  The Government is committed to expand-
ing and diversifying agricultural production so as to improve the personal
consumption patterns of China's vast population. In view of limited opportu-
nities in China for expanding the total cropped area, the strategy for achiev-
ing growth is critically dependent on the potential for raising yields,
exploiting underutilized resources and improving management of existing
resources. Research services have an important role to play in developing
this potential; extension services are pivotal in channeling research results
and new technology to farmers. Project assistance to 15 research centers and
ten agrotechnical extension stations represents support for the Government's
long-range plan to strengthen the capacity of these services to contribute to
the goals of agricultural development.
3.23      No attempt has been made to calculate a rate of return for the
proposed project since it is difficult to quantify precisely the specific role
project institutions might play in the larger research effort and the contri-
bution of research generally - relative to investments in other areas such as
irrigation, extension, training - to increases in yields and production. At



- 21 -
the same time, retrospective analysis of major research programs in developing
countries indicates rates of return from investments in agricultural research
ranging from 35X to as high as 90%.
3.24      The project would provide training for about a third of the research
staff of 15 research centers, establish or renovate and newly equip about 60
research laboratories, and help develop model agrotechnical extension
stations. Principal benefits from this assistance would be increased quality
and volume of agricultural research, improved resource planning and manage-
ment, and lessons in extension planning that might be applied to other exten-
sion stations currently being established. Over the long term, these results
can be expected to help China reach its agricultural growth targets and
thereby raise incomes, nutritional levels and overall living standards.
Research would also contribute to improved environmental protection and
control by developing new technology for land use and soil and water conserva-
tion and rehabilitating arid lands and forest reserves.
3.25      Risks.  Achievement of anticipated benefits from the proposed
project depends largely on the existence of effective mechanisms to identify
research priorities appropriate to farmers' needs, to assign research projects
making best use of resources, and to promote farmers' acceptance of new tech-
nologies. In many developing countries, the inadequacy of these mechanisms
has hindered the success of major research projects. In China, research and
extension services have worked with notable effectiveness in the past to
facilitate a two-way flow of information between research institutions and
farmers. The project would support further strengthening of these linkages by
helping to develop a model agrotechnical extension station designed to consol-
idate previously separate extension units and to interact closely, assisted by
a new project-sponsored Extension Committee, with local research and education
services. Through the annual review of research programs supported under the
project, project research centers would also be encouraged to sharpen their
focus on practical problems, responsive to farmers' needs. While existing and
planned research/extension linkages in China represent an aid rather than an
impediment to project success, there is some risk that, given the complexity
of China's research system, the demand for research in certain areas may be
overstated leading to some unnecessary duplication of efforts. This risk of
overlapping efforts would be reduced somewhat as a result of the completed
Agricultural Research Study (para. 1.09) which seeks to clarify research pri-
orities and the capabilities of the various insti utes which make up the
research system.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following points:
(a) candidates for overseas fellowships would be selected in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to IDA and would receive language
training as needed at the language centers established under
Cr. 1297-CHA (paras. 3.06 and 3.21);



- 22 -
(b) by August 31 of each year, research programs and technical assis-
tance plans for the following year would be prepared for IDA review
(para. 3.07);
(c) the project accounts would be audited annually by the independent
auditors and would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of each financial year (para. 3.19); and
(d) the P0, PC, and PIUS would be maintained and adequately staffed with
qualified personnel curing the life of the proposed project
(para. 3.21).
4.02      Conditions of effectiveness are that:  (a) China's State Council
would approve the Credit Agreement; and (b) the Borrower would set up a
special account to facilitate disbursements on small contracts (para. 3.17).
4.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would con-
stitute a suitable basis for a credit of SDR 24.3 million (US$25 million
equivalent) on standard Association terms. The Borrower would be the People's
Republic of China.



ANNE 1
- 23 -                             Table 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Cost Stwmary
Cost
Y million           US$ million
Civil Works
Laboratory and office buildings                 22.71                 11.53
Farm buildings                                   0.95                  0.48
Farm development and improvement                 0.65                  0.33
Staff housing                                   21.85                 11.09
Subtotal                                     46.16                23.43
Equipment
Laboratory and scientific equipment             30.47                 15.47
Materials and supplies                           1.46                  0.74
Office equipment and furniture                   1.30                  0.66
Farm equipment                                   1.32                  0.67
Subtotal                                     34.55                 17.54
Library Development
Books and publications                           1.71                  0.87
Library equipment and supplies                   1.32                  0.67
Subtotal                                      3.03                  1.54
Training
Overseas                                         2.64                  1.34
Local                                            1.56                  0.79
Conferences, seminars and workshops              0.75                  0.38
Language training                                0.53                  0.27
Subtotal                                      5.48                  2.78
Technical Assistance
Program review                                   2.27                  1.15
Project preparation                              0.49                  0.25
Subtotal                                      2.76                  1.40
Base Cost                                    91.98                46.69
Physical contingency                               8.06                  4.09
Price contingency                                 16.17                  8.21
Total Project Cost                          116.21                58.99



ANNEX 1
-24 -                              Table
CHINA
SECOND ARICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
CUS$ million)
ProJect year
IS     2      3      4     5      Total
Civil Works
Laboratory & office buildings         3.46   4.61   3.46  0.00  0.00    11.53
Farm buildings                        0.19   0.24   0.05  0.00  0.00       0.48
Farm development & improvement        0.17   0.16   0.00  0.00  0.00       0.33
Staff housing                         3.33   5.54   2.22  0.00  0.00    11.09
Subtotal                           7.15  10.55   5.73  0.00  0.00    23.43
fiquipmn
Labrato   & scientific equipment    1.55   6.19   5.41  1.55  0.77    15.47
Materials & supplies                  0.07   0.15   C.19  0.22  0.11       0.74
Office equipment & furniture          0.07   0.19   0.23  0.17  0.00       0.66
Farm equipment                        0.20   0.20   0.27  0.00  0.00      0.67
Subtotal                           1.89   6.73   6.10  1.94  0.88    17.54
Librarx Developmet
Boolts & publcti  ns                  0.17   0.19   0.17  0.17  0.17       0.87
Library equipment & supplies          0.13   0.18   0.23  0.13  0.00       0.67
Subtotal                           0.30   0.37   0.40  0.30  0.17       1.54
Training
Overseas                              0.27   0.41   0.40  0.13  0.13       1.34
Local                                 0.16   0.15   0.24  0.16  0.08       0.79
Conferences, seminars & workshops    0.08   0.06   0.08  0.08  0.08        0.38
Language training                     0.08   0.08   0.08  0.03  0.00       0.27
Subtotal                           0.59   0.70   0.80  0.40  0.29      2.78
Technical Assistance
Program reviews                       0.23   0.23   0.23  0.23  0.23       1.15
Project preparation                   0.10   0.15   0.00  0.00  0.00       0.25
Subtotal   *                       0.33   0.38   0.23  0.23  0.23      1.40
Base Cost                         10.26  18.73  13.26  2.87  1.57    46.69
Physical contingency                    0.91   1.72   1.18  0.19  0.09       4.09
Price contingency                       0.45   2.64   3.32  1.05  0.75       8.21
Total Project Cost                11.62  23.09  17.76  4.11  2.41    58.99
Note: Differences may occur in totals due to rounding.



ANNE 1
Table 3
- 25 -
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1       2       3       4      5     Total
Local
Base cost                      6.64   10.10    6.04   0.55   0.25   23.58
Physical contingencies         0.64    0.98    0.57   0.03   0.01    2.23
Expected price increases       0.29    1.43    1.52   0.20   0.12    3.56
Subtotal                  7.57   12.51    8.13   0.78   0.38   29.37
Foreign
Base cost                      3.62    8.63    7.22   2.32   1.32   23.11
Physical contingencies         0.27    0.74    0.61   0.16   0.08    1.86
Expected price increases       0.16    1.21    1.80   0.85   0.63    4.65
Subtotal                  4.05   10.58    9.63   3.33   2.03   29.62
Totals
Base cost                     10.26   18.73   13.26   2.87   1.57   46.69
Physical contingencies         0.91    1.72    1.18   0.19   0.09    4.09
E,xpected price increases      0.45    2.64    3.32   1.05   0.75    8.21
Total Project Cost       11.62   23.09   17.76   4.11   2.41   58.99
Annual Escalation Rates (Z)      8.0      9.0     9.0    9.0    7.5
Multiplier                       0.040   0.129   0.230  0.341  0.451



ANE  I
- 26 -                           Table 4
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IDA agricultural
IDA fiscal year          Cumulative                      research disbursement
and semester           disbursements          Z              profile (Z)
1985
1st                          0               0                     0
2nd                         1.3               5                   3.3
1986
1st                         3.8              15                  12.8
2nd                         8.8              35                  27.4
1987
lst                        12.5             50                   43.2
2nd                        17.5              70                  57.3
1988
lst                        20.0             80                   69.2
2nd                        22.5              90                  78.9
1989
1st                        23.8             95                   86.6
2nd                        25.0             100                  92.5
1990
1st                          -               -                   96.9
2nd                          -                                  100.0
Proposed closing date: June 1990.



£300ll MSX.W.&VL UUMCt OtSOJCI
dolCA  I.t   s  tle r *r  Utydette  Sue4rlt  Setous                            Tta
lisl  is   Aquatl   Ocuali   Vet.,.  IU itom        SuIt..    Valet.      Lul   Puetf, toaroSla  ?t.94041  IXt..,.    oos,is    uwea eb    hydel.    coerf                 Total
Laboratories A .t1ler blildiqe   1,41.3.0        -       210.00     321.41    2.0  1,1*.40 o"1.So 10 e,469                -      220.00   2,02S.00    142.30      41,l6o  *12604                            13
fNt   bitldtie                       37.20      0           -                             0           -         - *    t                               400           -          - *                   -        47,0
tam 4,"o"1     t , Ispro,eves        W0.00       -       100.00        -         -       120.00     10.00       -         -         -          -          *          -          -         -                      30.00
ttall bw..ls                         330.00      -     1,110.00     242.20  I,000.00  4,202.60    240.40        -         -      34.0          -       74.00   1,30.00       33Z.00       -           -     1,0.0
Subtotal                        I.1,60               MOM  I 1L.tL  I..60               6     0 .4 10  1.46.1e                  2ILoe JA           1o 1.2L0JaZ    idL.0    EM                             3 .Lh!.J
Laboratery * oietitle .jup|mt    000.00  e41.00          200.00   I,00.00      "90.0  1, 02.0o  1,0*.00       O0.00  1,000.00    60.00   1,020.00  2,000   1,o00.00          110.00     00 oo0.00   1,
lztate|lds a supplies                o0.00    20.00       1o.0o      10r00      00       W0,0O o0.00 o         0.00       r         -         0.00      20.00      30.00                  *        3o0.O       140.0       t
0ffie a4Mposs I lorlttlu.             10.00    40.00      10.00      10.00      40.00     40.00     10.00    10.00        -       10.00      20.00  *0.00          3O.00      20.00       -         100.00      2soos0     -'
Pr.m squ eest                        100.00      -       100.00        -         -       1O.00      10.00     n2o         -         -                     -          -*                   -         310.00     644.00
Subtotal                       I.l00.00 sue 242.00              .cee.00   a e    sJ          l.llO oo JJjfee j0*              oo !     .~l 20 j44,   s.sO                 no        o  oo       910.o  ti.1
e *tee   o.10.00 o                         30.00 0    10.00      30.00      1o.00     00.00     20.o00    10.00       -       00.00    100.0    2so0.00    1o0.00         20.00       -           -        61t.00
Libru         f1_     . I            200       30.00      10.00      3.00      22.00    10.00       2.00      40.00       -      200.00      100.00       -         o0.00       *         *           -        ue4.00
Subtotal                          100.o00     .o       w.o        soe         e 200.00 170.0  20.00 floe.ee                              rn.o        za        moo          &ad        _                  JI.e-
Libgory equipmet & oufglo            16 W.00   130.00    362.00     11.00      31.00    107.00    2S.00       61.00       -      100.00      3.00       00.00   .    -          -         *           -        61,.00
tLerl                                 21.00    M."       100.00        -        20.40     90,10 1S.23                     *      I02.2      02.22       69.33       3.3       40.60       *         u             .1
CaaUrerue, $$Wr  4 w,rb"o             0.00      - -                 10.00      10.00     30.00     30.00     20.00                 -          -                              1- -s.3     -        2150.0       31S,o
tASga>4   ttele.1.                    17.24    40.60      22.00      10.20                 0.        24       40.60 t    *       22.2 s       0.40     1224              -          -                *        311.21
Subtotal                          843)   202.46       114.60     39JJ2      J3j60 l315.0         02.2%    141-.0              BILE       .I        mis&        &LU         ILIA                 .UAIa
rT.ra   t*.l.MM    110.00                                 110.00      94d .00   94.00    2l1.00      7.00    20.00       7.00        -        10.00      4.00                    -         -          I.0      to   OO3.00
precoot PlOMfOtlis                     ,                    .                    .          .         .         .         .         .          .          .          .          .         -                    320.00
Subtotal                          1140.0   220,00     I0.o    00 MAjo 9                o0 Mjj0    UL        oe m0    is00                 StO.0a      046-.00   j,03.00
Total Us. Coot                 31744.24   968.46   I.S464    2.921'11  3.914,40 0 9IL  4       .941.0 4  2ß622.10     A,9At1 .O J.M.*S  ,.0     ,      - O,   3J1O2_lj   1.,10    300.00  W.1"2.2    46."4.21
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~l   .



CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Area and Cost of Physical Facilities
Laboratories &
administrative          Farm                     Farm
buildings /a           buildings             development          Staff Housing
Sq .     Cost         Sq .      Cost        Ha        Cost         Sq .      Cost
(Us$'000)             (US$'000)              (US$'000)             (USI'O00)
Agricultural Crops Basic Research Center        6,150       1,662       1,110      228          7         50         1,000        220
Aquatic Products Research Center                                                                                                                        N
Grassland Research Center                       2,000         310                            256         100         7,000      1,750
Veterinary Research Center                        847         251                                                    1,050        263
Xinjiang Special Products Research Center    2,950            591                                                    4,000      1,000
Cotton, Wheat and Corn Research Center         12,000       2,227       1,830      208       200         150        20,472      4,504
Potato Research Center                          6,134         998                                         30         2*640        581
Arid and Semiarid Research Center               6,750       1,490
Forestry Resources Monitoring Center
Water Conservancy Information Center            1,000         220                                                    1,800        396
Tropical Crops Library and Information
Center                                        8,500       2,025
Meteorology Observation Center                  2,160         343         200       44                               3,300        726
Nanjing Hydraulic Research Center               8,290         882                                                    6,000      1,320
Northwest Hydrological Training Center          2,890         536                                                    1,500        330
10 Agrotechnical Extension Centers
/a  Includes areas to be remodeled as well as greenhouses.



CHINA
S CONO AlRICIIITIIRAL RRsRARaI PRA.!PrT
Training and Technical Assiatance
Overasea  Training                          Local Traintng
Non-                                Non-.              Language            rechnical
PhD        HSc       dog ree        Coat      mSc      _delgree       Cost   traintng   Cost   assistance         Coat
No.  I/   Noi T  No.   /T O         IIS$Osn   Non   M/ oo.i/l   H/M NusS-'nn o     H lm/m    mwnnn   No.  /mm   IiS4 nnn
Agricultt.ral Crops Basic Research Center               -      -   4      R   12   48        165.n0     -    -   in    1N0   51.n0         162    27.54       7    in    12n.nn
Aquatic Products Research Center                        -      -   4      a    4    a        128.0n     -    -   17    2n4   14.hR         24n    4n.Rn       2    to    120.0n
Crasuland Research Center                                I     3   4      R   in   6n        225.nn   in   2n   2n    24n  inn.0n    inn            1.nn      2    In    12n.nn
Yetertinry Research Center                               I     3   4      a    2   12        177.0n     -    -    -        -    -           in    In.2n       2      R     0.0nn
Xinjtang Special Products Research Center               -      -   -       -   10   32        12.0n     -    -   IS    IAn   10.6n           -      -         q      R      qh6.n
Cotton, Wheat, and Corn Research Center                 3      q   -      -    7   42        177.010   15   1n   20       in   9R.sn       12n    2A.4n       72  i1    12A.nn
Potato Research Center                                  -      -   -      -    6   54         54.no    -    -    A        Qf   Ifi.12       72    12.24       6      A      72.0n
Arid and Semiarid Research Center                       -      -   I       2    9   57        R7.nn    -    -    -         -    -          240    4n.0n       2    I    12n.nn
Foreutry Resources Monitoring Center                    -      -   -      -    -    -          -        -    -    -        -    -            -      -         2      h     72.nn
Water Conservancy Inforsatton Center                     -     -   1       2   13   78       105.0n   II   3n   Is        9n  10I5.1       II0    2i.in       -      -       -
Tropical Crops Library and Information Center           -      -   2       4    3   tR        7R.nn    -    -   14    I4%   11.15          IRn    In.Afn      2    In    12.nnn
Meteorology Observation Center                          -      -   -      -   is  ilOi       1n,nn   11   26   11        66   Rq.22        72    12.24       1      4      4R.nn
Water Conservancy Research Center                        -     -   -       -    -    -         -        -    -   40    172   63.24           -      -         -      -
Nanjing IIydraulic Research Center                      -      -   -      -    -    -          _        -    -   in    24n   4n.0-
ilorthveet Hydrological Training Center                  -     -   -       -    -    -         -        -    -    -        -    -            -      -         -      -       -
10 Agrotechnical Extension Centers                      -      -   -                                    -    -  71n    70n  127.5n           -      -                4     4k.Ann
Totals                                             5    I5  2n    4n   94  517   1,342.nn   S1  ION  qQn  2,751  7Qj.JI    1,S∞f   271.17              11 '    6  1,157.0n



30                             ~~~~~~~~~ANNME 2
Table 1
CHIDA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Institutions
Affiliated                                  Research
agency/                                   specialty
Research Centers                                   institution            Location             commodity
Agricultural Crops Basic Research Center       CAAS (MAAF)            Beijiag             Genetics,
breeding &
physiology
Aquatic Products Research Center              MAAF                    Beijing             Freshwater and
marine fisheries
Grassland Research Center                     CAAS (MAAF)             Hohhot,             Pasture
Nei Mongol         development and
management
Veterinary Research Center                     CAAS (MAAF)
Harbin,            Veterinary
Beilongjiang       research
and development
Xinjiang Special Products Research Center    Provincial Research   Shihezi,               Fruits,
Academy                Xinjiang            foodgrains
(processing,
storage &
transport
Cotton, Wheat, and Corn Reseach Center        CAAS (MAAF)             Anyang. Henan       Cotton, wheat and
corn
Potato Research Center                        Provincial Research   Enshi, Hubei          Potato
Academy
Arid and Semiarid Research Center             Northwest Agricul-    Wugong, Shaanxi    Dryland farming
tural College
Forestry Resources Monitoring Center          MF                      Beijing             Forestry resource
management
Water Conservancy Information Center          MWREP                   Beijing             Information
management
Tropical Crops Library and                    MAAF                    Danxian,            Information
Information Center                                                  Guangdong          management
Meteorology Observation Center                 04B                    Beijing             Meteorological
research
Water Conservancy Research Center             MWREP                   Beijing            Water conservancy
& hydroelectric
power
Nanjiag Hydraulic Research Center             MWREP                   Nanjing, Jiangsu   Water conservancy
& coastal devel-
opment
Northwest Hydrological Training Center        MWREP                   Wugong, Shaanxi    Hydrological
training



ANNEX 2
Table 2
- 31 -
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Institutions
Agrotechnical Extension
Stations by Location                   Associated Research Center
Wuqing, Tianjin               Tianjin Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
Weinan, Shaanxi               Northwestern Agricultural College; Shaanxi
Academy of Agricultural Sciences; Weinan Academy
of Agricultural Sciences.
Hengxian, Guangxi             Guangxi Academy of Agricultural Science.
Shanshan, Xinjiang            Xinjiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences; Turpan
Fruit Research Institute.
Zunyi, Guizhou                Guizhou Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
Xinmin, Liaoning              Liaoning Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
Huaxian, Henan                Cotton, Wheat and Corn Research Center, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
Jiangling, Hubei              Shashi Agricultural Research Institute; Hubei
Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
Shunchang, Fujian             Fujian Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
Beijing                       Beijing Agricultural University.



algNA
63001  AGIMEOLVA4  UIISAUO  PIOJACI
uaist   sm&ad Flaommi Staff at P10144t paa.reth e tura
kaleR    fait            MtArIC ol     nL                                   tl     *t                                    Cat tO    U,.at   Care  C
2222                 110 2Tr                         21                 I3Tr   3                                                      la 60 Tr                                             Is3T0
*  .                a 1' s .IT        IM1"1FWa'&Cr                                                                                 n              12f
]l h 12 ~~~~21   at                             I 10                     is     i         1       5    61                       *}I  %   so                          1       0        t                  3   10
sz^earer               318 2I32                  6   ItJ                  332   616                 l9t  23l                 14   49                   123  300                   16   40                 31   04
Iaqportmsagf              9696                      so   I                   63    93                 2 0 349                   -   sO                   411  420                   10  100                  10   16
Z.Sil           2            X       (la)     AL2           92I1                                                )          31 201 (t33) 12)  s                  (34)           iU  1A0      k an
s. ese^e            31131                     -   I                     I   4                    1  S                                               -313                       -  2
Aaoc. ruseer              17  21                     4 10                      3    14                 31 33                                              11    0                     1    1
Assist. weaesr1caw       3 116  141                  6   *0                  60    69                  94  104                                            1D    0                     1   I0
Iaeag.a  getan            34   SI                   31   11                  24    60                  31   43                                            17  320                        210
Otebr                                                                         24                       26   26                                            24  4A                      -    6
Total                "1   232  (30)  (26)   61  M1j  (168) j            312   361      9) (21)  Ij        I  (0 IO   lk)   36  4L  (210) O    1)   123  300 (144)  (1f)    3    40(3s0)  (31)  3M    MARCl)UM11
Y.     .I. -.1Il.                                                                           L ..- ..L_I                                                           T..r.... .
rt  lt  t  F_  *  xt -L  -1-   rL  n---                                                  pi   T             eP       11--w-n 1F
d*wen  -  -                20    20                    2      4                    -      -                    -      -                  20
uus44rcho                 363                          I1     45    11    4                                           46                  103   132                    31    60                  193 
,m st stlft                                             -     24                   23    21                     -    2 '6    2t                                         1    11                  1133 a
Total                                              31   6j                      68 300  (14)                    52 (4O3              113]h1   Jj                  ll  11(63 I                 3n3
boajirb staff h  las
easier researcher                                        -     -                    .      .                    -      2                    _      _                    _      1                    I
aeeizer.mher                                             1      2                   6 .                         2      3                   24    39                     3      63 
Laisto t raorchar                                       4    20                    t1      o                    3    31                    40    55                    10    I1                   62
,"ur"   iutar                                          10 to    23                 32 1 0                             t0                   2      27                   22    36                  102
Other                                                    -      -                    -     -                    -      _                    _      _                 * _
rTotl                 163                    (O)  15    45   j    (OA   ) a   3     45    (29) A        SA            (80) 203  (13 * 0     23     (I4)  (       3        1   00 (13      1393
*otal All C                I,,,
-P                   * IL
All staff Waatmi stors. research, e. subrt atat)                    2.1 I           .3 
Itelearci taf.                                                           i       Jai                lt           ii
r   pl amd total etaff  y 1390.
to - porcaestea  iaeraaa  la ttal staf  1164-90
* Tn * parcesati of rfaarrb setai  (v) to he tatmad ce"r the praj"ai



- 33-                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Research Center Programs
Agricultural Crops Basic Research Center
1.        The Center was established in 1957 as an affiliate of the Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS). Located in suburban Beijing, the
Center consists of 10 research departments staffed by 178 researchers
currently conducting about 30 projects. The Center offers short term
instruction to about 300 local technicians, enrolls between 10 and 20 post-
graduate students each year, and organizes national seminars and workshops.
The Center has contributed to the development of superior varieties of corn,
wheat and rice which have been widely adopted in North China.
2.        Current objectives of the Center are to undertake appropriate basic
research in support of the development of Chinat s crop breeding and cultural
practices research programs. The Center will also coordinate varietal yield
response and quality research programs for North China for wheat, corn, rice
and soybean. These objectives are to be achieved through the following
research programs: (a) anther and protoplast cuLture of rice and wheat,
mutant selection, and wide hybridization of wheat (Department of Cellular
Engineering), (b) polyploidy research on rice and wheat and research on the
mechanism of chromosome complement reorganization and haploid mutant screening
(Department of Polyploid Research), and (c) study of physiological indices of
high yielding cuLtivars, ideotypes of wheat in North China, crop performance
under stress, and quality of cereals (Department of Crop Physiology and Cereal
Chemistry).
Aquatic Products Research Center
3.        The Center was established in 1958 as an affiliate of the Chinese
Academy of Fishery Sciences. The Center is located in Beijing and has approx-
imately 12 ha of experimental fish ponds. Currently a municipal facility, the
Center is to be upgraded under the project to become one of China's four
regional freshwater aquaculture research centers. There are now 65 resear-
chers working in the chemistry, feed formulation, biology, and fish disease
laboratories. The Center first artificially propagated carp in the 1960s and
also introduced Tilapia and rainbow trout culture to North China.
4.        The Center will play a major roLe in supporting the Government's
plan to intensify fish cultivation, particularly in freshwater ponds. Factors
contributing to low yields include: (a) poor pond design and layout; (b)
inappropriate breeds of fish and stocking rates; (c) inefficient feed
management; and (d) inadequacy of processing, storage and transportation. The
Center's main objective, therefore, is to raise fish yields and production in
North China through identification and development of species well adapted to
the colder northern climate, improved feed formulation and processing, and



- 34 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 2
water quality control.  The current research program includes research on
parasite and disease resistance and hatchery techniques. A new breeding and
genetics laboratory is to assist in isolating genetically pure strains of
desirable species. The new physiology, biochemistry, and ecology laboratories
will support research on fish nutrition and environmental pollution.
Grassland Research Center
5.        The Grassland Research Center was established in 1964 in Hohhot to
provide research support for the extensive grassland areas of the north. The
Center is affiliated with the Chinese Academy of AgriculturaL Sciences and has
a staff of 112 researchers in seven departments. In addition to a 22 ha
experimental field just outside Hohhot, the Center also operates a 1500 ha
research station 80 km to the north of Hohhot. The Center publishes China's
national journal of grassland research, "Grasslands of China", and has
recently begun to train postgraduate students.
6.        One of the main problems facing ruminant livestock production in
North China is overgrazing and the attendant erosion. There is an urgent need
to assess the potential carrying capacity of the grassland areas under
different management systems. Research is also needed to identify superior
grasses and legumes which would provide higher dry matter yields. Since its
establishment, the Center has been engaged in the classification of China's
grassland resources and maintains a large germplasm collection of grosses.
Major objectives of the Center include the development and establishment of
technical guidelines for the control of grassland degeneration and the
classification of fodder crops and grasses according to nutrient composition
and digestibility. The Center's research program gives special attention to
work on grassland management systems, development of new grasses and pasture
improvement, and the problems associated with arid grassland.
Veterinary Research Center
7.        The Center was established in 1948 in Harbin, the capital of
Heilongjiang Province, and is affiliated with the Chinese Academy of Agricul-
tural Sciences. The research staff of 191 is currently assigned to 11 basic
and applied research units. The Center has been successfuL in the development
and production of numerous vaccines and diagnostic procedures for the control
of animal diseases, the most significant being the production of the world's
first vaccine for equine infectious anemia. The ongoing research program
includes research on pseudorabies, swine atrophic rhinitis, infectious
gastroenteritis, bovine leukemia, poultry disease diagnosis, and equine
infectious anemia. New laboratory animal facilities (primarily small animals)
will be constructed at the Center for development of genetically pure and
healthy laboratory animals (specific pathogen-free (SPF) animals) for
scientific research and production of vaccines and antisera. Basic research
in laboratory animal medicine, genetics and breeding is being undertaken in
support of the production of SPF laboratory animals.



- 35-                          ANNEX 3
Page 3
Xinjiang Special Products Research Center
8.        The Center is located in Shihezi City in the Xinjiang Uighur
Autonomous Region and is affiliated with the Xinjiang Academy of Agriculture
and Reclamation Science. Despite conditions well suited to the production of
horticultural crops, Xinjiang's commercial production of grapes, melons,
pears, and nuts is currently limited by inadequate and outdated storage,
processing, and packaging facilicies. In support of expanded commercial
production of these horticultural crops, the Center with its present research
staff of 14, will undertake production-orientated research as well as research
on post-harvest technology, transportation and marketing. The objectives for
the production-oriented research include the development of good qualicy high
yielding varieties which possess superior qualities for processing, storage,
and transportation. Research on post-harvest physiology, control of ripeness,
minimization of mechanical damage during packaging and transportation, and
processing and preservation technology (juice extraction and concentration,
canning, freezing and dehydration) are aLso part of the Center's research
program.
Cotton, Wheat, and Corn Research Center
9.        The Center was first estabLished in Beijing in 1957, as part of the
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences. With a research staff of 123, the
Center is presently located in Anyang, Henan Province, in the heart of China's
major cotton producing region. The Center publishes two journals and has
collected and classified over 1800 cotton germplasm materials. The Center has
yarn spinning and testing and cottonseed pressing equipment and over 230 ha of
irrigated farmland.
10.       The Center has made important contributions to the development of
short maturation (112 to 114 days) and good fiber quality varieties of cotton
which are now widely planted in China. Wheat breeders have also been success-
ful in developing earlinesss in wheat coupled with high yields. Further yield
increases could be obtained through improved cultural practices and pest
management. Productivity per unit area could be further increased by double
cropping cotton with winter wheat or corn. Researchers at the Center have
been successful in developing forecasting systems for cotton diseases and
insect pests and are actively involved in a regional cooperative research
program for control of Fusarium and Verticilium wilts. Major research
objectives include widening the genetic base, especially for wheat and corn,
increasing yields and resistance to diseases and pests, and improving cropping
systems. The research programs for cotton will concentrate on fertilization,
water use, pesticide resistance and residue, fiber strength and seed quality
and treatment. For wheat and corn, research efforts would support the
development of early maturing varieties well adapted to alkaline soil and
dryland farming.



- 36-                          ANNEX 3
Page 4
Potato Research Center
11.       This province-run research Center was established in 1953 in Enshi
County, Hubei Province. The staff of 16 researchers provides research support
to the mountainous regions of Hunan, Hubei, Sichuan, Guizhou, and Yunnan,
where potato is an important crop. rn the late 1960s, the Center introduced
and tested a late blight resistant cultivar 'Mira' (from East Germany), which
was subsequently released for planting in the region.
12.       The current research program includes research on tissue culture to
produce virus-free potato planting material, and cropping systems (90Z of
potato production is intercropped with corn). Production of potato is
currently affected by a number of important potato diseases (spindle tuber and
leaf roll viruses, scab and late blight) and seed tuber degeneration due to
viral infections. In view of the distance to market and transportation
difficulties, there is a need to develop appropriate storage and processing
technologies. Problem oriented research in support of the objectives of
improved disease and pest resistance, high yields and better storage and
processing technology would be undertaker by the Center's five research
departments, viz. germplasm, breeding, cultivation and storage, crop
protection, and processing departments. Breeding objectives include the
development of high starch content, long dormancy, and medium maturing
varieties. The germplasm collection will be expanded to include wild species.
Arid and Semiarid Research Center
13.       This recently-established Center is the tenth research center
affiliated with the Northwest College of Agriculture. The Northwest College
of Agriculture was established in 1974 in Wugong, Shaanxi Province, and has a
large research and teaching staff. Although arid (less than 300 mm of rain
each year) and semiarid (300 to 600 mm rain each year) regions represent about
50% of China's land surface, research on arid and semiarid agriculture has
been somewhat neglected in the past. Operating with a present research staff
of 35, the Center's main objectives are to undertake research in support of
increasing crop and livestock production in Shaanxi, Gansu, Ningxia, Qinghai,
and Shanxi. Initial research efforts will concentrate on the development of
crop varieties and livestock tolerant to arid and semiarid areas; introduction
of new cultural practices and cropping systems; exploration and utilization of
groundwater resources; and pest control. New laboratories will be set up for
research on dryland farming, soil physics, animals nutrition, processing and
storage, and water resources.
Forestry Resources Monitoring Center
14.       The Center, which is located in Beijing, is under the Ministry of
Forestry. The Center is specifically concerned with the establishment of a
national forestry resource survey and mapping capability in providing resource
data required for development planning. Up-to-date information is needed
about China's forestry resource endowment in order to meet the needs of
national, regional and project planning. The staff of 181 at the Center would
undertake surveys assisted by aerial photography, satellite imagery and grouna
surveys, with the objective of rationalizing the process of base-mapping,
resource survey, and resource inventory and evaluation.



- 37 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 5
Water Conservancy Information Center
15.       Established in Beijing in 1971 as an information clearing house
serving the MWREP, the Information Center has amassed substantial holdings-
about 460,000 scientific and technical documents, books and journals-in the
field of water conservancy. Yet access to this infc: ation and acquisition of
additional data both from within China and abroad -3 limited by lack of
modern facilities for information retrieval/communLcation. To improve its
service efficiency thereby maximizing the contribution of water conservancy
research to agricultural growth, the Center aims to establish a computerized
information retrieval/communication system linking Beijing with major river
basin agencies, regional water conservancy authorities, relevant universities
and institutes, and international data sources. A core staff of 15 senior
researchers, to be augmented over the life of the project to 45, would be
responsible for operation of this new network.
Tropical Crops Library and Information Center
16.       The resources of two previously existing units under the South China
Tropical Crops Research Institute, an affiliate of the MAAF's State Farms
Bureau, have been combined to fcrm a new Tropical Crops Library and
Information Center. The Research Institute itself was established in 1953 and
serves the southern portions of Guangdong, Yunnan, Fujian and Guangxi
Provinces. Over 500,000 ha of land in this region are planted to rubber,
coconuts, sisal, pepper, cashew and other tropical crops. Operating with a
Dresent core staff of 35, the Center has assumed responsibility for publishing
and translating (into Thai, Malaysian, and Indonesian) five biannual
journals. In order to provide better information on tropical crops production
to scientists in .he above provinces, the Center proposes to expand its
holdings of books and journals and to modernize its statistical analysis
facilities.
Meteorology Observation Center
17.       The Center is located in Beijing as an affiliate of the Academy of
Meteorological Sciences. The Academy has a staff of 430 scientists,
engineers, and technicians working in four departments. It offers short term
instruction to visiting technicians, enrolls about 10 graduate students
yearly, and provides scientific and technical support to regional meteorolo-
gical institutions. The Observation Center is starting operations with a
research staff of 5 to be expanded to 46 by 1990. Its major objectives are to
improve the weather surveillance!prediction system for the North China Plain,
to broaden the use of agrometeorological data in production planning for
agriculture, to conduct weather modification experiments, and to assist in
establishing a local network of agrometeorological stations. Such improve-
ments in weather surveillance and prediction capabilities are expected to
bring tangible benefits to the individual farmer - e.g., to give sufficient
warning in the case of severe weather either to harvest crops early or take
protective measures to reduce loss.



- 38 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 6
Water Conservancy Research Centers
18.       Three of the MWREP's 33 national research affiliates have been
included in the proposed project:
(a) Water Conservancy Research Institute (Beijing). Established in
1958, the Institute consists of 11 research departments, a computer
center, an instrument factory, and a total staff of 725. Six
departments with a staff of 106 researchers have been selected for a
special program of strengthening under the proposed project. Major
research concerns of these departments include engineering design
and water quality control for irrigation and drainage systems; water
management; river and ^anal sedimentation problems; maintenance
aspects of water conservancy and hydroelectric projects; soil
mechanics; and new applications of hydromachinery for farm use.
(b) Nanjing Hydraulic Research Center. Operating with a present
research staff of 35, to be expanded to 60 by 1990, the Nanjing
Center is focussing its research efforts on measures to control
coastal erosion, testing and development of improved irrigation and
flood control structures, and surveys of groundwater levels.
(c) The Northwest Hydrological Training Center is part of the complex at
the Northwest College of Agriculture in Wugong, Shaanxi Province
(see para. 13 above). Its research staff of 192 conduct 3 to 6
month training programs for about 200 technicians yearly. The
Center's training program concentrates on the assessment of water
resources and irrigation techniques.
Agrotechnical Extension Stations
19.       The main functions of the agrotechnical extension stations are (a)
to carry out local verification/demonstration trials of new or improved
production packages; (b) to disseminate new and/or improved technologies from
the research centers to farmers and production units; (c) to train lead
farmers; and (d) to feed back production constraints to the research
centers. Most specialized services (fertilizer, pLant protection, seeds,
etc.) are currently provided by a number of independent agencies receiving
direction from various bureaus of the provincial and local governments. The
main objective of the new county-level stations covered under the project is
to consolidate, where appropriate, the specialized services into a single
integrated program of demonstration and field trials, extension, and
in-service training for extension personnel. Each station will have at least
5 to 10 agriculturalists to conduct and supervise field experiments and
demonstration trials, analysis and diagnostic services (e.g., soil and plant
analysis, pathogen isolation and identification), extension and training. As
a first step, the above extension and training services in 10 counties are
being consolidated under the agrotechnical extension stations. These 10
Locations (see Annex 2, Table 2) have been chosen for their proximity to and
existing linkages with agricultural universities and research centers and will
serve as pilot stations. It is anticipated that these pilot stations will
ultimately serve as models for the development of similar stations in the
2,300 counties in China.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Procedures for Capital Construction
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Discussions were held in Beijing with the Project Unit of the Second
Agricultural Research Project to identify local procedures for design and
construction of physical facilities. It should be pointed out that some of
the information obtained varies slightly from similar information received on
previous occasions from other sources.
II. PROJECT COMHENCHIENT
2.01      A Project Proposal (PP) is normally prepared by the Using Agency
describing the project objectives and includes a justification of the proposed
facility, preliminary cost estimate, etc. This PP is submittedu with a request
for monies to be included in the budget to a higher level of authority within
the Ministry or at the Provincial level. Projects larger than 10 million yuan
must also have the approval of the State Planning Commission.  This Commission
has the authority to modify the contents or scope of the request submitted.
2.02      Once the PP is approved, the Project Unit makes application to the
Bureau of City Planning and Construction for permission to use a particular
parcel of land upon which the project is to be built. As soon as permission
to use the land has been obtained, the Project Unit is able to go to the
Survey and Design Academy or Institute to have the land surveyed and to have
the soil conditions tested to determine site suitability. This site survey
and soil analysis normally costs about .5% to 1% of the overall construction
cost.
III. DESIGN OF FACILITIES
3.01      The same Institute or Academy which performs the site and soil
examination normally will carry out preliminary building design for the
Project Unit. About one year ago design services were done without charge.
Now, however, there is a charge for design of facilities reported to be about
1.5% of the cost of construction. This fee not only covers preliminary
design, but also the cost of preparing final technical documents, detailed
drawings, etc., necessary to construct the project.
3.02      Preliminary design in China is more advainced than is normally
considered necessary in the United States at this point in project develop-
ment. In China, design includes plans, details, sections through the
building, exterior views, site development studies, quantities of materials,
and an estimate of both cost and the amount of time required to construct the
facility. The preliminary designs are not begun until funds have been allo-
cated for the project.



40 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.03      As soon as preliminary plans have been complet'>, they must be
submitted to the Bureau of City Planning, the Fire Department and the
Environmental Protection Agency for approval prior to proceeding with
subsequent steps leading to construction of the project. Preliminary designs
must also receive approval of the Civil Works Division of the Planning Bureau
in the Ministry prior to fina'iization of plans. After this approval is
obtained, the Project Unit will either advise the Academy or Institution of
such approval or ask them t, make any required changes resulting from the
review process.
3.04      The process of competitive bidding for construction contracts is not
used in China. As soon as approval has been obtained from the three agencies
mentioned in para. 3.03 above, and the Institute or Academy has begun to
finalize the construction documents, the Project Unit contacts a Construction
Company to make arrangements for the project to be built. The Project Unit is
free to select any Construction Company it wishes. Availability of
Construction Companies plays a large part in determining which company will
finally be chosen to sign a contract for construction.
3.05      With the building boom in China, especially in Beijing, selecting a
Construction Company can be difficult. As soon as final construction docu-
ments have been completed, a contract is signed between the Project Unit and
the Construction Company.
IV. CONSTRUCTION
4.01      The principal type of construction contract used in China is the
Fixed Price type. Principal building materials and labor costs are fixed by
the Government and variances occur mainly as a result of differences in
regional construction practices and incentives paid to workers within the
differe.t- regions.
4.02      At the time the Project Unit signs a contract for construction, the
Construction Company agrees to complete the works within a specified time for
a fixed sum of money. The company is penalized for time overruns and must
also absorb any extra cost involved in removal/replacement of defective
materials or workmanship during the construction period. The Construction
Company is compensated by the Government for price changes in labor andlpr -
materials during construction.  In the event construction is completed aheajt '
of schedule, tie Construction Company is awarded a bonus. The amount of this
bonus is specified in the contract.
4.03      Qualitative technical supervision of the project is carried out
during the construction period by the Construction Bank, the Construction
Company and the Project Unit. In case of disagreement during supervision,
final decision is made by the Cr struction Bank. There is no charge for
supervision by the above group,_
1/   During appraisal, the Mission was told that charges for preparation of
designs and supervision amounted to about 3% of the total construction
cost.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
4.04      The Construction Bank makes an advance to the CA struction Company
amounting to 25% of the total contract amount. These funds are supposed to be
used for mobilization and for the Construction Company to purchase materials
for the project. While the work is in progress, periodic payments are made to
the Construction Company in proportion to the amount of the work completed.
The advance is not amortized over the life of the construction contract, but
rather is deducted from payments made during the last few months of
construction. This item is covered in the General Regulations of the
Government regarding payments.
4.05      Materials and labor used in construction projects are guaranteed for
a period of one year from the date of completion. Within one month of comple-
tion, the Construction Company prepares a report stating the building has been
completed in accordance with the technical documents and furnishes a set of
as-built drawings to the Project Unit. As soon as this report is received,
final inspection is scheduled with the following participants.
(a) Representative from the Ministry
(b) The Project Unit
(c) The Construction Bank
{d) The Construction Company
'e) The Design Institute/Academy
(f)  Environmental Protection Agency
(g) The Fire Department
4.06      Faults which may appear during the one year period of guarantee must
be corrected by the Construction Company at no additional cost.  It is the
responsibility of the Project Unit to report any discrepancies which may occur
as the result of faulty materials or workmanship during this period directly
to the Construction Company.
_ _



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector
A.1   FAO, Strengthening Agricultural Education in China, Report
No. CPR/80/003, June 1980.
A.2   IBRD, China:  Socialist Economic Development, Main Report and
Annex C on Agricultural Development, Report No. 3391-CHUA June 1,
1981.
A.3   IBRD, China:  Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments, Report
No. 4072-CHA, March 31, 1983.
A.4   MAAF, Agricultural Research Study Report, March 1984.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1  MAAF, China:  Second Agricultural Education and Research Project -
Feasibility Report of Agricultural Research Project (Project Office,
Education Departments, June 1983).
B.2   Chen, C. L., Appraisal of Grassland Research Center, Consultant's
Report to the World Bank, November 1983.
3.3   Chen, C. L., Appraisal of Harbin Veterinary Research Center,
Consultant's Report to the World Bank, November 1983.
B.4   Cheng, H.H., Research Management and Organization, and Linkages with
Extension and Education, Consultant's Report to the World Bank, June
1983.
B.5   Etheredge, R. W., Jr., China:  Agricultural Research II Project;
Consultant's Report on Civil Works and Project Costing, December 5,
1983.
B.6   Johnson, M. C., Appraisal of the Aquatic Products Research Center,
Consultant's Report to the World Bank, September 1983.
3.7   Liang, G. H., Appraisal of the Crops Research Centers, Consultant's
Report to the World Bank, December 1983.
B.8   Luh, B. S., Appraisal of the Xinjiang Special Products Research
Center and the Potato Research Center; Consultant's Report to the
World Bank, December 1983.



- 43                 ~             ANNEX 5
Page 2
B.9   Piazza, A., Preappraisal Analysis of Project Costs  Consultant's
Report to the World Bank, July 31, 1973.
B.10  Tai, W., Preappraisal Analysis of the Crops Research Centers,
Consultant's Report to the World Bank, June 1983.



QINA
SECONDi h    Ul.luRAL fsEMAROI PRtUECT
Organizationil SLructtre or Uie Kinistry of Agricalttre,
Animal Ituibandry and Fldierics
Minister
Deputy
Knilster
I-Agrotediltical Extension   I-Acadaxy of Agriculttxral            I                                            !                                             I
I General Station              I      Seiences                     I   I Agriculturtil Medinnlzationl           I   I Animal lihsbandry aid        I          I
I                             I                                               DI--I  Breau            I         I--I Veteritury Medicine Dtireaul             I   I  Office or Policy Study
I-Planit Protection           I-Agricltatral Engineering                                              I         I I                                I I  I     I   I                 -            I
I General Station              I Reweardc  atd DuaL'6                                                           I
I                              I      Institute                    I_I Land  .irn6gerent Bureau       I         I                                             I
1-National Seed                I                                   I   I                              I         I                                             I
I Corporationi                 I-Agricttiltiral Exhibition         I                                            I   _
I      Hall                         I                                             I_I Aqt.tic Products Dtreau
I-Animal and Plant             I                                   I   I Fitiierles Adninlstration   II   I                                        I          I
I Qinranitie Instituite        I-Agricultunl Film Studio           1--1        and Ports Dureaui                I                  I                          [_I    Edenation Btreau
I                             I                                            _    _   _  _   _    _   _II  I                                      I                    _   _   _    _   _    _   _ I
I-Animnl lthbandry and         I-Foreign Technical                                                                        AqtqiUc Products                    I
I Veterinury Medledne         I Engineering Cavut'W                I                                            I         Researdc  Centvr                    I
General StaUon                I                                   I   I Ccnmte aand Brigde           I         I                                             I   I   Scieme and Technolog
I                              I-Agriculttral Sdcocl               I--I Enterprise Bureau             I         I                                             IBI Bureau
I-Collective ItinMgegent       I or Broadcasting                   1   1                              I         I                                             I   I
I      orrice                  I
I                             I-Cadre Sciool of Rural              I                          _                 Li    Stte Fa4rmJs Breu/                      I
I-Corporation or Animal       lEconanic Managcnent                 I_I Veteran Cadre Bureau           I             I Agriculture, Industry and I             1 _J      Planning Bureau
I lilstbandry Industrie3       I                                   I   I                              1             I     Trade Corporaton         I          I                                  I
I and Cammerce                 I-Agrictlttral Publl1ing           I                                                I                              I
I                             I       llouse                       I_I                                                                                              _
I-State Farm  Import and       I                                   I._.I Agroncmy DLreau                            I                                         II  _I     Firance Bureau
I Export Ser9ice               I-Gnses Researdc  Institute         I   I                              I                 South Chilna Troploal                 I   I
I                                                                                        Crops Research Center                 I
I-hliutio Products Supply   I-Enirolnental Protection                                                                                                        I
I and Sales Corporation        I      Conter                       I_| Atdinistration Btreau          I                                                       I_.I    Mteriis3 Bureau
I             I                                  ~~~~~~~~~I  I                       I________                                               I   I                              l_________
I-Marine Fieieries             I-Attimal Qtinrantin                II
I      CanpoC                 I Researdc  Instituite
I                              I                                   I_1 Personnel Bureau               I                                                       1_1    Inrrmatton Bureau
I-Aktm1 ulttre  cUnnIn        I-Agricultvral HedianizatioU         I   I                              I                                                            l_I
I                               Researdc  Institute
I-Carmnre and Brigade                                              I
Enterprises Newaapapr                                            1_I Foreign Affairs Bureau         I
I   _    _    _ _    _    _     I



- 45                       Figure 2
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization for Project Implementation
Project Panel               : I  Ministry of Agriculture,
i  'Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
- Ministry of Agriculturie?            
Animal Husbandry &
Fisheries
- Ministry of Forestry
- Ministry of Water Resources.
and Electric Power                    Bureaus of
- Central Meteorological            Science and Technology
Bureau                                & Education       f
Project Comission
Project Office                                    .
- Representatives of Project
- Liaison and Coordinatior                              Institutions
Section                                                       _
- Projects Section
- Finance Section
- Fellowship Section
- Equipment Procure-
ment Section
Research Center
Project Implementation Units
Research Centers (15)
Agrotechnical Extension
Stations (10)
1                                  I
- Administrative Section
- Engineering and Construc-
tion Section
- Equipment, Materials 6
Supplies Section
- Research and Training Sectior



CIITNA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCII PROJECT
Project Implementation Schtedule
Calendar Year                       19845| 19B85               1986       I  1987          1988          1989          1990
Fiscal Year                     FY84      FY85_     _   FY86          FY87      I  FY88           FY89      j FY90        FY91
Quarter                          1  2  3 14  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4 1  12  3 '4 l    2  3 14  1  2 13 i4  1 12  3 14
1.  Civil Work.
(a) design
(b) construction                                            .   -    -
2.  Equipment/Supplies/
Furniture.                                     I.                         
(a) project commission
(b) specifications
(c) preparation of                                          I
bid documents
(d) invitation tJ bid
(e) bid evaluation &                   |
award 
(f) manufacture &j 
delivery                            I |
3. Training
(a) language training                  i t                      -                    - _ = 1 . _
(b) overseas training                  |                 - -          ---  -            - - - -f
(c) local training                                 -----~-------
(d) conferences/seminars/                                        T              I  L               - -
workslhops                                            - I    - r   --  -    _
4.  Techinical assistance
(a) program review                        I                                          -
(b) project preparation                        -  -  -  -  -  -  _         - | ,            -  -  ____
Eflective                                                      Completion  Closing
date                                                            date        date



70"                                               ,,f                                           ,94"                                            liCR
4to ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-
S O V I E T                U N I O N
/* ULAANBAATAR
t                                              ,t0                            M  O   N   G   0   L  I  A
j                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shd,mh-
I                                                                rA"'"'IN. -
+                                                                                                               -_ v'                                       "---it
tFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                  NNEI    MOS GGOL
,--    Irt                                                                                       .,                  -
A   RESEARCH CENTERS:                             1                                         .                                                        \        ' - -NGXIA
Agricultural Crops Basic Research Crnmer ,                   rl                                                                                   \  1
2   Aitlic P,rsiucis Rzes-..,cI C   i
3-  Gtand Rach Critter                                                              /                        OtNGHAI
V4  rny Ree.chl C-rIrr                          I                                                                                                -
S   Kintsnq Sprit P.,eFldu cit h.erw rlr Cr,.i.                                    r                                                                     G CA N SLU-I
6.  Qiniar. Wheat, CDan Rese'rch C-p-                                                                                                                      ANS
7-  PHtat Resch Cnter                                                                                                                            _AAN
A8 d and Sm  aid Reserpc Cterlt_
9   Cent  to, Mo, .rrn  F-irrstv Reirci--                                              .It                                                                                    As          J
10   Waer Conservancy Intrin.ut,sr Cn ter -                                                                                                                                      Is
It   TrPiclC.rIns L,C--brory and  int,-mn . ton Center             ...               _ l                                                                     '          9,_
12   Meteomtroqv Obse-rlaton Crater                                                                           -                              _
13   Wate Conservancv Ri-er.ch Center                                    _    _                                                &
14.  Nting Hydrulic Resmrch Cente                    I 
15   Northvrst Hydroloqical Tra-ninq Center                      XIZANG 
SICHUAN N
CHINA                                                            \r-kn?
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                                                                             ,   fs '5    4
f~~~~~~~~~~4 _                       GVI2 tSO0 U
A       RESEARCH CENTERS                                                                                  \      V
AGR()TTFrCHNICAI EXTFNSIttN  STATION,
PROVINCIAL ROUJNt)AE∂                                                                    YUNNAN                                     
--  -     IFINTI 1INATIONAL Hf)UNDAItIE-
-N                                                   SUA-\  _ 
b S < X ~~~HANOIl
!cs_ LTh.t~ 'ii, tier,. vrr,.re dr ,.n T- turin lu .re tr.r,or_r4  v. tSr. c vrrh.. tif    or                     i n XDEMOCRATICr     i
. farst f te ivict.ft .rn       iC.wiof   rrreflfrm.f hREPUBLIC  '.,VIET  NAM
SVIENTIAN%E,-_.s      1I
, ~ ~ ~ ~ l a                                                                                :'.                                           Ur'                 '       ^



IBR D 18272R
J N  I   O N   
W-_~~~ /-   {                    /                  HEIL OrtCSIA NCX~~J I   I 
_  X                    ~~~~~~~~X    J I  IN
v-~~ r rZ. t E t IAONIV;G JDEMOCRATIC
,<_ ~ ~      ~     ~      C io1.;., S A_     _w                       PEOoPLE'S REEPUBLIC 
N~~~~~~~ 1   FON                     B , EIJING                              OF KOREA
r  <,.  HliUIIIIIG               ~~PYONGYANG _ 
-1~~                            )3                                              19WIes     SEOUL                        * TOKYO
-  ~    r          J      IIF                                                           REPUBL IC
>                                 Ni  8 } F y-I                                      OF KOREA
-, NINGXrIA :/S HAhVX I                                                                           f 
G ANVS U                                           r  
. H.4 AN xI ;
| ~  ~    ~     i --                        'A              C ,¢ hJ      
S       e        ~~~~SHANGHAI
k ) < ' _ ~~~~~A N 11 Ul  I  f~
k~~~~~~ ~     ~~~~~~ HUs       F J  I                                                                   S
Zunyo                           JIwA N GX I j Shuncheng
t   v  ~    03   z n     HUN J' A NUI  N
~7, G UIZHO U       5       ) ,I, 
r                        SAWA
GUAGX                   G UANGDONG
f \-cJ   (3      (           |pP FR~~11,?- ONG KONG.UIC.
^,   S       laAcAUPoRT                        ~~~~~~~~~KILOMfETERS                                    I ∞∞ 4.  0   ,0 Z0
_ ~~~~~~~~~~MILES                                                    2O        2 0400            660
- EOPIE'S
XCRATIC }idl....d
-JBLIC s ,VIET NAM
JULY 1984



