Doctmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OM1CIAL USE ONLY
RepRt No. 12228
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1516-CHA)
AUGUST 6, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12228
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
Appraisal      $1.00 = Y 1.9;
1984/85        $1.00 = Y 2.80
1986           $1.00 = Y 3.45
1987-89        $1.00 = Y 3.72
1990           $1.00 = Y 4.72
1991           $1.00 = Y 5.22
1992           $1.00 = Y 5.46
Y1.00 = $0.18
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)    = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    = 2.47 acres
= 15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)  = 2.2 pounds
I ton          =  1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIAT'rl)NS AND ACRONYMS
ATES       -      Agrotechnical Extension Station
CAAS       -      Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CAS        -      Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAST       -      Chinese Association of Science and Technology
CMB        -      Central Meteorological Bureau
CNTIC      -      China National Technical Import Corporation
FAO         -     Food & Agriculture Organization
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
LIB         -     Limited International Bidding
MF         -      Ministry of Forestry
MOA        -      Ministry of Agriculture
MWREP    -        Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PC          -     Project Commission
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
PO          -     Project Office
SAR        -      Staff Appraisal Report
SPF         -     Specific Pathogen Free
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



]OX OfCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offls of DIr.otor-Genotal
Operations Evaluation
August 6, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIOENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on China
Seaond Aaricultural Research Project (Credit 151 6-CHA)
Attached isthe Project Completion Report on China: Second Agricultural Research
Project (Credit 151 6-CHA) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part 11 of
the report was contributed by the Borrower.
Although it is too early to predict the eventual impact of this institution building
project, most components were successfully implemented. The project outcome is rated as
satisfactory and the benefits are likely to be sustainable. Some costly mistakes made in
procurement could have been avoided with more intensive implementation assistance by the
Bank; supervision missions were made only annually. Current problems are the poor
repatriation rate of overseas trainees, and difficulties in maintaining and operating some of the
more sophisticated laboratory equipment. A follow-on Agricultural Support Services Project
was approved in February 1993.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate account of the project.
However, the report should have elaborated more on how the pilot assistance to the country
agrotechnical center model was integrated with the emerging Agricultural Service Companies
at the township level and the technicians and "key households at the village level.
The project may be audited as part of an OED study on the Bank's research and
extension portfolio.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restrcted distibution and may be used by recipients only In tve perfamance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Basr authoriation.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CRIT 1516-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface             ..    .......................................                               i
EvaluationSummay  .          ........................................                         i
PARTI:   PROJECTREVIEW  FROM  BANK'SPERSPECTIVE  ....                            ........      1
1.  ProjectI enity ..................................                              1
2.   Background  ............              ........................                1
3.  Project Objectives and Description ......................                      3
4.  Project Design and Organization  .......................                       3
5.  Project Implementation  .............................                          5
6.  Project Results  ...........             .......................               6
7.  Project Sustainability  ..............................                         8
8.   IDA Performance  ................................                             9
9.  Borrower Perfornance  .............................                            9
10. ProjectRelationships  ..............................                          10
11. Consulting Services  ...............................    10
12. Compliance with Covenants ..........................    10
13. Project Documentation and Data  .......................    10
14. Lessons Learned  ..........              .......................    10
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                          ....   12
iS. Introduction-Situation of the Project .......            .............    12
16. Preparatory Work of the Project .........              ..............    12
17. Organization and Administration of the Project .....            .........    12
18. Evaluation of Borrower's Performance  .......             ............    13
19. Training  ....................................                                14
20. Technical Assistance and Training  ........            ..............    14
21. Disbursement ...................................    15
22. Preliminary Project Benefits and Lessons Learned  ....           ........    15
23. Major Lessons Learned ..............               ...............            18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORM ATION ..........................   20
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits                                   20
2. Project Timetable             . . .20
3. Credit Disbursements            . . .21
4.  Project TmplFmentation-Key Indicators    .     .     .22
5. Project Cost and Financing          . . .23
A. Project Costs (including Contingencies)    .  .23
B. Project Financing    ..............     ................   23
6. Project Results             . . .24
7. Status of Covenants            . . .25
8. Mission Data and Staff Inputs        . . .26
A. Mission Data   ..26
B. StaffInputs   ..26
ANNEXES
1. List of Agricultural Research Institutes and Agrotechnical
Extension Stations ..........      ......................   27
2. Rate of Return Analysis Based on Development of a New Cotton
Variety .......................................   28
3.  List of Sophisticated Equipment Supplied ..................   30
MAP IBRD 25053



. i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICUL                       RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1516-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Agricultural Research
Project in China for which Credit 1516-CHA in the amount of SDR 24.3 million, equivalent to
$25.0 million, was approved in March 1984. The credit was closed 2 years behind schedule on
June 30, 1992, following extensions granted in June 1990 and May 1991. The total credit
amount of SDR 24.3 million, equivalentto $29.0 million due to the depreciation of the US dollar
aainst the SDR, was fully disbursed by the extended closing date.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and m of the PCR were prepared
by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme mission 1/ that visited China during
October 5-17, 1992. Part H was prepared by the Borrower.
The PCR (Parts I and  o) is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, project files held in Washington contaning
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA memoranda, documenation
provided by the implementing agency (Project Proformas, statements of expenditure and
achievements), field visits to four research institutes and two Agro-reclinical Extension Stations,
and meetings with project and IDA staff in Beijing.
1/ C.J. Bevan, Agronomist and Mission Leader, and D.C.M. Corbett, Research Specialis Consultant.



- Iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1516aCHIA)
FVALUATION S
Project Objectives
1.           In line with the Government's aim  of ensuring continued agricultural
productivity, the main objective of the project was to support further agricultur?! uaensification
through improved research and extension services. The project therefore provided funds to
expand and improve 15 research centers tiroughout the country, and to support a pilot program
to strengthen the exension work of 10 county-level agrotechnical extension stations (ATES).
Centers were selected to reflect Government priorities for research (fbod and cash crops,
livestock, aquatic products, forestry, hydrology and meteorology); and on the basis of their
potential as demonstrated by past achievements, location, importance of research programs and
staff competence.
2.           The main activities to be supported were: (a) construction and renovation of
research laboratories, offices, on-farm improvement and staff housing; (b) provision of scientific
and farm equipment, materials and supplies and computers for the 15 research centers;
(c) provision of library facilities, books and journs; (d) local training and overseas fellowships;
(e) technical assistance to assist in review of research center programs and program formulation
for the extension centers. The latter entailed assistance to develop an agrotechnical extension
station model designed to conduct local field trials, train lead farmers and feed trial results back
to researchers.
Implementation Experience
3.           With the exception of overseas technical assistance consultancies, all other key
performance indicator targets were met or exceeded. Implementation of the civi works progeam
(40 percent of total project cost) proceeded more or less on schedule, except for some delays
experienced with the Specific Pathogen Free (SPF) facility at the Veterinary Research Center in
Harbin. Ihe bulk of the equipment purchased under ICB was similarly delivered more or less
on schedule. Delays were experienced with the supply of some of the directly purchased
equipment. The local technical and language training programs were also implemented more or
less on schedule. However, due to a large number of overseas trainees upgrading their studies
to MSc, PhD or Post-Doctoral research, the average length of overseas study tours has more
than doubled from that anticipated at appraisal, and this lengthened the overseas training
programa. Delays were also experienced with the implementation of technical assistance (TA).



- iv -
At the time of project closing (June 1992) it is estimated that less than 50 percent of the
originallyplanned person-months of overseas consultancy had been utilized. The project period
was extended twice in order to allow extra time for the purchase of equipment and spare parts,
and to allow for completion of the overseas training program and TA.
4.           The credit was fully disbursed at the time of project closing. However, the
overall acta project expenditure was about $5.4 million less than originally anticipated, in part
due to generous contingency allowances, especially for civil works. This was offset in the later
part of project implementation to cover rising equipment and overseas training costs. The
successful implementation of the project can largely be attributed to the lhard work of the Project
Office established within the Min;stry of Agriculture.
Results
5.           The project was successful in meeting its principal objectives of improving the
staffing and facilities of 15 research centers and 10 agrotechnical extensioa stations, which are
now generally well equipped with offices, houses, laboratories and scientific equipment. The
civil wotks program exceeded its original physical target by 13 percent; the US dollar value of
equipment provided was some 40 percent more than originally anticipated-due largely to
transfer of funds from the technical assistance category and depreciation of the US dollar against
the SDR over the project period. The local and overseas degree programs exceeded their
person-year targets by 35 percent and 160 percent, respectively. In contrast, the technical
assistance program only achieved some 42 percent of its target. No attempt was made at
appraisal to calculate a rate of return for the project because of the difficulty of eisaggregating
the contributions of investments and benefits of research, extension, irrigation and training to
overall Increases in yields and production. For the same reasons, and because there are as yet
no discrete technologies that can be attributed to the project, no rate of return analysis for the
completed project was undertaken at project completion.
6.           It is too early to expect the project to have resulted In the development of new
improved technologies and their uptake by the farming sector. The project has, however,
contributed substantially to raising the standards of scientific staff attairnents and there are signs
of increased research productivity or output-thus the number of research programs/projects and
of published papers has increased. There is also evidence of an increase in the rate of selection
and development of new crop varieties (e.g., cotton and wheat).
7.           The agrotechnical extension centers supported by the project are now suitably
housed and equipped. Evidence suggests a significant improvement in the organization of
extension services, training of extension agents and "key' farmers, and the provision of
supporting technical services either from their own resources or through contacts with
neighboring university laboratories or research institutes. There are signs that Extension
Committees set up at the ATESs are working reasonably well, providing a two-way means of
communication-feeding technical messages from researchers to extension workers and feeding
back farmers' problems to researchers.
8.           Somewhat less encouraging is the apparent underutilization of much of the
scientific and extension equipment supplied under the project, especially in the early part of



v -
project Implementation. This can be attributed pardy to the inevitable time lag between the
arrival of new equipment and the modification and development of research programs to make
full use of new facilities; it also reflects a shortage of trained technicians and delays associated
with the return of students trained overseas familiar with the use uf such sophisticated equipment.
However, it Is also the case that much of the equipment is very sophisticated (see Annex 3)
requiring stable, high wattage power, which is not always avaflable, and expensive reagents and
separation media. Given the modest operational budgets of many of the institutes, it is difficult
for them to afford full utilization of such equipment. The situation improved in many of the
research centers towards the later part of the project, and lessons relating to equipment have
already been reflected in recent projects.
Project Sustalnabllity
9.           The project was designed to ensure an increase in technologies available to the
farmer by enhancing the physical capability of research institutes and agrotechnical extension
stations and providing better trained staff. In very large measure, these improvements have been
made and there are already encouraging signs of an Increased output from the system that will
be sustained by regular research funding. There is, however, some concern about the ability of
the instittes to maintain and repair some of the sophisticated equipment, given the Government's
present failure to augment maintenance funds at institutes provided with sophisticated
nstrumentation under the project. Of greater concern is the nonreturn of many research staff
trained overseas. An estimated 50 percent of trainees are not expected to return. This
represents a huge loss of manpower to the research system, and will result in continued
underutilization of equipment, and a much slower than anticipated development of new
technologies.
mndings and Lessons Learned
10.          Experience under the project indicated:  (a) the need for greater effort to
encourage the return of students who have completed their studies; and (b) the need for greater
efforts to identify and recruit overseas speciatists for technical assistance consultancies. Other
lessons mainly relate to equipment. First, IDA should have made greater efforts to ensure that
sufficient funds were provided for the operation and maintenance of equipment provided under
the project. Secondly, it would have been advantageous to establish a central maintenance and
repair facility for specialist equipment, as repeatedly recommended by supervision missions, for
which there is no service agency in China. Thirdly, project expert opinion should have been
provided during project implementation with regard to equipment selection and procurement.
This would have prevented some of the unfortunate purchases made in the project (see
para. 4.4), and might have resulted ir a better balance between sophisticated and more routine
equipment. Although potentially very useful, much of the equipment supplied is sophisticated
for many of the research programs currently being undertaken. Fourthfly, for individual items
of specialized equipment, greater use should have been made of Limited International Bidding
rather than International Competitive Bidding. This would have helped to prevent the supply
of low-cost obsolete equipment, as occurred with computers.



PROJECT COMETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND AGRICULTURL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1516-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name :            Second Agricultural Research Project
Credit Number                    1516-CHA
RVP Unit    :             East Asia and Pacific Region
Country                   China
Sector                    Agriculture
Subsector                 Agricultural Support Services
2. Background
2.1        Agriculture. Agriculture in China provides sustenance to over one billion people, and
accounts for about one third of the country's GDP. Agricultural development has been accorded high
priority since the founding of the People's Republic. Over the period 1955-78 the sector grew by about
3.2 percent per annum, with grain yields doubling between 1952 and 1978 and the basic food
requiremens of the population being met In normal years.
2.2        Since that time, goverment priorities have been aimed at mainang self- sufficiency In
grains and improving output of cash crops, livestock and fisheries, and increasing the area of forests.
With only about 14 percent of the nation's 960 million ha in arable cropland, however, and with a
growing population, these aims can only be achieved by firher intensification of agriculture. Key
elements of the Government's strategy to achieve these aims have therefore included: designation of
speci production areas for marketable crops, improved distribution and marketing, improvement of
producer icentives, construction of irrigation systems, expansion of agricultural research activities,
increased use of modern inputs and technology, and strengthening of the agricultural extension system.
2.3        Agricultural Research. The Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) is the nation's premier
research agency responsible for over 100 National Research Institutes undertaking primarily basic
research, including some important work in the agricultural sciences. At the time of project preparation,
the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was the
most Important agen  involved in applied and adaptive agricultural research at the central level; it was
responsible for soe 31 research institutes, 3 research laboratories and a central library and information
service. Total staffing numbered nearly 9,000, of whom 45 percent were research scientsts. As well
as CAAS, a nmber of smaller ministerial agencies sponsor research in such specialized fields as aquatic
producs and tropical crops; forestry, wate resources and meteorology research are colled by other
relevant Ministries. At the provincal level, provincial academies of agricultura science take the lead in
conducting applied/adaptive research. These academies are supervised and fimded by provincial



-2 -
governments, but guidance in research planning is provided by CAAS or other central ministry affiliates.
At appraisal, there were 393 agricultural research institutes at the provincial level and above (icluding
those of CAAS), with a total staff of about 60,000.
2.4        Since the 1950s there have been some impressive research achievements, with notable
advances in such important areas as high-yielding rice and wheat varieties. Overall, however, the quality
and volume of research has been variable. Tle service was badly disrupted during the long Cultura
Revolution (1966-76) when it was cut off from the international scientific community, and was subject
to political rather than scientific management and direction. During the Revolution, many research
centers were closed or repossessed and minimal funding w's provided for equipment, supplies and
maintenance. The Cultural Revolution through its anti-elitist ideologies also affected the quality of CAAS
staffing and the trning of scientists at universities. Thus in 1983, only 40 percent of research staff at
the institutes to be helpfd by the project had bachelors degrees, and only 13 percent had PhD degrees.
2.5        AgrIculural Colleges and Universides. In 1979 there were 85 i        of higher
learning in agriculture enrolling about 100,000 students, including 1 percent at the postgraduate level.
In addion w participating in short-tem research projects assigned by central agencies, a number of
agricultural colleges have played an advisory role in designing and setting up special regional research
units.
2.6       lInks between Research and Extsion. The provinces, counties and townships are
primarily responsible for extension, demonstation and training. MOA, through its General Extension
Bureau in Beijing, administers a vast extension network responsible for supevising a hierarchy of
agencies/uts reaching down to the specialized or demonstration household level. In 1979, the
Government began a major program to further upgrade extension services and pesonnel in order to
expedite the transfer of new technology to farmers. IMis was to be achieved by replacing the county
research institute in each of China's 2,300 counties with a new agotechnical extension staion which
would combine under one administration such previously independent services is soil testing, seed
production and plant protection. By 1983, over 300 staions had been established, two-thirds financed
by provinces, municipalities and counties. Extension personnel at the time numbered about 170,000, of
whom only 35 percent had formal training. Primary functions of the new stations are: (a) to conduct
local testng and demonsation-bodt at the etsion stations and selected fiam sites-of research cente
fidingp, (b) to promote acceptance by farmers of tested packages of new technotogy, (c) to provide
or-term training courses to "key farmers who would be expected to relay new knowledge to other
farmers, and (d) to inform research centers of additional production constraints which may arise as the
new tecbnology is widely adopted.
2.7        Bank Group Lending for Agriculture. ITe first Bank Group operation in the agriculure
sector was a $60 million IDA credit fr the North China Plain Agriculture Project (Credit 1261-CHA)
which was approved in June 1982, and aimed at providing irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha
covering part of nine counties in three provinces. The second project, the Agricultural Education and
Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA), for which an IDA credit of $75 million was approved also in 1982,
spported the Government's program to strengthen higher education and research in the agricultre sector
by providig civil works, equipment and technical asistance to selected agricultral coUleges and rearch
Instutes. Since 1982, over 30 projects (oaos and credits) have been approved in the sector, financing
investmes in land reclamation, rural credit, economic tree crops, agroprocessing and virtualy the entire



-3 -
range of agro-industries, livestock, aquaculture and marine fisheries, irrigation and drainage, flood
control, fertilizers, seeds, rural policy reform, forestry and integrated area development. In addition to
Credit 1297-CHA, related support service projects include the University Development Project
(Loan 2021/Credit 1167) for $100.0 million approved in 1981; and the Second Agricultural Education
Project (Loan 2444/Credit 1500) for $45.3 million approved in 1984. The Agricultural Support Services
Project, much broader in scope and in geographical and organizational coverage, but based in part on the
experience of this project, was approved for $115 million on February 23, 1993.
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1        Objectives. An Agricultral Research Study undertaken in 1984, under the IDA-financed
Agricultural Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA), identified the main needs of the system
as fiuther improvement of physical facilities and development of requisite high level manpower to
increase the volume and quality of research, strengthened research planning and management, and
improved communication of research results to farmers. The main objectives of the Second Agriculturl
Research Project were to meet these needs by expanding and improving 15 Research Centers throughout
China (see Figure 1 and Annex 1) responsible for priority research in food and cash crops, livestock,
aquatic products, forestry, hydrology and meteorology. In addition, the project aimed at supporting a
pilot program to strengthen the extension work of 10 county level agrotechnical extension stations.
3.2        Project Description. The project provided for:
(a)  construction or renovation of 112,000 m2 of laboratories, offices, farm facilities and staff
housing for the research and information centers;
(b)  acquisition of scientific equipment, both standard and specialized items, farm equipment and
computers for the research centers and audiovisual and analytical equipment for the
extension stations;
(c) library equipment, books and materials to upgrade research center library facilities;
(d) local and overseas training for both center and station staff in the agricultural and related
sciences, management and library science as well as English language training for reseach
staff, and
(e) technical assistance to assist in review of research center programs, program formulation
for the extension stations and future project preparation.
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project, as prepared by MOA and reviewed by an IDA mission in April 1983, was
designed to provide support for research centers that: (a) were located in six different agrocological
zones; (b) were carrying out research reflecting government priorities of raising crop yields, developing
underutlized resources and improving research/information management; and (c) had the potent  based
on past achievements, location, and staff competence to generate new technologies capable of Increasing
agricultul productivity. By and large, support was provided to Research Centers that did not receive
support under the first Agricultural Education and Research Project.



-4 -
4.2        Simultaneously, the project included support for a pilot program of assistance to 10 recently
formed agrotechnical extension stations (ATES) in 10 different county cultivation areas. The stations are
primarily responsible for organizing extension efforts through townships, villages and demonstration
households, and conduct training courses at all these levels. They also undertake field trials with new
crop varieties/packages of practices to select those best adapted to local use and test other research
findings. Each station was to be supplied with a standard package of audiovisual equipment, simple
laboratory equipment and soil testing materials; a field vehicle was also to be supplied to each station.
The equipment included 16 mm film projection equipment and an extension trailer, with a variety of
equipment inside. Technical assistance was to be provided under the project to assist the 10 ATES in
program formulation and establishment of Extension Committees to oversee and advise on all aspects of
their operation.
4.3        Given the rundown state of much of the service in the 1960s and 1970s and the government
priorities to raise agricultural productivity through developing new technologies, the overall project
concept and design was appropriate and timely. No major problems were experienced that can be
attributed to poor design in respect of the civil works program, all of which had been approved by MOA
at the time of project appraisal.
4.4        There were some problems associated with equipment procurement and provision of
technical assistance, which can be attributed partly to weaknesses of project design. In the early years
of the project some difficulties were experienced in selecting the right equipment. For example, the
choice of minicomputers was inappropriate given the limited application software available for such
machines; the mobile audiovisual/training trailers supplied to the ATES have proved to be almost useless;
and the 16 mm film projectors were virtually obsolete on arrival given the emergence of video equipment
in the early 1980s. These difficulties could have been minimized if the project had made greater use of
technical assistance to advise on specialist equipment selection and sourcing (as in the case of the Specific
Pathogen Free facility in Harbin).
4.5        In view of the substantial costs in foreign exchange associated with repair and maintenance,
a second design weakness associated with equipment was the failure to either covenant a requirement for
MOA to increase operational funding to cover increases in equipment maintenance costs, or to build in
mechanisms to provide for funds to maintain and repair the equipment upon project completion. A
specific design weakness concerns the Veterinary Research Center (established in 1948) in Harbin in
Heilongjiang province in the northeast of China. Before project implementation, this center had
successfully developed numerous vaccines and diagnostic procedures, the most significant being the
production of the world's first vaccine for equine infectious anemia. Nevertheless, it was felt necessary
to construct a new animal laboratory building, including facilities for the production of Specific Pathogen
Free (SPF) animals for research and the production of vaccines and antisera. This decision apparently
overlooked the lack of experience in the specialized technology involved which, coupled with slow release
of counterpart funds, has led to significant delays in the completion of the facility. The lack of
specialized expertise, together with estimated annual operating costs of $1.0 million needed by the new
laboratory building, may jeopardize full use of the facility. A further design weakness was the failure
to covenant the requirement to recruit the target number of technical assistance experts.
4.6        At the national level, the organizational arrangements called for MOA to have primary
responsibility for the project, with the Director of MOA's Education Bureau serving as the Project
Director. A Project Office (PO), staffed by the Bureaus of Education, Science and Technology and



-  -
headed by a Project Coordinator, was responsible for day-to-day project management. The PO had five
subsections responsible for Liaison and Coordination, Projects, Finance, Fellowships and Equipment
Procurement. Tbis organizational structure was based on that developed for Credit 1297-CHA, and
generally appears to have functioned well throughout the project. The P0 was assisted by Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) established at each of the 15 research institutes and 10 ATESs. These units
were responsible for local planning, budgeting and monitoring. The PIUs were all established early in
the life of the project. Ihe Project Coordinator paid a number of visits to the project institutes during
the project, and the five subsections played a major role in equipment selection and the fellowship
program. Interagency coordination was provided by a project panel comprising senior officials from
MOA, the Ministry of Forestry, Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power, and Central
Meteorological Bureau.
5.   ProJect Implementation
5.1        Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-Up. The Credit Agreement was signed in December
1984 and the Credit became effective soon afterwards in March 1985. However, implementation of the
civil works program began as soon as the Credit was signed.
5.2        Inplemnentation Schedule.  The project was originally scheduled for completion in
December 1989, five years after signing. Most of the civil works program, the largest single expenditure
category accounting for 40 percent of total project cost, was implemented on schedule. There were,
however, serious delays in the construction of the SPF facility at the Veterinary Research Center in
Harbin due to slow release of counterpart funds and technical difficulties. The equipment to be procured
by International Competitive Bidding had been delivered more or less on schedule by the end of 1989,
with most of the deliveries taking place between 1986 and 1988. Considerable delays were, however,
experienced with the supply of directly purchased equipment. At the end of 1989, some 60 percent of
this equipment had still to be delivered. The project closing date was extended twice, in 1990 and 1991,
in order to allow extra time for the purchase of equipment and spare parts, and to allow for completion
of the training program.
5.3        The local and overseas training program was to be implemented from the end of the first
year until project completion, and it started as planned in 1985. The local technical training and language
training programs were implemented more or less on schedule. However, due to a large number of
overseas trainees upgrading their studies, either from advanced studies to MSc, from MSc to PhD or from
PhD to Post-Doctoral research, the average length of overseas study tours has more than doubled from
that anticipated at appraisal, and this prevented implementation of the overseas training program on
schedule. Considerable delays were also experienced with the implementation of technical assistance.
At the time of project closing (June 1992), it is estimated that less than 50 percent of the originally
planned person-months of overseas consultancy had been utilized. In part this can be attributed to a
reluctance on the part of MOA to use hard currency project funds to recruit expatriates, and partly to the
political distrbances in 1989 that discouraged visitors to China.
5.4        Procurement. This was handled by the Project Office in cooperation with the individual
Project Implementation Units at each of the institutes. The bulk of the equipment purchased overseas was
purchased through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) which presented few administrative problems.
By the end of 1989, some 181 contracts, consisting of 1,192 packages or sets valued at $12.5 million,
had been procured under ICB. The balance of the equipment purchased locally and overseas was



-6 -
procured by direct bidding because the size of the contracts awarded was too small to justify ICB.
Overall ICB procedures resulted in satisfactory supply of equipment. However, problems were
experienced with the ICB supply of certain items that failed to meet technical specifications (see
para. 4.4), were defective on arnival (e.g., infrared analyzers, and growth chambers) or have been
difficult or impossible to get replaced or repaired by the original suppliers. There is a feeling in some
quarters, supported by the mission, that ICB procedures may have exacerbated those problems by
enabling suppliers to offload obsolete items by competitive pricing, and that for some specialized research
equipment other procurement methods, such as Limited International Bidding (IB) or International
Shopping, might be preferable.
5.5        Disbursement. This was higher than anticipated in the first two years of the project owing
to the establishment of a special project account in the second year. Subsequently disbursement slowed,
in line with delays in equipment purchase and recruitment of consultants. The IDA Credit was fully
disbursed by the time of the twice-extended closing date. However, the overall project expenditure is
estimated to be some $5.4 million less than anticipated at appraisal. This is largely attributed to what
proved to be unduly generous allowances for contingencies at appraisal, especially for the civil works
program that proceeded largely on schedule, thereby minimizing price contingency needs.
5.6        Credit Allocation. The original, revised and actual allocations of funds by expenditure
category are shown in Section 5 of Part m. By and large, allocation was as anticipated, with a modest
reallocation of equipment and technical assistance funds to enable an expanded training program. Most
of the additional $4.0 million funding arising from depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR was
allocated to equipment purchase, equipment service contracts and some extension of training from MSc
to PhD. The purchase of additional equipment was consistent with the objectives of the project.
6.   Project Results
6.1        Objectives. Overall the project was successful in meeting its principal objectives of
improving the staffing and facilities of 15 research centers and 10 agrotechnical extension stations.
6.2        Physical Results. With the exception of the technical assistance program, the project met
or exceeded its physical targets as indicated in Section 4 of Part m. The civil works program exceeded
its original physical target by 13 percent; the US dollar value of equipment provided was some 40 percent
more than originally anticipated-due largely to depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR over the
project period, transfer of funds from the technical assistance category and the use of unallocated funds.
The local and overseas degree programs exceeded their person-year targets by 35 percent and 160 percent
respectively, the latter being due to the large number of trainees who upgraded their studies. In the case
of these upgrades, many trainees augmented their project fellowships by acquiring financial support from
host country sources. In contrast, the technical assistance program only achieved some 42 percent of its
target.
6.3        Rnancial Impact. No attempt was made at appraisal to calculate a rate of return for the
project because of the difficulty of disaggregating the contributions of investments and benefits of
research, extension, irrigation and training to overall increase in yields and production. It was, however,
indicated that comparable investments in agricultural research elsewhere had geneaed rates of retrn
from 35-90 percent. No attempt has been made to undertake a rate of return analysis for the project as
a whole at this stage for the same reasons given at appraisal, and also because there are as yet no discrete



- 7 -
technologies that can be specifically attributed to the project. It is, however, worth bearing in mind that
it only requires the development of one significantly improved rew crop variety to more than cover the
investment costs of the project. For example, if one of the new cotton varieties that have been developed
using the new equipment supplied to the Cotton, Wheat and Maize Institute, has a yield advantage of only
5 percent over existing varieties, and if it were planted on half the national cotton acreage over a period
of four years, the incremental value in cotton output would more than cover the total project cost and
would generate an overall rate of return of over 21 percent. The assumptions and calculations made in
this analysis are provided in Annex 2.
6.4        Project lmpact. In general, the research institutes supported by the project are now well
equipper' with laboratories, offices, housing and scientific equipment. The project has also contributed
substantially to raising the standards of scientific staff attainments through local and overseas training,
and through the technical assistance program. It is too early to expect the project to have resulted in the
development and uptake of new improved technologies by the farming sector, but there are signs of
Increased research productivity or output-thus the number of research programs/projects has increased
and the number of papers published and awards received has increased at many of the centers and there
is some evidence of an increase in the rate of selection and development of new crop varieties (e.g.,
cotton and wheat). Researcher morale, especially in the case of returned overseas trainees, appears to
have improved substantially.
6.5        The agrotechnical extension centers supported by the project are now suitably housed and
equipped. Evidence presented to the mission suggested a significant improvement in the organization of
extension services, taining of extension agents and "key" farmers, and the provision of supporting
technical services either from their own resources or through contacts with neighboring university
laboratories or research institutes. There are signs that the Extension Committees set up at the ATESs
are working reasonably well, providing a two-way means of communication-feeding technical messages
from researchers to extension workers and feeding back farmers' problems to researchers.
6.6        Somewhat less encouraging is the apparent underutilization, at a few research centers, of
much of the scientific and extension equipment supplied under the project. At all the centers visited by
the mission much of the equipment, although operational, was clearly not in regular use, and the
supervision reports indicate a similar situation at many of the other centers. This can be attributed partly
to the inevitable time lag between the arrival of new equipment and the modification and development
of research programs to make full use of new facilities; and also to a shortage of trained technicians and
to the delays associated with the return of students trained overseas familiar with the use of such
sophisticated equipment. However, it is also the case that much of the equipment is rather sophisticated
(see Annex 3), requiring stable, high wattage power, which is not always available, and expensive
reagents and separation media. Given the modest operational budgets of many of the institutes it is
difficult for them to afford full utilization of such equipment. In retrospect, it might have been more
appropriate to limit the supply of very sophisticated equipment to leading centers and/or to have provided
centers with a more balanced mix of sophisticated and more basic equipment.
6.7        Some concern also exists regarding the appropriateness of some of the institute research
programs. For example, the Grassland Research Center program gives special attention to work on
grassland management systems, development of new grasses and pasture improvement, and the problems
associated with fodder and grassland development. Remarkably, however, for a part of the country with



-8-
a mean annual temperature of W-6eC and only 127 frost free days per year, there Is as yet no program
on cold tolerance in grasses and forage legumes.
7.   Projed Sustlanability
7.1        The project was designed to ensure an increase in technologies available to the farmer by
enhancing the physical capability of research institutes and agrotechnical extension stations and providing
bener trained staff. In very large measure, these Improvements have been made and there are already
encouraging signs of an increased output from the system (see para. 6.4). There is general concern,
however, about the ability of the Institutes to maintain and repair equipment, given the Government's
present failure to augment maintenance funds at insutes where there has been a large increase in
sophisticated instrumentation provided under the projec. Some service contas have been. entered into
with suppliers for 2/3 years but it has also not proved feasible to establish a central facility operated by
CAAS to repair specialized equipment provided by the project for which there are no service agents in
China. There is also concern about the lack of thought given to provision of the annual operating
expenses of the animal laboratory building at the Veterinary Research Center, Harbin (not visited by ihe
mission), which was calculated by the 1991 Supervision Mission to amount to an equivalent of $1.0
million per year. Some of these costs can be recovered from the sale of vaccines but only if production
output increases substantially.
7.2        Many research staff have been sent abroad on training grants under the project. Few of
these (see para. 5.3) have, at the present stage, returned. These scientists represent a serious loss to
agricultural research in China, particularly as a number of them were expected to make ful use of the
new equipment provided under the project, thus justifying its purchase. Iheir coinued absence raises
doubts about the sustainability of research at the high levels envisaged at the time the project was
formulated.
7.3        China has at present a research management system that develops research programs wihin
the declared policy of the Five-Year Plans, modified on a local basis by farmers' needs. This is achieved
by a panoply of commitees at national, provincial and institute level together with feedback from the
extension service through the agrotechnical extension centers and institute contacts providing information
about problems in the field and farmers' needs. Both the policy/straegy and research programs appear
to be reviewed annually at appropriate levels. Research proposals appear to include atl the information
necessary to enable informed judgments to be made and the research to be funded and managed.
Evaluation of the research is made regularly and in sufficient depth to be able to judge excellence and
award prizes. Most importantly, projects not meeting their targets can be identified and are terminated,
so there should be little poor-quality research ongoing. The research management system, therefore, is
effective though cumbersome. There is, consequently, no reason to believe that because of a failure to
fully utilize the proposed technical assistance input the system as a whole witl suffer from poor
management. Indeed before attempts are made to interfere with it or "streamline' it, there is a need for
a study of the system such as that being carried out by the International Service for National Agricultud
Research (ISNAR), so that improvement can be made only where needed such as at specific instiutes (see
para. 6.7). There is a risk otherwise of losing the benefits of the present system without providing a
viable alternative.



-9-
8. MDA Performance
8.1        Through the Second Agricultual Research Project IDA has made a significant contribution
to the development and strengthening of agricultural rosearch and extension in China. IDA was heavily
involved in the project from review of original project proposals, preparation and appraisal through to
project supervision during implementation. During preparation and appraisal IDA made a number of
suggestions regarding the type of equipment to purchase, training needs, the use of technical assistance
and the establishment of Extension Committees to link researchers and extension workers.
8.2        The supervision missions, which took place on a regular basis once a year over the period
1985-91, were regarded as most useful by MOA and institute staff. Supervision mission staff were able
to resolve issues conceing equipment, procurement and in reallocating funds saved from the underspent
tedhical assistance to additional equipment and training, and to recommend two extensions of the project.
The missions were also able to accelerate the establishment of Extension Committees and to alert MOA
to the need to raise the operating budgets of project institutes to enable them to operate and mainta  the
new equipment. The missions also contributed to the design and modification of research programs by
suggesting changes in priorities, and in encouraging an acceleration of the process of varietal release.
The missions were, however, unable to advance the completion of the SPF facility at Harbin
satisfacorily, and were able to assist MOA in recruiting only some of the overseas technical assistance
originally targeted.
8.3        A minor shortcoming of IDA supervision missions, as reported by IWntute staff, was the
infrequeny of visits and the number of different mission members. To a large extent, this can be
attributed to the amount of time required for traveling to the 15 institutes which were located throughout
China, often in remote locations, several days' travel from one another. Even though some time was
spent with project staff in between missions, however, greater problem-solving assistance could have been
provided if supervision missions had been every six months, as was once commonly the case. Current
Bank Group budgeting practices apparently make such intensive supervision virtually impossible.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        Ihe Borrower performed well. With the main exception of the SPF at Harbin, counterpart
fuds were released on time and the civil works were completed ahead of or on schedule. Ihe Project
Office was competey staffed throughout the project and PIUs were established at the centers early in
the life of the project, although early supervision reports indicated that Project Office staff did not visit
the research institutes frequenty enough. Some delays were experienced in the establishment of
Extension Committees at some of the agrotecnical centers. The main area of contention between ilA
and the Borrower concerned the use of overseas technical assistance, and in particular the use of
consultants to advise on research program development and review. 'Te two-year extension of the
project was due mainly to delays associated with the release of trainees-it was not possible to release
too many at one time-and the need for extra time to complete order of equipment and spare parts. Audit
reports were received on time.



- 10-
10. Project Relationships
10.1       Ihroughout the project, relationshios between the Borrower and IDA were good as a result
of regular communication between the Project Office and IDA. This was greatly assisted by the
continuity of the IDA Task Manager supervising the project.
11.  Consulting Services
11.1       The project originally included $1.132 million for technical assistance from Chinese and
overseas consultants. Initially, the use of consultants, especially from overseas, was slow and in 1989,
following the political troubles, there was an almost complete cessation of consultant employment.
However, in the later years of the project, the input from consultants increased considerably and at
project completion there had been 99 person-months of consultancies, of whom approximately one third
were overseas consultancies at a total cost of $585,000. All institutes claim to have benefited
considerably from the consultant visits they received. More use of project funds for international
consultants could have largely compensated for the constraints on technical assistance provided by IDA
supervision missions, limited by Bank Group administrative budgets. Some compensation was ptovided
anyway by bilaterally funded teams (e.g., from the Australian Center for International Agricultura
Research), arranged through considerable effort by the IDA Task Manager.
12.  Compliance with Covenants
12.1       There were only five project specific covenants-see Part m, Section 7. By and large, they
were all adhered to, although there were delays in establishing some of the PIUs at the ATESs Wnd in
preparing some of the annual Institute Research Programs. It is also questionable whether sufficient finds
have been or will be provided to maintain adequately the equipment purchased, as called for by one of
the covenants (Clause 4.02 of the Credit Agreement).
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1       The SAR, as well as the legal agreements for the project, provided a useful framework for
IDA and the Borrower during project Implementation. On closing of the project, all Institutes were
requested to prepare an execution or final report, outlining their experiences and achievements. It is
understood that 13 of the 15 institutes had submitted such a report by the end of September 1992. Those
institutes visited by the PCR mission had produced their reports in English and Chinese. These provide
a concise summary, listing the facilities and training provided under the project and of the concemed
institutes' recent achievements. Adequate records were kept of expenditure classified by major
expenditure categories.
14. Lessons Learned
14.1       There are several lessons to be learned from experience in this project. The more significan
include:
(a)   The Bank Group should make greater efforts to enforce covenants to ensure that sufficient
funds are made available for the repair and maintenance of equipment purchased. Further,
under this project it would have been advantageous if a central repair facility had been



-11-
estalished for maintenance of specialist equipment for which there are no service agents
In China.
(b)  During implementation of projecs such as this, expert opinion should be provided in are
where local expertise is sparse or lacking, including with regard to equipment selection and
procurement.
(c)   Research traineess  overseas for further traing should be actively encouaged to return
on the completion of their agreed study program (e.g., through covenatn).
(d)  Reluctance to use credit funAds for the employment of badly needed foreign tehical
assistance should be overcome by building appropriate conditions into project
implementation, which would then be covenanted in the legal documents.
(e)   An acceptable alternatve should be sought for ICB for the purchase of speclized
equipment or items such as computers, where technical advance is rapid, and compatibility
with existng systems is important.
(t)   More staff time should be cenally budgeted for supervision to resolve issues/problems as
they develop.



- 12 -
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
15.  Introducton-Situation of the Project
15.1      Background. Owing to China's actual condition of too many people with too little land,
the only way out to solve the existing problems is to increase the input of science and technology in
agriculture.
15.2      Composidon of the Project. The entire project is composed of 16 project units with 15
scientific research, information and training centers and one extension unit formed by 10 countylevel
agricultural technical extension centers.
15.3      Objectives of the Project. The emphasis is to strengthen the building of the agricultural
research institutes so as to form a scientific system with a closely coordinated crop firming industry
(grain and economic crops); increase the post-production of processing and the comprehensive utilization
of those agroproducts; establish the supervision and monitoring centers to protect environment and raise
the quality of agroproducts; find ways to improve equipment used for agrotechnical extension to promote
the transformation of achievements obtained from research; and strengthen the coordination and
development of science and technology research institutes in the field of agriculture, forestry, water
conservancy and meteorology.
15.4      Investment of the Project. It was estimated by the Appraisal Report that the total cost of
the project was $69 million, among which the fund provided by MDA was SDR 24.3 milion; and the
counterpart fund provided by the Chinese Government was paid in renminbi which was equivalent to $44
million.
16. Preparatory Work of the Project
16.1      The feasibility study of the project and detrmination of project plan and inspection and
appraisal carried out by the World Bank were completed smoothly and accurately as plamed, and
conformed with the actual situation and easy to implement. It benefited from experience obtained in the
first Agricultural Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA) and many of the staff members
continued serving in the Project Office (PO).
17.  Orgaza"tion and Administration of the Project
17.1      OrganIation of the Project. The organization of the project is the same as that for the
first Agricultural Education and Research Project, supported by the Project Committee and the equipment
procurement expert sections of the PO. Because there were three projects to be carried out at the same
time, the PO was thus strengthened.
17.2       Readjustment and Extension of the Project.  During the latter part of project
implementation, the readjustment of the categories of project items was carried out. It was approved by
the World Bank. IThe final execution of the project complied with the readjusted categories. Owing to
the political situation in 1989, and the readjustment of China's economy, a great deal of time was taken



- 13 -
up In implementing the project, and making It more difficult to implement the project. The project
closing date was extended twice, and the fia closing date was June 30, 1992.
18. Evaluation of Borrower's Performance
18.1      'he civil works had exceeded the planned target of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). It
was estimaed that 118 688 m2 of laboratory and office buildings and dormitories were completed,
compared to 111,793 m;)in the SAR, and 984 ha of farmands and grassland compared to 463 ha.
18.2      Procurment of Equipment. By the end of 1991, procurement was completed for 5,748
sets of intument and equipment, including computers and equipment for engineering, chemistr,
biology and audiovisual aids, at a total cost of $21,584,000. (Another $2,667,000 was disbursed for
procurement of the equipment in the fis half of 1992.) The total cost for equipment was $24,247,400
(82.9 percent of the credit).
18.3      Acceptance Test and Operation of the Equipment. Through acceptance test, 5,716 set,
accouning for 99.4 percent, were good and usable. After the acceptance test, 5,709 sets were put into
operation, of which 5,679 sets (99.5 percent) proved to be in good condition. It is evident that the
purchase of instruments and equipment for the project is quite successful with only 128 inferior
equipment. There are still 30 sets of. equipment unresolved following damage claims. Ihe iurchas of
the microcomputer from a company in France and a 16-bit microcomputer fom another company was
a mistake, since they are not compatiole with other computers.
18.4      Purchase of Bookss NMazlnes and Materials. Six of the project units have used $242,000
to buy 5,245 copies of foreign books, magazines and materials in different languages; 10 of the project
units have also used Y 2.85 million to purchase 230,077 copies of Chinese books and magaines and
merials for the information and research centers.
18.5       Construction of laboratories. Sixty-one laboratories at the 15 centers were newly built
or renovated. However, 69 laboratories, Including 36 new and 33 renovated laboratories, have been
completed by the end of 1991. Besides, other buildings have also been constructed, In ing a new
medium-size germplasm bank, a cotton-gimning workshop and a spinning pilot-plant test workshop, a
specialty processing workshop, a potato chips workshop, and a modem SPF experimental animal house.
Up to the present, the experimental animal house has not been put into operation and the spining pilot-
plant test workshop is expected to be operational by late 1993.
18.6      AHocation of Laborator Personnel and the Utilzation Ratio o Equipment. Appropriate
technicians have been allocated to various newly built or renovated laboratories. IThe training of the
technical personnel and the utilization of the instrumets and equipment should be farther strengthened.
Ihe present utlization ratio of the equipment has reached the primary level without hindern the research
work. Due to the fact that the number of returned students who were sent abroad by the project had been
less than expected, this affected the allocation of finds and electricity, especially for some of tIhe unit
that are located in remote areas. Further improvement should also be carried out in the utilization ratio
of the equipment.



-14-
19.  Tranin
19.1      Ovas Trainng. According to the requirement of the Apprasl Report,  was prposed
to send 119 mrsons abroad, Inuding 25 postgaduates and 94 nondegree students (equivalent to
98 person-yCrs). As a relt of tho Implementaion of tho project, 38 postgraduates have been sent out,
and 96 for adanced study ncluding senior visiting scholars. In all, 134 persons have been sent oveas,
equivalent to 158 person-years. At the time of closing date of the project, 58 students studying abroad
have reun, ac          for 43.3 percent of the total, Including 3 doctorates, S masters and 50 advanced
study studt and senior visiting scholan. Te returned saudents have become laesds in their respecdve
disciplines or key academic resah peasonnel.  Many of them have also become the leading
adminitraive members of their Institions.
19.2      IAl Trainin. According to the estimated plan, 293 students were to be trained locally,
Including 53 postgaduates and 240 nondegree studets (equivalent to 275 person-years); and
1,596 person-months of language training. During implementation, 1,118 students have been trained
(equivalent to 610 person-years), including 73 postgraduates and 1,045 nondegree students. In addition,
285 persons from various research units have taken part in language training, equivalent to 1,912 person-
months. The target for local training has been exceeded, thus upgrading the quality of the techical
persone and their foreigp lage capability.
19.3      Study Tours and Intrnatioal Conferenas. Study tour groups sen <ounder the project
were nicty controlled. Generally, no more than four persons partcipated in a study tour goup to one
couny for about three weeks. Altogether, 89 staff members have been sent out from 16 project units,
equivalent to 76 person-montbs. On average, about 5.6 mangement and tehnical stdy tours were sen
out ftom each unit. The target was attained by carefil selection and dispatching of the study groups.
During implementaion of this project, 55 staff were sent out to take part in 33 international academic
coerences. A total of $445,000 for study tours and $220,000 for intenatdonal conferences were
disbursed.
20.  TecnIal Assstance and Training
20.1       Lecurr and Comultants. According to the SAR, the 11 centers and 10 county-evel
aot cal extension statons were to engage 96 person-months of consulting serices. During the
eary and middle stages of project implentation, we had invted only lecturers. As soon as it was
reinded by the World Bank officials, we std   to invite consultants. Finally, 155 lecturers and
consultants (equivalent to 98 person-months) were engaged under the project. Among them, 127 were
lecrers and 28 consultan, with a total cost of $733,400. The Iost difficult problem in making use
of foreign experts, especially consultants, is that the foreign consultan are not familiar with the Chinese
siuation, so some of the suggestions are not practical in China; and there is a wide gap in the salaries
betwee foreign and Chinese experts.
20.2       Forig  Language Training. The foreign language training project of this project was
carried out in the two foreig language trning centers set up under the first Agricul  Education
Projec (Credit 1297-CHA). A total of 285 students were set to the training ceters at a cost of
$271,000. Research staff from the different centers were also sent to study foreignlanguages at the two
centers.



- 15 
21. Disbursement
21.1       DIsbursmets. The total amount of funds approved under the project was $69 million,
of wbich the disbursed credit was SDR 24.3 million, equivalent to $25 million; the counterpart fimd from
the Chinese Goverment was $44 million, equivalent to Y 86.68 million.
21.2       Disbursement of the Credit. By June 12, 1992, all of the SDR 24.3 million credit had
been disbursed for an amount of $29,243,800 ($4,243,800 or 16.96 percent more than the estimated
amount due to SDR versus US dollar exchange rate changes).
21.3       Disbursement of the Counterpart Funds. By the end of 1991, the actual counterpart funds
disbursed amounted to Y 89.92 million, exceeding the budgeted amount of Y 86.68 million by Y 3.14
million. If calculated according to the exchange rate in each implementation year, it will only be $23.15
million, accounting for 52.61 percent of the budget.
22. PrelliInary Project Benefits and Lessons Learned
22.1       The input of the project funds have greatly improved the research environment, laboratory
ibtruments and equipment, quality of the personnel, materials and information, and without precedent,
upgraded the capability for scientific research, and thus the research achievements resulting in tremendous
eonomic and social benefits.
22.2       Use of Modern Research and Technology to Establish a Number of Basic Facilties.
The newly built and strengthened laboratories could carry out rapid analyses and tests with acurate data
and in-depth observation, thus promoting the speedy development of scientific research. Another
important fact is that, by making use of the modern instruments and equipment, the project was able to
establish three ministral supervision, inspection and test centers for grain quality, cotton fiber and
fodder, and a dam safety monitoring center. The water quality monitoring center established during the
fimst project (Credit 1297-CHA) was furnher strengthened and perfected under this project.
22.3       Ihe constructionof the Tropical Crops Library Information Center was completed in Hainan
Province; a water conservancy information center was built for the Ministry of Water Conservancy; the
"Beijing-Tianjin-Hebel regional medium-range calamitous weather monitoring and short-term forecasting
experimental base' has been completed for the State Meteorology Administration; and the remote sensing,
monitoring and investigation systems have been established for studying resources in the fields of
forestry, fishing grounds and grasslands. These are the important basic facilities necessary for technical
modernization, and outtanding achievements have been obtained.
22.4       The quality of research workers has been upgraded, and their numbers increased, as well
as improvement in the personnel structure. Foreign language capability and participation in international
technical exchanges of research personnel have been rapidly upgraded through training at home and
abroad, including participation in domestic and foreign scientific conferences, overseas study tours,
lectures by foreign experts and consultants, and carrying out practical research activities. The skills of
research workers have been upgraded and their numbers increased and the structure of the personnel more
problem-oriented. According to the statistics published from the 12 project units, the total research staff
in 1990 have been increased by 39.9 percent (compared to 1984). The level of their professional and
academic positions have been upgraded. The percentage of senior, associate and assist mce technical staff



-16-
have changed from the origiral 10.3 percent, 48.2 percet and 41.5 pecen to 22.5 percent, 37.6 pere
and 39.9 percent, respetvely, in 19. The number of senior staff have more than doubled. Th
numbe of persons with MSc degrees bave increased from 64 to 266 (tripled); and PhDs from 9 to 32
(2.5 tImes). It b obvious ta the personnel structure bas Improved and the problem of a shortage of
senior and associate-level research staff has been solved.
22.5       The most Important beneficial return of the project is reflected in the upgrading of te
research level, the quality and quantity of research achievements, and in technical extension. The
Increase of research topics, articles (published In the Importantjourns and magazines) and achievements
fully reflected the preliminary beneficial reurns of the project. According to statistics obtained from the
14 research centers, in 1990 (ast year of the Seventh Five-Year Plan), 1,A71 research projects were
undetaken, 557 more than the 614 In 1985 (last year of the Sixth Five-Year Plan), I.e., up by
90.7 percent; of which, reerch projects at the national level have Increased from 66 to 273 within five
years (3 times more than before); compared with 1985, the scientific aicles published In foreign journals
or magazines In 1990 have Increased by 3.2 times; and the research achievements by 77.5 percent.
22.6       The new cotton variety, *Zhong-Mian No. 12,* bred by research fellow Tan Lianwag and
the others at the Cotton, Wheat and Maize Research Center has combined disease resistance, high yield
and good quality. The yield and disease-resistant characteristics of Zhong-Mian No. 12 has reached
international advanced level. The area planted to this cotton variety has reached 1.28 mIllion ha,
accounting for 25 percent of the cotton area in the country and 70 percent of the previously dise-
affected cotton fields. The total extension area has reached 3.07 million ha, with a net increase of
economic return of about Y 1.69 billion. It won the First Prize of the National Invention Award (the
nation's highest scientific and technological award). This is only one of the many outstanding
achievements obtained in % .Aous research centers, and have made great contibution to the development
of China's agriculture.
22.7       Promotion of InternatIonal Exchanges and Cooperation. During implementation of the
project, the consuction of the laboratories and the in-depth research have provided opportnie for
nternational exchanges and cooperation; technical assistance, overseas study tours and training broad,
and hosting and participating in intenional conferences have promoted international exchanges and
cooperation in China's agricultural research. International cooperation has promoted exchanges of
information and germplam resources and joint investgations. A number of joint research projects have
been carried out, including Important topics such as: study of the drought-resistance mechanism. of
gramlneae crops, application of water conservation In agriculture, study of soybean as fish feed, and
study of cotton nutrition. This kind of cooperation was carried out with many foreign countries, such
as: the Sino-US joint investigation of the Qlnghai-Tibet Plateau, sampling of tree growth-rings,
investigation of atmospheric chemistry, study of water quality, sedimentation and underground water
contamination; the SinJapan joint study of acid rain and water quality; joint investigation of graland
construction and development of animal husbandry by experts from China, England, Australia, New
Zealand and Argentina; the cooperation and collection of germplasm, screening of seed and distribution
of Melbuas rwhenica; and the Sino-France jointly sponsored water-quality monitoring training classes.
At the same time, some joint studies in advanced disciplines have also been car{ ed out. The research
of the ACIAR 8813 wheat resistance to Barley Yellow Dwarf Virus (BYDV) was jointly caried out by
the Crops Basic Research Center and the Plt Science Deparument of CSIRO, AusaL    e glasm
material of the common wheat, with resistance to BYDV, has been obtained and, at the same time, two



-17 -
CDNA detectors were dicovered for use in the detection of the specific DNA in wheat. The research
In these fields has reached Iernational advanced level.
22.8       The projec has Increased and promoted research In the field of agroprocessing tecnology
and In the study of hightech products in China, thus enabling the establishment of a series of Industries
and bringing direct increase In social and econowmic benefits. The establishment of the Specialty Research
Center has strengthened post-production research. Ihe production technology for concentae of Hami
melons, tomatoes and grapes has passed the pilot-plant stage. A production line for fried potato chips
from the United States was introduced by the Enshi Potato Research Center. Tbe production line is now
able to serve the poverty-stricken mountainous areas. The completion of the spinning pilot-plant test
laboratory In Anyang's Cotton, Wheat and Maize Research Center will be China's only laboratory to have
the capability of single-mark test-spinnig. When the experimental animal house at the Harbin Veterinary
Research Center becomes operationcl, several types of vaccines wfll be produced by the Center. Tbe
high-tech products will be subjected to SPF tests and would be sold on the international market. Based
on the Introduction, mastering and adopting the system of irregular-wave generators imported from
Denmark, the Nanjing Water Conservancy Research Center has designed and produced a better irregular-
wave generator of their own with higher capacity. The Meteorological Observatory Center has completed
research on several instruments, including China's first UHF Doppler radar for wind measurement.
These products not only could substitute imported ones, but also form China's primary basic production.
The construction of the irregular-wave generator has already resulted in direct economic benefit of more
than Y 4 mIion. The generator could be built at a cost of only one sixth of the imported ones.
22.9       The credit has promoted the transformation to modern management in the following areas:
(a) Research projects could be determined according to production needs and the integration of
various disciplines, taking Into consideration the relationship between the basic and applied
research. The system of open evaluation, anmnal supervision and appraisal of adcievement
should be Implemented. The multidisciplinary team approach to research for before, during
and after production should be established.
(b)   Concerning personnel management, the main task is to bring the initiatve of the scientists
and tachnicians to fidl play in order to be fMly productive. The scientific and tecbological
pool should be organized to combine the senior, middle-level and young scientists, which
will foster the growth of young talents. The evaluation system for resarch pesonnel
should also be carried out. By using economic and political means, the research talents
should be divided to form two contigents, one for scientific research and the other for
product development
(c)   The operation and maintenance of equipment should be stengtened. The organization
should be improved; instruments and equipment serviced regularly; quality of laboraty
technicians be upgaed; and work environment improved. The systems of laboratory
regulations, operational inspection, and safe operation rules should be formulated.
(d)  Strengthen the collection and dissemination of Information; publish vaious kids of
publications; complete construction of the data bank for library informadon; and gradually
realize the computer network retrieval system. Promote the application of mic s
for scientific research to carry out data processing and esablish various kinds of simulation



- 18-
models and expert systems; and for administration of managerial activities: peronnel and
financial matters, equipment, etc.
22.10      The establishment of 10 county-level agrotechnical extension centers has been successfiu.
By making use of the simple broadcasting facilities, the extension centers have been able to carry out the
agrotechnical extension activities. It is welcomed by farmers because it directly demonstrates live
activities from videotapes, which is easy to learn and remember, thus accelerating the increase of grain
yields and economic returns.
22.11      Implementation ot the Pilot Project. By the end of June 30, 1992, the 10 extension
centers had disbursed $1,197,200, of which $1,116,300 is for equipment, $64,000 for traning centers
and $16,400 for technical assistance. The agrotechnical centers purchased 297 sets of simple broadcasting
equipment, film projectrs, slide projectors, microcomputers and all-terrain vehicles (about $40,000 of
equipment has yet to be delivered). Two students were sent abroad to study extension. The agrotechnical
ension centers also organized one overseas study tour, and the three extension consultants were invited
to advise on extension matters.
22.12      The 10 extension centers have used local counterpart fund amounting to Y 8,800,000 to
build new and renovate about 30,000 m2 of buildings, thereby changing the situation inthe past of relying
only 'on one's mouth and pair of legs' to carry out the extension work.
22.13      Beneficdal Returns of the Centers. The quality of the extension personnel and farmers has
been upgraded; and the transformation of research achievements to productive forces has been
accelerated, thus promoting the development of agriculture in the 10 counties. More than 2,000
technologies have been popularized; about 819 extension personnel, 20,000 county-level techncians and
520,000 farmers have been trained. Through strengthened extension, an increase of 3.094 million tons
of grain, and Y 4.331 billion of economic benefits from grain and economic crops have been obtained.
The newly established Extension Committees have played an important role in the extension work of the
various centers and in the agricultura production plans of various counties, including promotion of
linkages among research, teaching and extension Institutions.
22.14      Two important lessons should be taken into consideration. It is necessary to purchase all-
terrain vehicles, without trailers, for extension work because the area covered by a coutAy in China is
rather large. The film projectors and audiovisual equipment purchased were outdated. These two lessons
should be take into consideration in later projects.
23.  Major Lessons Lened
23.1       Through the preparation and implementation of the three World Bank projects in the past
10 years, we have learned many experiences and measures for implemendng agricultural education and
research projects following World Bank project implementation guidelines.
23.2       From the local point of view, we are clear about how to carry out preparatory work for the
feasibility studies of projects, and handling of main items such as: location of the project unit, housing
condition, technical considerations, engineering work to be carried out, couterpart fnds, repayment of
the loan, and drafting project plans; we fully understand the contents of project construction outlined in
the World Bank appraisal report, including civil works, procurement of equipment, training at home and



- 19 -
abroad, consultant services, amount of credit needed, credit repayment; and we have realized the
following aspects from project effectiven ,ss to completion regarding: project organization during
implementation, allocation of personnel, degree of difficulty of the project, important links and project
data, the main points for supervision and inspection, and most importantly, the standardized management
and supporting project data.
23.3       From the point of view of external relations, firstly, it is necessary to cooperate with World
Bank officials, listen attentively to the requirements and suggestions, without avoiding disputes and
expressing our own opinions; and secondly, cooperation among the cooperating units should be
strengthened; and, at the same time, it is necessary to make appropriate use of the consultative
organizations and to actively seek the support from international institutions, organizations and companies,
etc., thus ensuring the success of the project.
23.4       It does not mean that we do not have any problems now. It only means that we have an
overall view and experience of the entire process. If any new problems occurred, we could face them
calmly, and not assume a passive position. Our ability in seeking for the best interest and avoiding risls
has been strengthened. In future, we would be able to carry out an overall training program for project
personnel and to achieve computer management for future projects.
23.5       Owing to the credit and counterpart funds, and seven years of tireless construction, the
project has completed smoothly the civil works, procurement of equipment and Instumens, books and
journals, construction of laboratories, overseas training for professional and administrative personnel and
invitation of experts, thus improving the 15 research and information centers and the 10 countylevel
agrotehnical extension stations' working and living environments, raise the level of research and
extension to international standards, upgrading the quality and capability of research and extension
personnel, opmizing the organizational strucre, and establishing close links and coopation wi
scientsts in foreign countries. All these have rapidly upgraded the research level, and is reflected In the
increase of research projects and publications, expansion and widening of the research field, emergence
of many achievements, establishment of the extension system, speedy transformation of research findings
into farm practices, reaping of direct economic and social benefits, and development of many potenti
scientific and technological discoveries.
23.6       Along with the modernization of the research centers, and management work, many
important experiences and lessons have been leaned. These experiences and lessons could be used not
only for later projects, but also for China's reforms and opening to the outside world and in agricutural
economic development.
23.7       Overall, the Second Agricultural Research Project has been successful. According to the
fiute prospects of development of China's agriculture, which depends on science and technology and
education, the Government of China will continue to seek World Bank loans to establish agriculdtural
research units, and hope that the World Bank will continue to support us in the futurel



-20 -
PART II: STATISTICAL INFOMTION
1. RELATED BAN  LoANs AND CREDrTs
Year of
Credt No/Project Name          Purpose                                  approval    Sat
Cr. 1297-CA            Sten hening hher education and research in the  1982    Complded
Ag 8iculural  Educan   agriuta  sciences by prvdig civil works,
and Rsearc Project     equment and tehnial assistan  to 11 seloetd
(SDR 67.8 minion)      agoulual colleges and 7  esb instues.
La. 2121/Cr. 1167      S ening higher oducation to inocrase output   1981      Complded
University Develpment  and quality of grduate education and research in
Ptoiect                sience and engineeing and the imprvement of
(La. $100.0 minion/    planning  and  managemen  capabilities  of
SDR 81.4 million)      universities and the Miisty of Education. Poject
acivitie  inoluded impovwing   aff thaning,
prision of building, equipment and facilities,
stanein developing     ula and management
prcedurs at 28 unvesiies in 1S provinces.
La. 2444/Cr. 1500      Exndsion and up_gra    prokfsonal and middle  1984      Complded
Second  Agricultural  levd manpower by providing assistance to 12
Eduation Project       colleges, 8 taining and eension cenes, technical
(La. S45.3/            schoob and diance laning foilis.
SDR 22 miDion)
2. PROJECT TIMTABLE
.Date Planned       Date Revised   Date Actual
Identification                                 -                    -            01/00/83
Preparation                                05/01/83            04/16/83           04116/83
Appraisal                                  10/15/83            09/25/83           09/30/83
Negotiation                                07/15/84                 -             07/09/84
Board Approval                             08/30/84            08/28/84           09/11/84
Credit Signing                                            -         -             12/03/84
Credit Effectiveness                       03/25/85                 -             03/25/85
Project Completion                         12/31/89                 -             12/31/90
Credit Closing  I&                         06/30/90            06/30/90
06/30/91          06/30/92
La Project closing eteded 2 times.



-21 -
3e CREDIT DiSEuMvRS
IDA                  Cumulative Disbureements               Actual, or Latest
Fiscal              Actual la         Appraisal           Disbursement "  S of
Years                                 estimate              Appraisal Estlmto
1985                    2.4               1.3                       18S
1986                   12.3              8.8                        140
1987                   15.0              17.5                        86
1988                   16.7             22.5                         74
1989                   18.9             25.0                         76
1990                   22.5             25.0                         90
1991                   25.1             25.0                        100
1992                   29.0             25.0                        1t6
La    Higher actu  disbursements in US dollar terms than estimated at appraisal were possible bocase
of depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR



-22 -
4. PaOwCr IMPiMEM       TATION-KEY INDICATORS
Appraisal                                      I
Eoetmato             Actualo                comple-
Unit   Quantity    Cost   Quantity       Cost  tion
$8000               $,000
A. Cvil VsM 
Laboraties & offices               m!        59,671   11,534   71,000  12,800        120
ranm bulldl4 s                      Qa        3,140      480   10,300   2,275        328.2
Staff bausdng                       m        48,762   11,089   44,600   7,134         90
Construction subtotal               ma      111,573   23,103  125,900  22,210        113/b
Parm Development                    ha          463      330      n.d.   1,061
Subtotal                                                23.433            23.272
B. Eguimet
Laboratoty and Other Scientific
Equipment                         LS            -   15,470         -  22,451       14514
Naterials and Supplies              LS            -      740         -     389        521c
Office Equipment and Furniture    LS              -      655               942       143Lc
Parm Equipment                      LS            -      665               983       148/c
Subtotal                                                17.520            24.765       141/c
C.     LlbrarY Develomnent
Books and Publications              LS            -      870               500td      571&
Equipment and Supplies              LS            -      670               553        821c
Subtotal                                                  1.540                         ifl6k
D.     TSsim
Overseas Training
Degree                            years        55                144               2601k
Non-Degree                        months      517    1,342       534   2,585       193J&
Study Tours                       months
Internal Training
Degree                            years       106                143               135/b
Non-Degree                        months   2,783       791    3,162      785        991C
Study Tours                       months        -                  -       -
Confereneas and Seminars          US                   375               3751d  10010_c
Language Training                 months   1,596       271               27114  100IL4
Subtotal                                                 2.779             4.016       145/c
1. Teebhical Assistance
Program Review                      months       96    1,402        991a   585        421
Notes:     Quanty and cost of Key Indicatrs acuay procured under th pjet anrebased on data provded in
supevis onrepors, fina repou of is, informaion suppled by the P  and mission einats ofnmssng
daa. At d  the   o of the mission's visit data had not been supplid by 3 insbuus. Some dicrepncies occur
in cost and quant  informaon between that collated centaly and that of individual instihus. By and larw
this can be attributed to twanscription and arithmetic arors and the use of the original SAR exchange rate.
Ih Predominandy local consultancies.
& In terms of quantiy.
io In tams of cost
L4 Estimate.



-23 -
5. ftolPr COST AM FNACNG
A. Project Costs (Including Contingencies)
8 al) (5 aa)  (8 aa) (S7-a) (    ) ( ln) (S   ) (a) (l) (Sa) (S alr) (S -l.) Ct )     a)
Cvil "rue        255      4.5   29.8S    38.8  25.37   4.48   39.85    $8.8   19.8    3.5    U.S   127.2
E1pueno           2.85   19.4  22.25    45.8    3.5   22.1   25.4   50.0    $.I   2t.5   24.7  126.8
0.3    1.5    1.8    3.8    0.S    1.5    1.8    3.6    0.2    0.8    1.0    3.6
ftalul             0.9    2.5    3.4    6.7    1.5    3.3    4.8    9.5    1.3    2.7    4.0   21.8
motntaeo           -    1.7    1.7    3.3        _    0.64    0.64    1.3   0.29    0.29    0.58    2.17
121o          PA      9.14   59.0  11.a2 50.41   IL.O2  62.49   125.2   24.8  28.78    53.6  294.6
baud amp.auamg.FB ud~u IaSAU auqtfc   wTubA1cciMahbac.w udtcd_.1505L.B7  Coat_ auiu
*  emncsda        17.53% aln  sqenibat.
Lb *19es.
B. Project ranidn
($ million)
Expenditure                           Planned                     Revised                   Actual
category                     GOC      IDA   Total       COC       IDA   Total        Cc      IDA   Total
Civil works                 28.8         -    28.8    28.8          -    28.8    19.8        3.5    23.3
Equipment ]A                  2.2    20.1    22.3        2.2    25.4    27.6        3.4    22.3    25.7
Overseas tralning               -     1.4       1.4        -      4.8      4.8        -      2.7      2.7
Local training                1.7        -      1.7      1.7        -      1.7      1.3        -      1.3
Technical assist.               -     1.5       1.5        -    0.64    0.64        0.3      0.3      0.6
Unallocated                   1.3     2.0      3.3       1.3      0.0      1.3        -        -        -
Total                  34.0    25.0    59.0    34.0   30.84   64.84    24.8   28.78    53.6
Note: Revised eimas costed at 1984 exunge rates, aftallsowing for depreciation of US dolar agait th SDR.
JA Inludes Amndng fo books, pubications and ibry developmnt.



-24-
6. PROJc 1!ULMS
A. Direct Benefits
Jobs created                         SAR estimate         Estimate at closing
Staff training
Overseas degrees la                        25                        56
Local degrees L&                           53                         70
Overseas study visits                      94                        89
Local study visits                        240                     1,037
La Graduae and Postgaduate.
B. Economic lInpad
Not Applicable
C. M1mdalI hIpat
Not Applicable
D. Studies
Not Applicable



- 2S -
7. SrATUS OF COVENAmN
Proct                                         LeAe of
agmeent              Summaq Description      Compliance    Complianco Dat      Remark
3.01 (b)      Project Implmention Units  O.K.          1985          PlUs not alabishod at all
(iii)         eablished at each pject                                agtechnicens.
center and stations
3.06          Select  candidates  for O.K              -
fellowships & language
8taining
3.07          Submission  of  research  O.K.           8/31 each year
progams and TA plans
4.01 (o)      Submisaioofaudited acounrs  O.K.         6 months ater
and auditos repots                       end of each
financia year
4.02          Facite and equipment to be  O.K.         1985          Partial compliance, in that
opersted and maintained in                             equipment  operated  and
accordance  with  sound                                maintaed adequaly to date,
prcti, and suffwient fumds                             but insufficient prwvision made
to  be provided  for such                              for funding.
puposes



-26-
8. MsON DATA AND STAFF INPuTs
A. Mison Data
Type of                     Date    go. of   Nan/days   Special-  Performance  Trend   Type of
meision                    (Mo/pr) persons  in field  isation La  rating lb           L      problem
Preparation              March 1983   4           -                                             -
Appraisal               October 1988  5            -           -
SUervalsons
1                        April 1985   3           18       A,N1,I          I          -         -
2                        March 1986   2           7          EP             1         2         -
3                      February 1987  3           1S         A,E            1         2         -
4                        Aprl 1988   1            15          a             1         2         -
5                        April 1989   2                   A, Extn.          1         2         -
6                         May 1990    2           26         A,A            1         2         -
7                         May 1991    3           21        A,E.A           1         2
Completion              October 1992  2           16         A,1
Lg     A - Agpitu e;  = Economist; da. e Extension Specialis I - Insftfions; H   HoriculturmlistI     Irigion
Egineer, F - PrtectOftmw.
t    Perfonmance Radng:1 = problem ftve or minor probem, 2   moderte problns, 3 - major problms.
Lt     Trend: 1 - improving; 2    stadonary; 3 = deeriorating.
B. Staff Inputs
(sws)
Stage of
project cycle          FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92   FY93  Total
identification/
preparation          28.7   4.9      -     -    -              .            -                  33.6
Appraisal                 -  69.6      -      -    -       -    -      -      *    -        -   69.6
Pegotiatione              -   0.1   1.9       -    -       -    -      -      -    -         -    2.0
lending
OperationJ                -   6.1   6.4       -    -       -    -      -      -    -         -   12.6
Supervision               -      -   7.9  12.5  7.3   11.8  6.1   6.5   10.9  0.3           -   63.4
PAD                       -     -   1.6   0.6    -         -    -      -      -    -      2.3    2.3
Project
completion              -     -                                                   -     8.0    8.0
Total            28.7  HA 0        1 13 1  7.3   11 8  Id    LA   JLl  0.3   ll4    a.o



-27 -
LIST OF AGRICUL                     RESEARCH INSTUEAND
AGROTECHNCAL EXTENSION STATIONS
A.   Project Research Institutes
1.   Agricultural Crops Basic Research Center, Beijing
2.   Aquatic Products Research Center, Beijing
3.   Grassland Research Center, Hohot, Inner Mongolia
4. Veterinary Research Center, Harbin, Heilongjiang
5.   Xinjiang Special Products Research Center, Shihezi, Xinjiang
6. Cotton, Wheat and Corn Research Center, Anyang, Henan
7.   Potato Research Center, Enshi, Hubei
8. Arid and Semi-Arid Research Center, Wugong, Shaanxi
9.   Forestry Resources Monitoring Center, Beijing
10. Water Conservancy Information Center, Beijing
11. Tropical Crops Library and Information Center, Danxian, Guangdong
12. Meteorology Observation Center, Beijing
13. Water Conservancy Research Center, Beijing
14. Nanjing Hydraulic Research Center, Nanjing, Jiangsu
15. North-West Hydrological Training Center, Wugong, Shaanxi
B.   Project Extesison Stations
Agrotechnical extension stations were established at the following locations:
1.   Wuqing, Tianjin
2.   Weinan, Shaanxi
3.   Hengxian, Guangxi
4.   Shanshan, Xinjiang
5.   Zunyi, Guizhou
6.   Xinmin, Liaoning
7.   Huaxian, Henan
8.  Jiangling, Hubei
9.   Shunchang, Fujian
10. Beijing



-28 -
RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS BASED ON DEVELO
OF A NEW COTrON VARIETY
1.           There are already firm indications that the equipment supplied to the Cotton,
Wheat and Curn Ititute at Anyang Is assisting in the development of new varieties. In
particular, the new fiber testing equipment is much more accurate and has increaied the speed
of fiber testig many dmes over conventional methods that require visual te ion. If it
iS assumed that a new cotton variety developed at the Instit in the later years of the project
has an income geneting advantage of 5 percent over comparable existing varieties and that it
is adopted by 50 percent of cotton growers over a period of five years, this single development
would resut in an overall project rate of return of 21.2 percent.
2.           The cost and benefit streams are indicated in the table below:
Year                          Incremental benefit                         Costs
-($--------    3t million) --------------
1                                      -                                   14.5
2                                      _                                   29.3
3                                                                           9.9
4                                      _                                    7.8
5                                      _                                    4.3
6                                      -                                    5.1
7                                      -                                    2.6
8                                                                           3.9
9                                      5                                    2.0
10                                    10                                    2.0
11                                    20                                    2.0
12                                    40                                    2.0
13                                    40                                    2.0
14                                    40                                    2.0
15-20                                 40                                    2.0
IRR  -  21.22



-29 -
- Prsent yield 0.8 tl/a, new variety 0.84 t/ha (= 5% Iocremena  Value of
Production).
- Cotton valued at $1,000/t.
Incremental value of production = $50.0/ha.
- Area of Producdon at fll development aslng 50% of area uses new variety
= 2.57 million ha.
- Present output from this area = 2.05 million tons.
- Incremental output (+S%) m 100,000 tons.
- Value of incremental output at full development = $100.0 million.
nosts
3.           Anna project costs as incurred have been used, together with an allowance of
$2.0 million for incremental  ng/maince cos after completion.



- 30-
LIST OF SOPHSTICATED EQUIP    SUPPLIED
(Items over $10,000)
No.           Equipment type                      Cost    Date       Use
($'000)   setup  hrs/week
Grassland Research Institute. Hohot
1.   Scanning UV-visible spectrophotometer         26      3186       4.8
2.   850 Fluorescence spectrophotometer            27      8/86       2.0
3.   Gas chromatograph                             39      8/87       4.0
4.   High performance liquid chromatograph         76     1188       5.0
5.   Thin layer chromatograph scanner              12     12/88       2.0
6.   Atomic absorption spectrophotometer           47      3/86       2.5
7.   Grain quality analysis meter                  25     10/86       1.0
8.   Automatic Kjeldahl nitrogen analyzer          13     12/85       2.5
9.   Seed tester                                   12        86   defect
10.  Fiber extraction system                       10     12/85       1.4
11. Flow injection analyzer                        21      3/86       4.2
12.  HiSh-speed refrigerated centrifuge            10     12/85       1.4
13.  Preparative ultracentrifuge                   39      3/86   repair
14.  Salinity bridge                               35      5/86       1.0
15.  Multiphor electrophoresis system              16      7/90       1.5
16.  Hi-speed automatic polarimeter                16      6/89         -
17. Computer controlled automatic titrator         15      6/89       0.5
18.  Large shaking apparatus                       31         -         -
19.  Universal photomicroscope                     13        85        20
20.  Research microscope                           20        85        15
21.  Portable photosynthesis system                23      7/87       0.5
22.  Steady state porometer                        11      8/87       0.5
23.  Image processing system                      323        89       2.0
24.  Side-by-side seed germination chamber         13        89       2.0
25.  Small video system                            76        85       3.0
26.  Laser precision system                        20        90        40
27.  Microcomputer system                          39        85        20
Southern Potgto Research Center. Enshi
1.   Universal research microscope               34.6      9/85         2
2.   Automatic Kjeldahl analyzer                 14.9      3/86         5
3.   Multi-environmental chamber                 10.2      4/86         5
4.   li-speed refrigerated centrifuge            11.9      2/88         1
S.   Ultra centrifuge                            38.9      4/87         1
6.   Portable photosynthesis system              23.4     11/85         1



-31 -
No.           Equipment type                      Cost    Date       Use
($'000)   setup  hrs/week
7.   Plant growth chamber                        26.2      6187         2
8.   Potato slice soaking system                 80.6      5/86        10
9.   Potato chips frying system                 172.3      5/86        10
10.  Packing machine                             58.3      5/86        10
11.  Refrigerated truck                          29.8      7/87         5
12.  Light truck                                 18.7      7187         5
13.  Forklift                                    15.7      7/87         5
14.  Automatic polarimeter                       16.6     12/87         1
15.  Automatic amino acid analyzer               66.5      5/91         1
16.  UV-visible spectrophotometer                20.5      9/91        10
17.  Laboratory glassware washer                 12.8      4/91         2
18.  Atomic absorption spectrophotometer         10.8      6/91         2
19.  High perfomance liquid chromatograph        48.5     11/91         1



- 32 -
No.               Equipment Type                             Cost ($'000)
Cotton. Wheat and Corn Research Center. Anyang
1.   Mobile grain dryer                                          20.1
2.   Scanning UV-visible spectrophotometer                        17.0
3.   Computerized gas chromatograph                               23.7
4.   High performance liquid chromatograph                        40.2
5.   High performance amino analyzer                              45.0
6.   Thin layer chromatograph scanner                             13.8
7.   Multiphor electrophoresis syatem                             19.3
8.   Atomic absorption spectrophotometer                          33.2
9.   Sequential scanning plasma argon spec.                       79.6
10.  IR/near IR grain quality analyzer                            32.7
11.  Wet digestion system                                         10.7
12.  Automatic Kjeldahl nitrogen analyzer                         15.6
13.  Seed tester                                                  12.8
14.  Flow injection analyzer                                      21.6
15.  Hi-speed refrigerated centrifuge                             23.5
16.  Electronic analytical balance                                12.7
17.  Electronic precision balance                                 17.2
18. Scanning electron microscope                                  71.7
19.  Universal research microscope                               34.6
20.  Universal photomicroscope                                    13.9
21. Research microscope                                           41.0
22.  Microscope television system                                 16.2
23. Multi unit chamber                                            53.2
24.  Plant growth chamber                                        117.2
25.  Plant growth chamber                                         21.9
26.  Portable area meter                                          18.4
27.  Portable photosynthesis system                               23.4
28.  Plain paper (enlarge & reduce) copier                        13.8
29.  Super Gemini + microcomputer system                          47.7
30.  Spinlab Hi-volume fiber test system                         197.1
31.  Tool carrier & precision planter                             61.6
32.  Tool carrier and spare parts                                 21.2
33.  Tool carrier and spare parts                                 22.2
34.  Plot combine "Nurserymaster" & parts                         43.0
35.  Steady state porometer                                       11.9
36.  Offset duplicator                                            25.6
37.  Plant growth chamber                                         20.2
38.  Combine harvester & stem shredder                            20.5
39.  Tractor                                                      13.8
40.  Tractor                                                      11.7
41.  Computer with option                                         27.2
42.  HPLC accessories                                             28.7
43.  Ginning workshop                                            136.7
44.  Insect activity meter & accessories                          50.1
45.  Plant physiology analysis system                             71.8
46.  Video recording system - rhizotron                           27.4



- 33 -
No.               Equipment Type                             Cost ($'000)
47.  Gluten testing apparatus                                     14.4
48.  Uster Tensorapid tensile test equipment                      98.2
49.  Uster Tester 3 testing & analyzer                           138.7
50.  Rapid moisture tester                                        58.4
51.  Thermostat humidifier device                                 58.2
52.  Reichert Ultratome & accessories                             51.5
53.  Small spinning test workshop                                170.0
54.  Separate hanging air conditioner                             11.7
55.  Computer editing system                                      72.1
56.  Video editing system & accessories                           16.1
57.  Laboratory pilot mill                                        12.0
58.  Offset press                                                 10.2
59.  Mass select detector                                         66.0
60.  Compact mobile unit                                          62.0
61.  Digital program controlled exchanger                         59.1
62.  Carding machine                                              19.7
63.  Mixer measuring HEAS type 50                                 10.8
64.  Microcomputer system                                         32.2



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN
MONGOUA                                                           ch-vs'                               
>v KYRGYZSTAN                               5 t_                                                                                                             
UZB  KISTAN
TAJIKbTAN                                                                                                                        Ha l
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                           O           fJ 
*  RAR.M CENTERS: o-                                                                                                                                                                        OF
IAt Yr C                                                                                                                                                                               KOREA
2 Aquak frodsudw Rearch Ce W                                                                                                                  O
S GrOssW.W ftgesad, C'usin
4 Vo*timory R eeoord CouS-                                                                                                                                                                           * M   -
=SProdoft                                                                                    t 
6 C=nWheoI,Com                                                                                \                                                                                                    )          I'
RueosCue                                                               - _- '-h                            _              P >X t,                                                                     : 
a to Ruttat d R. *r .HC                                                                                                                                                              Eo CG
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=  a $ 0H
* kW and Sem,A
10 WaerCousewvwoy infom,oIio
C~tOC                                                                                Aw 
tifon                                                                                                                                       Wh. Cne_ 
13 W      =erConwvoncyr                                    0                                                                   A?
1<  eo,Cia                    NEPAL                   ,rt
15 Nowl+w Hydrogkoirt
TrolutuCener                    CHINA                                              4t                 J
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                                  -J'
a       tRESEARCH CENTERS                                               I                                                                                                           PCEN
o      AGROTECHNtCAL EXTENSION STATIONS                               r-!;o 0                                                                                                       OCEAN
o      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                    M .s      map hm ton    p  2
~NATIONALCAPITAL                                                                                                                                                           bTh  W"    wAn ks sIff
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                   S                           -eot                                                                                     n           ofnd so far the
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                            KHOtGONG,UK,                                     tw"l wo ofnnob' os ted
Ns o                                          aco *x oco noo ~< eo 5 { V SDNh $od  b bn   .t  Chu-
c                               p                         o '                                                  xo                                                    PHIIUPPNES  o---                     w  o
I     p      p                                                                                                                                        ouchbsosuudories 5~~~~~~REP  sto  4
so50   0  0     20     0     00    50ss



