Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1512 
Operation Name 
SENEGAL-POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT 
(PRSC 2) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Other social services 
(40%);Sub-national government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P091051 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE & ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 30, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 25, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 15, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Senegal is located on West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and Monetary 
Union (WAMEU).  With a population estimated at about 10 million, its economy is dominated by a few 
strategic sectors, including groundnut, fisheries, and services.  The informal sector accounts for about 
60 percent of its economy. Its rural economy frequently suffers from drought, leading to high emigration 
and higher poverty rates in rural areas. About half of the population lives in cities, principally Dakar. 
Over the past years, Senegal has enjoyed a stable political climate, and has remained largely 
unaffected by regional instability. Confirming the relatively strong economic performance over the past 
decade, Senegal’s performance in 2004 looks good with a GDP growth rate projected at 6.0 percent 
and the absence of major macroeconomic imbalances. The overall fiscal deficit, including grants, is 
projected to have increased marginally at 2.7 percent of GDP in 2004
,
reflecting higher domestically-
financed government spending on PRSP priorities, accelerated use of HIPC resources carried over 
from previous years, and additional spending on infrastructure.  Economic prospects for the 2005-2007 
period are positive: GDP growth rate is expected to average 6 percent with an inflation rate under 2 
percent while the current account deficit (excluding grants) is projected to remain approximately at the 
current level of 7.0 percent of GDP. Fiscal policy should remain prudent even though the overall fiscal 
deficit (excluding all grants) may expand due to HIPC initiative expenditures and an increase in 
investment spending toward infrastructure in urban areas... 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overarching objectives of the proposed PRSC series are to support the implementation of 
Senegal’s PRSP and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and carry out its own 
development and poverty reduction programs. PRSCs will focus on policies and reforms with the 
highest poverty impact and where IDA has a comparative advantage. Also given the 
comprehensiveness of the PRSP and the high cost of its implementation, PRSCs will be designed to 
assist the Government in establishing priorities and implementing a rolling core reform program. 
 
More specifically, the objective of the PRSCs during the 2004-06 period are to: (a) improve the 
effectiveness and transparency of the national budget process and expenditure management, including 
at the decentralization levels, as the main instrument to achieve national development goals; (b) 
support PRSP outcomes in terms of improves living conditions of the poor within the PRSP time 
horizon.  During the initial phase, to ensure selectivity, the emphasis is given on improving the delivery 
Page  2
of public services, notably through the rationalization of budgetary and financial procedures within the 
State, special attention to health outcomes. Gradually, the PRSC series also aims at giving special 
attention to better employment perspective, and improved living conditions of vulnerable groups. 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed PRSC-II concentrates on areas where such support is expected to provide the greatest 
value added to the ongoing effort undertaken by the Government and its development partners. It will 
aim at strengthening the three cross-cutting and institutional issues that were emphasized in PRSC-I:, 
including (i) strengthening budgetary and financial reforms of the State, (ii) improving health services 
delivery, and (iii) enhancing financial decentralization because these three areas constitute the 
backbone of the PRS and they are already well advanced in terms of their implementation. 
Concurrently, in view of progress achieved, PRSC-II would also expand its coverage to two additional 
areas that are perceived as crucial for PRSP implementation in the country. These two areas are the 
following: (i) promoting wealth creation through the support of ongoing reforms in the labor market and 
of improvements in the judiciary system; and (ii) increasing the protection of vulnerable groups.  In so 
doing, the PRSC agenda will gradually strengthen the basic elements of the investment climate and 
reinforce a social protection strategy and poverty alleviation of the poorest segments of the population, 
which are long-term objectives for Senegal. 
The content of the proposed PRSC-II is the outcome of a highly intensive participatory processes 
between first the World Bank’s team and the PRSP Secretariat and subsequently all development 
partners, including other donors and representatives of the civil society. 
The PRSC instrument has a number of benefits over the traditional combination of adjustments credits 
and projects operations. These benefits include: (i) the programmatic approach increases Senegal's 
ownership of its development programs, strengthens budgetary institutions and reduces transactions 
costs in delivery of external assistance; and (ii) the multi-sectoral approach promotes collaboration and 
coordination while maximizing the impact on poverty reduction. In addition, the reform program to be 
supported by PRSC- II is expected to contribute to the PRSP's ultimate goals, with greater effects on 
the following areas: (i) improved budgeting and public expenditure management; and (ii) improved 
basic services delivery in the regions, specifically in the health sector. 
 
The three main risks to achieving the objectives of the credit are vested interests, vulnerability to 
external shocks, and weak capacity.  All of these risks could lead to a smaller-than-estimated poverty 
impact of the policies supported by PRSCs.  Vested interests can represent important reform obstacles, 
notably in view of the forthcoming elections in the country. Influential groups may challenge PRSC-
supported policies, notably in the decentralization process and labor reforms, resulting in a slow-down 
of the reform process, and policies may be subject to reversal after their implementation. Under the 
PRSC, these different risks arising from vested interests are mitigated by the fact that all policy 
measures are implemented before credit approval and that each operation is embedded in a medium-
term policy framework. Owing to the close link between subsequent PRSCs, the likelihood that reforms 
are being followed through and policies are sustained is being enhanced. The commitment of the 
government to programmatic support through PRSCs combined with the financial importance of the 
Bank’s assistance enhances the likelihood that interests of narrow groups can be overcome.   
While the risk of macroeconomic collapse, through unsustainable inflation or through sustained 
negative growth, is minimal, there is the more insidious risk of stalled growth and/or vulnerability to 
external shocks, such the 2002 drought when GDP growth declined to 1.1 percent or the recent locust 
invasion.  In that context, the recent increase in oil prices can negatively affect the Senegalese 
economy as evidenced by recent estimates provided by the BCEAO.  Not only is Senegal largely 
dependent on oil imports, but also important sectors of activity such as the electricity sector and the 
chemical industry are highly energy intensive.  
Page  3
Achieving the credit objectives could become more difficult as a result of weak administrative capacity 
in Senegal and slow program implementation. This risk is the highest at the sectoral level and in local 
governments even though the authorities have been allocating increasing resources to this objective, 
especially in their PRS.  To mitigate this risk, the Bank with other donors is giving technical and 
financial support to enhance capacity at the local level and will consolidate its strategy toward local 
communities in a new CDD approach in FY06.   
4. Environment Aspects 
 
In terms of environmental safeguards, it is proposed that the credit be rated as structural adjustment credit (SAC) 
governed under the Operational Directive 8.60, and will not require an environmental assessment rating, as was 
PRSC-I. 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
30 
 Total 
30 
 
Contact Point      The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Task Manager: Jacques Morisset, Lead Economist 
Telephone : 202-443-0127 
Email: jmorisset@worldbank.org 
 
