Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2013 
Operation Name 
Senegal: Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-II) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Other social services 
(40%);Sub-national government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P091051 
Borrower(s) 
SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
December 5, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 29, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
March 28, 2006 
Country and Sector Background 
Senegal is located on West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and Monetary Union 
(WAMEU).  With a population estimated at about 10 million, its economy is dominated by a few strategic 
sectors, including groundnut, fisheries, and services.  The informal sector accounts for about 60 percent of its 
economy. Its rural economy frequently suffers from drought, leading to high emigration and higher poverty 
rates in rural areas. About half of the population lives in cities, principally Dakar. Over the past years, 
Senegal has enjoyed a stable political climate, and has remained largely unaffected by regional instability.  
Confirming the relatively strong economic performance over the past decade, Senegal’s performance in 2004 
looks good with a GDP growth rate exceeding 6.0 percent and the absence of major macroeconomic 
imbalances. The overall fiscal deficit, including grants, is projected to have increased marginally at 3.3 
percent of GDP in 2004
,
reflecting higher domestically-financed government spending on PRSP priorities, 
accelerated use of HIPC resources carried over from previous years, and additional spending on 
infrastructure.  In spite of the recent increase in international oil prices, economic prospects for the 2005-
2007 period are positive: GDP growth rate is expected to average 6 percent with an inflation rate under 2 
percent while the current account deficit (excluding grants) is projected to remain approximately at the 
current level of 7.0 percent of GDP. Fiscal policy should remain prudent even though the overall fiscal 
deficit (excluding all grants) may expand due to HIPC initiative expenditures and an increase in investment 
spending toward infrastructure in urban areas. 
 Operation 
Objectives 
Starting in 2004, the current Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy has planned a series of three PRSCs that 
should support the implementation of Senegal’s PRSP and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design 
and carry out its own development and poverty reduction programs. More specifically, the primary objective 
of the PRSCs are to: (a) improve the effectiveness and transparency of the national budget process and 
expenditure management, including at the decentralization levels, as the main instrument to achieve national 
development goals; (b) promote the development of a conducive environment for private investment, notably 
in the areas of the labor market and justice; and (c) support PRSP outcomes in terms of improves living 
conditions of the poor within the PRSP time horizon, with a focus on the delivery of better health services.  
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The PRSC-II concentrates on areas where such support is expected to provide the greatest value-added to the 
ongoing effort undertaken by the Government and its development partners. It aims at strengthening the three 
cross-cutting and institutional issues that were emphasized in PRSC-I, including (i) strengthening budgetary 
Page  2
and financial reforms of the State, (ii) improving health services delivery, and (iii) enhancing financial 
decentralization because these three areas constitute the backbone of the PRS and they are already well 
advanced in terms of their implementation. Concurrently, in view of progress achieved, PRSC-II would also 
expand its coverage to two additional areas that are perceived as crucial for PRSP implementation in the 
country. These two areas are the following: (i) promoting wealth creation through the support of ongoing 
reforms in the labor market and of improvements in the judiciary system; and (ii) increasing the protection of 
vulnerable groups.  In so doing, the PRSC agenda will gradually strengthen the basic elements of the 
investment climate and reinforce a social protection strategy and poverty alleviation of the poorest segments 
of the population, which are long-term objectives for Senegal. 
The PRSC instrument has a number of benefits over the traditional combination of adjustments credits and 
projects operations. These benefits include: (i) the programmatic approach increases Senegal's ownership of 
its development programs, strengthens budgetary institutions and reduces transactions costs in delivery of 
external assistance; and (ii) the multi-sectoral approach promotes collaboration and coordination while 
maximizing the impact on poverty reduction. In addition, the reform program to be supported by PRSC- II is 
expected to contribute to the PRSP's ultimate goals, with greater effects on the following areas: (i) improved 
budgeting and public expenditure management; and (ii) improved basic services delivery in the regions, 
specifically in the health sector. 
 
Financing 
The Credit amount is $30 million, to be available for disbursement in a single tranche upon credit 
effectiveness. 
 
Environment Aspects 
The Bank has determined that the specific actions supported under the proposed PRSC-II are not expected to 
have a significant effect on Senegal’s environment and natural resources.  Although PRSC-II provides some 
support to measures aiming at strengthening the Government’s capacity for environmental and natural 
resource management such as the development of MTEF for the Ministry of Environment, most of the 
Bank’s support has been directed through other projects.  The Bank has a long history of supporting the 
Government in its effort to protect the environment.  Senegal is confronted with two main environmental 
issues: (i) degradation of its natural capital (soil, forest cover, fisheries, biodiversity); and (ii) pollution from 
poorly regulated industries, mainly around Dakar.  Both these issues have direct linkages with poverty since 
the degradation of natural reduces undermines rural livelihoods, while pollution from unregulated industries 
affects the health of neighboring communities, and in some instances directly degrades the resource base.  To 
address these issues, the Government prepared a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1993-1997, 
which provided a conceptual framework for environmental management and the creation of an inter-
ministerial council for environmental issues (CONSERE).  Senegal also passed a new Environmental Act on 
January 15, 2001, including provisions for the use of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA).  The PRS 
has given significant attention to environmental issues, especially by requiring additional support to: (i) the 
protection and development of forests and watersheds; and (ii) implementation of development and agro-
forestry programs. 
 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The implementation of the PRSC-II was subject to the achievement of a set of prior actions.  Such 
achievements, together with other reforms and improvement in monitoring indicators, indicate that 
several key program benchmarks have been met in the areas of fiduciary reforms, decentralization, 
delivery of health services, wealth creation, and the protection of vulnerable groups.  
Page  3
The decision as to whether IDA will proceed with PRSC-III will be contingent on satisfactory progress 
in the implementation of the PRS, as documented by a review by stakeholders of the PRS progress 
report in 2005 and the finalization of the new PRSP in the first semester of 2006.  In addition, it is 
proposed that actions satisfactory to IDA in the five priority areas will serve as triggers for proceeding 
with PRSC-III.  Their compliance will form the basis of whether the Bank will proceed with the 
subsequent operation. In the case that these actions are not met, the Bank could either delay the 
operation, or reduce the amount or modify the program, where justified.
 
Benefits and Risks 
Risks 
 
There are several risks associated with PRSC-II: (i) some of the reforms supported by the Credit might 
encounter resistance from vested interests, especially in the context of the forthcoming elections in 2006 and 
2007, but Government has in the past shown determination in overcoming such special interests; (ii) 
Government efforts to build broad consensus for reforms through consultative processes may sometimes 
slow down the pace of reforms; however, the benefit of this approach clearly outweighs the risk; (iii) the 
utilization of PRSC funds is determined by the budget process and there is a risk that resource allocation may 
not be fully consistent with the PRS; nonetheless, the Government has adopted an open and participative 
budget process, including an annual Public Expenditure Review (PER) which helps to align and monitor 
resource allocation and its consistency with the PRS; (iv) the Country Financial Accountability Assessment 
(CFAA) and the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) identified significant fiduciary risks, 
which the proposed reform agenda is meant to address; (v) capacity for program implementation and service 
delivery at the central and district levels is weak; however, programs are in place to strengthen capacity in 
key areas; (vi) although Senegal is in its first phase of implementing strategies in the labor and justice areas 
as well as in the protection of vulnerable groups, the sequencing approach proposed in the PRSC program 
should help to mitigate the risk of policy indecision; and (vii) Senegal may face exogenous shocks such as 
climatic changes or locust invasions. 
 
Benefits 
 
By focusing on economy-wide policy and institutional issues, the proposed PRSC-II is expected to help 
Senegal to implement its PRS in three ways: First, the reforms supported by the operation will help maintain 
economic growth and improve living conditions for the population.  Second, the program associated with the 
Credit will enhance Government’s ownership and functionality in policy planning and budget management, 
thereby, helping it make progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Third, the 
reforms associated with the Credit will promote coordination and collaboration within the Government and 
among donors, and lead to a comprehensive approach in the delivery of basic social services. 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
There has been no recent update in Senegal’s poverty figures. The Government continues to rely on the 
results derived from the Household Survey and Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire completed in 
2001/2002.  On this basis, it was shown that growth had a significant impact on poverty since the share of the 
population living in poverty decreased from 67.9 percent in 1994 (61.4 percent of households) to 57.1 
percent in 2001 (48.5 percent of households).  The decrease was larger in Dakar and other urban centers than 
in rural areas, and resulted in more job creation than in the past.  Despite these positive trends, about two-
thirds of households continue to identify themselves as poor and one-third of poor and non-poor alike feel 
that poverty has substantially increased in their community over the last five years.  On the positive side, half 
of the Senegalese population is hopeful that poverty will decrease in the next five years. 
 
Page  4
The proposed PRSC program is expected to support Senegal in its effort to alleviate poverty through at 
least four channels.  First, it aims at promoting wealth creation through specific actions in the labor and 
justice sectors, which are viewed as two of the most important obstacles to private sector development.  The 
better functioning of justice and the increased availability of skilled labor, with more appropriate regulations, 
should help improve the investment climate and mobilize further private investment.  The expansion of 
private activities will then fuel economy growth, which in turn is expected to reduce the poverty level in 
Senegal. 
The second channel seeks to improve the effectiveness of public spending.  By supporting 
budgetary and fiduciary reforms, the PRSC program will help to increase the allocative and operational 
efficiencies of public expenditures in sectors such as infrastructure and social services, which are 
directly linked to the growth and poverty alleviation agenda.  The emphasis on decentralization also 
responds to the need to strengthen the delivery of public services in the regions and local communities, 
where can be found the highest percentage of poor households. The third channel supported by the 
PRSC program consists of improving the stock of human capital, notably through a set of actions that 
should yield to better access and quality of health services.  Over time, a healthier work force will also 
increase labor productivity and, thus, enhance economic growth. The focus on pregnant women and 
young children should also reduce poverty levels and inequalities. The fourth channel aims at improving 
directly the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups: orphans, single pregnant women, 
handicapped, and beggars.  These groups, in reason of their low income levels, are often set aside from 
national and sectoral programs, justifying a targeted action to include them.  
 
Contact Point:  
Jacques Morisset, 
Lead Economist 
Telephone: 202-443-0127 
Email: jmorisset@worldbank.org 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
