Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4158-SE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 26, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4158-SE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has issued a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 
dated October 1, 2005 (hereinafter called the PRSP), describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to promote rapid and sustainable development to reduce 
poverty;  
(B) 
the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
October 1, 2005, describing therein a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to reduce poverty in its territory by strengthening public sector 
management and governance by way of fiduciary reforms; implementing its 
decentralization process, including the financial and human resources in relation 
thereto; increasing access of its population to basic health services through human 
and financial reorganization of the sector; promoting wealth creation through the 
support of ongoing reforms in the labor market and in the judicial system; and 
improving the socio economic conditions of the most vulnerable groups through 
the implementation of a new national social protection strategy (hereinafter called 
the Program); declaring the Borrower
’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; and 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in a single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
Page  3
-
2
-
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency 
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower 
shall be made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably select.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request,
 
on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the term “Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s 
Page  4
-
3
-
fiscal year beginning on January 1 in any one calendar year and ending on December 31 
in the same calendar year. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in CFA Francs 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Credit into said account, an equivalent 
amount is accounted for in the Borrower
’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association.  
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
Page  5
-
4
-
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2016 
and ending January 15, 2046.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on January 15, 2026 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, 
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
Page  6
-
5
-
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower
’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
Section 3.03. Upon the Association
’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rue René N’Diaye 
B.P 4017 
Dakar 
Senegal 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINIFINANCES 
 3203G 
  221-821-1630 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Abdoulaye 
Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Madani 
M. 
Tall 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths
’
or
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
Page  12
-
11
-
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, of the following: 
Fiduciary Reforms 
The Borrower has:  
1. 
prepared, on a programmatic basis (Medium Term Expenditure 
Framework), a 2006 budget proposal for at least four ministry departments 
including the ministry of health has been prepared;  
2. 
adopted the recommendations derived from the financial and technical 
audit of the wage bill in the public sector, which was completed in October 2005; 
3. 
finalized a draft revised procurement code prepared on the basis of the 
recommendations derived from the recent evaluation study, and circulated the 
draft within the Government; 
4. 
carried out a study on the rationalization of its internal and external control 
systems; 
5. 
implemented a new civil service remuneration strategy, including the 
implementation of a pilot program for the decentralization of health sector staff . 
Decentralization 
The Borrower has: 
6. 
prepared a draft 2006 consolidated investment budget for the education 
and health sectors taking into account the decentralization of the budget 
execution.  
Health 
The Borrower has: 
Page  14
-
13
-
7. 
increased the DPT3 (Diphtheria Polio Tetanus 3) immunization coverage 
to at least 80% in 2005; 
8. 
produced statistical reports for years 2003 and 2004, as well as for the first 
semester of 2005, on the basis of the data collected from its health information 
management system (SIG). 
Wealth Creation 
The Borrower has: 
9. 
started the activities of the fund for vocational training (FONDEF) as 
evidenced by the funding of training programs in at least 10 enterprises; 
10. 
established a unit responsible within the Ministry of Justice for the 
coordination of the implementation of the Borrower
’s justice sector program; 
11. established 
the 
Commission Nationale contre la Corruption, 
provided 
budget allocations for its operations in 2005 and 2006, appointed its secretary 
general, and provided adequate facilities. 
Vulnerable Groups 
The Borrower has: 
12. 
adopted a coherent and integrated social protection strategy for the most 
vulnerable groups identified in the PRSP (including monitoring indicators and a 
public expenditure review).
 
