A/W &èSd 7 -5,
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-   ;   :   .   ;   ',,  ..    .  ; 
Report No.  10732-NOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINDGOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 10, 1993
Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(October 1992)
Currency Unit     =      Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$1.00                  DH 9.00
DH 1.00                  US$0.111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIC         -     Agricultural Investment Code
ASAL-II     -      Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASIL        -    Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
CNCA        -     National Bank for Agricultural Credit
CNCP        -     National Committee for Project Coordination
CPE         -     Committee for Environmental Protection
CSP         -     Project Monitoring Committee
DB          -     Directorate of Budget
DEPP        -     Directorate for Public Enterprises and Participation
DER         -     Directorate for Rural Equipment
FDA         -     Agricultural Development Fund
LSI         -     Large-Scale Irrigation
LSII-1      -     Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
LSII-2      -     Second Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
MARA        -    Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MIP         -     Management Improvement Plan
MIS         -     Management Information System
MOF         -     Ministry of Finance
MOI         -     Ministry of Intprior
MOPH        -     Ministry of 'ublic Health
MOPW        -     Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training
ONE         -     National Authority for Energy
ORMVA       -     Regional Authority for Agricultural Development
O&M         -     Operation and Maintenance
SAGI        -     Service for Large-Scale Irrigation
SMSI        -     Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
WUA         -     Water User Association
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



F'OR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:                     US$215 million equivalent
Terms:                      20 years, including five years' grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Executing Agencies:         Directorate of Rural Equipment (DER) and the nine
irrigation authorities (ORMVAs), under the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAIR).
Project Objectives:         The project would be the second phase in the
nation-wide process to increase efficiency, cost
effectiveness and sustainability of the large-scale
irrigation (LSI) subsector which consists of nine
irrigation systems covering a total of 485,000 ha,
involving 125,000 farmers and contributing
20 percent of Morocco's total agricultural
production. Project objectives would be to:
(a) increase efficiency of water distribution in
the existing LSI schemes; (b) preserve public
investments in LSI; (c) reduce the fiscal burden of
operation and maintenance (O&M) activities; (d)
enhance efficiency of water use by irrigators; ind
(e) ensure environmental protection in the LSI
subsector.
Prolect Description:        The project would include: (a) infrastructure
rehabilitation, including reconstruction, repair or
upgrading of canals, drains, feeder roads and
pumping stations over the existing irrigated area;
(b) institutional strengthening involving the nine
ORMVAs and the Directorate of Ru.al Equ,;aent (DER)
in MARA through provision of equipment, technical
assistance and training to improve O&M procedures,
accounting methods and environmental protection,
introduce performance monitoring and prepare policy
reforms; (c) water use efficiency improvement
through pilot demonstrations and on-farm
investments; and (d) policy reforms to increase
cost recovery, streamline relations between
Government, ORMVAs and farmers, adopt a long-term
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
plan for rehabilitation, and revise LSI
institutional framework. The project would complete
system rehabilitation and ORMVA restructuring which
began under the First and Fscond Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loans (Loans 2590- and 2885-MOR),
was the focus of the first Large-Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project with a US$46 million loan (Loan
2656-MOR, 1986-1992) and is also supported by the
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
(Loan 3403-MOR). The proposed project would
concentrate on the improvement of ORMVA public
util'.ty function for water distribution.
Agricultural development in LSI areas would be
supported by the parallel Bank-financed Irrigated
Areas Agricultural Services Project appraised in
FY93.
Environmental Asnects:      The project has been placed in environmental
screening category "B" consistent with the
provisions of Operational Directive 4.01,
'Environmental Assessment'. The project was the
subject of a field based environmental review which
concluded that the project would have a positive
impact on environmental conditions due to its focus
on improving the water and land use through
investments in the rehabilitation of
infrastructure, promotion of improved water and
land management, support for special studies, and
institutional strengthening and training.
Benefits:                   Benefits would accrue from (a) increased
agricultural production from increased water
availability in the rehabilitated areas;
(b) savings on O&M resulting from system overhaul
and improved O&M practices; (c) lower transport
costs following road rehabilitation; and (d) other
savings resulting from more efficient water use and
allocation, reduced Government subsidies, and
improved environmental protection.
Risks                       Risks in implementing infrastructure rehabilitation
and most of the institutional strengthening are
limited due to the advanced level of project
preparation. The signing by each ORMVA of a Project
Agreement with the Bank would improve Bank dialogue
on the institution building component. Government
commitment and the project's monitoring mechanisms



- iii -
would help reduce the risk in improving ORMVA
management capabilities. A joint high-level
mid-term review would be conducted to assess
progress in project implementation and take
appropriate measures to ensure successful
implementation.
Estimated Prolect Cost:                           Local        ForeJan       Total
......... (US$ million).
Investment Costs
Civil Works            99.4          66.3      163.7
Vehiclss & Equipment  23.1           38.8       61.9
Technical Assistance   2.7            6.4        9.1
Training & Studies      2.4           2.9        5.3
On-Farm Investments    9.7           12.6       22.3
Sub-total         137.3        127.0       264.3
Recurrent Costs         6.0           8.9       14.9
Total base Cost       143.3         135.9      279.',
Physical Cont.      18.5         15.5        34.0
Price Conting.    .31L2          22.9        54.1
Total Project Cost   193.0          174.3      367.3
Financing Plan:                                 Local       Foreign        Total
.(.. US$ million) .
Government           98.0            -         98.0
Bank                    -       215.0         215.0
ORNVAs               35.3            -         35.3
Bepeficiaries        19.0            -         19.0
Total               152.3       215.0         367.3
Estimated Disbursement:  IBRD FY   1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
................. (US$ million).
Annual     11    26    30    34       38    40   26    10
Cumulative 11    37    67   101    139   179  205   215
Economic Rate of Return:    ERR estimated at 23 percent for physical
rehabilitation components of the project, which
represents 65 percent of total project cost.
IBRD 23744



- Iv -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A. Project Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B. The Agricultural Sector ....................
II. THE IRRIGATION SECTOR IN MOROCCO .... . . ..                                          3
A. Background and Strategy .....  ..  .                .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .   3
B. The Large-Scale Irrigation Subsector   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
C. Environmental Aspects of Large-Scale Irrigation . . . . . . . .  7
D. LSI Issues and Challenges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     8 .  R
E. LSII-1:  Results and Lessons   ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   9
F.  Bank Strategy for LSI   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
III. THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
A. Project Concept and Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
B. SJmmary Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
C. Detailed Features. ...............   12
D. Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
E. Implementation Schedule    ..16
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
V.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY REFORMS  20
A. Project Organization .20
B. Legal Documents and Mid-Term Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
C. Infrastructure Rehabilitation .22
D  ORNVA Management   ...........   .......  .                            .  .  .    .  22
E. Cost Recovery . . . . . . .                                                    23
F. ORMVA Contribution to Project Financing .  . . . . . . . . . . .  23
G. ORMVA-Government Relations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
H. Water Use Efficiency Improvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
I. Environmental Protection   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
J. Policy Reforsns for LSI  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
VI.   PROJECT IMPACT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
B. Marketing and Prices   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
C. Financial Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
D. Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECONMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . . 30
This report was prepared by J.?. Villare, Task Manager, J. Cole (Sr. Agiculrist), M. Woldu (Economist),
L. Effron (Sr. Economist), P. Berthom6 (Waer Use), B. Bousquet (Ecologi) and M. Saiatdjian (Accountant). 1. Polak
(Consultant) assised in the final prepaation of this repor.



In-t2xt Table.
Table 4.1  Summary of Project Josts ................ . 17
Table 4.2  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . 18
Table 4.3  Disbursement Categories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Table 6.1  Economic Rates of Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
Annexes
Annex 1.   List of Bank and IDA Projects in Agriculture  . . . . . . . 32
Annex 2.   ORNVAs' Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Annex 3.   Description of Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Annex 4.   Cash Flow of the ORMVAs; Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . .  .46
Annex 5.   Project Costs and Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Annex 6.   Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Annex 7.   Environmental Aspects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
Annex 8.   Criteria for ORMVA Eligibility for Direct Bank Lending  . . 71
Annex 9.   Summary Terms of Reference for Consultant Studies . . . . . 72
Implementation Volume
Working Paper no. 1    Agricultural Development
Working Paper no. 2    Economic Evaluation
Working Paper no. 3    Environmental Review
Working Paper no. 4    Amelioration des Techniques d'Irrigation
MR No : IBRD 23744



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SEOTOR BACKGROUND
A. Proiect Background
1.01   Morocco has made irrigation the centerpiece of its agricultural development.
Since 1985, the Bank has supported this strategy through a program consisting of
eight loans, five of which focused on expanding irrigated areas by building large-
scale irrigation (LSI) systems and another two supported the small- and medium-scale
irrigation (SMSI) systems. The US$46 millior. Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement
Project (LSII-1, Loan 2656-MOR) approved in 1986, the sixth loan to LSI, shifted
this emphasis toward raising efficiency by improving the reliability and performance
of the existing irrigation facilities and by strengthening the institutional
policies supporting the LSI subsector. This first improvement project (scheduled to
close June 30, 1993) has made a successful start toward rehabilitating irrigation
infrastructure, strengthening management, and introducing policy reforms. The
proposed Second Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (LSII-2) would provide
US$215 million to continue this process.
1.02   LSII-1 demonstrated the ability of the irrigation authorities to zarry out
the physical works needed to rehabilitate Morocco's large-scale irrigation systems.
The proposed project would greatly expand this process, reducing significantly the
backlog of old, deteriorated facilities in need of rehabilitation. Under LSII-1,
institution building components made a creditable start toward improving accounting
and information systems. However, the Government and the Bank underestimated the
difficulty of changing long-entrenched operacing methodologies and the time needed
to design new systems and put them in place. Through stressing institutional
strengthening and incorporating lessons learned in implementing LSII-1. the proposed
project will continue the process of building a sound basis for irrigation
sustainability in Morocco.
1.03   Furthermore, it will build upon the Government's efforts to decentralize and
give more autonomy, responsibility and accountability to the agencies in charge of
LSI operations. By focussing on their strategic management and the public utility
function, LSII-2 would address the subsectoral issues associated with reduction of
budgetary transfers, promotion of the private sector and environmental protection.
The water use efficiency component would be an innovative attempt to introduce
demand management for irrigation water and would be part of the Bank-supported
initiative for rationalizing water resource management country-wide.
1.04    LSII-2 was appraised in February 1992 after preparation missions in 1990 and
1991. Loan negotiations were successfully completed in February 1993.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.05   The agricultural sector is a critical component of the Government's economic
and social strategy. Although agriculture contributes only 16 percent of Morocco's
GDP, it provides employment to 40 percent of the labor force and generates
30 percent of export earnings. Food crops are the largest subsector, contributing
about 60 percent of the gross value of agricultural production. Cereals account for
nearly 80 percent of the harvested area and 33 percent of the gross value of
production.



-2-
1.06   Morocco has 28 million ha of agricultural land, of which only 7.7 million ha
are cultivable; half this area receives sufficient but inconsistent rainfall.
Irrigation Is widespread: all but 200,000 of a potentially irrigable 1.5 millon ha
are irrigated. Moroccan agriculture is dualistic; its relatively prosperous areas
use modern technology to produce food, industrial and export crops, while poorer
areas practice traditional agricultxre in which cereals and pulses dominate.
1.07   Agricultural growth was slow in the 1970s, averaging 2.4 percent p.a., but
rose to an impressive average 6.7 percent p.a. during 1980-90 despite several
drought years. This reflects the growing impact of irrigation, good rainfall in the
non-drought years, and improved producer prices for cereals. Domestic demand,
however, rose even faster, driven by high population growth (2.6 percent p.a.) and
urbanization (4.3 percent p.a.). Food imports rose 10 percent p.a. in volume on
average over 1980-90 and now account for about 13 percent of merchandise imports.
1.08   Annual public investment in agriculture,  mainly channeled through the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA), ranged from DH 1.6 to
2.4 billion in 1991 prices over the past two decades, accounting for 12 to
16 percent of public investment. About 55 percent of agricultural investment was
allocated to irrigation, mainly LSI (excluding dams). Under the 1988-92 plan,
DH 5.5 billion out of the DH 11.5 billion allocated to the sector were budgeted for
irrigation.
Government Oblectives and Strategy
1.09   Since the 1970s, Government agricultural policy has focused on increasing
production, promoting exports, creating rural employment, and promoting balanced
regional growth. The Government has supported the sector by investing in irrigation
facilities, providing incentives for private on-farm investment, subsidizing inputs
and providing stable and remunerative prices for outputs.
1.10   In  the mid-1980s,  in parallel  to a macroeconomic  restructuring,  the
Government began a Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program to liberalize
agriculture and food prices, reduce subsidies and restructure public expenditures
in the sector. This effort is still continuing. The Government has also initiated
a long-term program to restructure public enterprises across the economy, including
in the agricultural sector, that is being followed by a large privatization program.
Bank Support for Moroccan Agriculture
1.11 The Bank and IDA have provided 28 loans and credits totalling US$1,555 milli-
on for Moroccan agriculture, or 28 percent of total lending of US$5,400 million
since 1965 (Annex 1). Bank lending has focused on small farmers through eight
operations (US$264 million) supporting large- and small-scale irrigation and another
17 (US$916 million), the other subsectors. Sectoral reforms have been supported
since 1985 by two successive Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (ASAL-I and II,
US$325 million). Sectoral public investment is being supported by an Agricultural
Sector Investment Loan (ASIL, US$50 million). In parallel, the Bank has supported
macroeconomic restructuring through two Sectoral Adjustment Loans (SAL-I, US$200
million and SAL-II, 275 million, approved in 1992) and the reorganization of the
public enterprises under the Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan (US$240 million).
A major component of SAL-II is furthering the support of agricultural trade and
price liberalization begun under the sectoral adjustment loans and rationalizing
investment incentives.



-3-
II. THE IRRIGATION SECTOW. IN MOROCCO
A.  Background and Strategy
2.01   Morocco's farmers have traditionally used irrigation to compensate for low
and inconsistent rainfall, bringing 800,000 ha under small-scale systems. Since the
1970s, Morocco has made modern, large-scale irrigation the centerpiece of its
agricultural development and has rapidly built or modernized nearly 500,000 ha. The
whole irrigation sector currently contributes one fourth of gross valuei of total
agricultural production (Annex 2.1). In addition to boosting food production, this
strategy has also increased rural employment, promoted agroindustry and helped
stabilize domestic production.
2.02   Morocco's strategy for LSI was based on building modern irrigation systems
that took advantage of abundant water and land resources. The country's nine LSI
schemes are state-of-the-art systems that include storage dams, lined canals,
pressurized pipes, pumping stations, and automatic flow control. The schemes provide
year-round irrigation and equitable water distribution. About half of public
investment in agriculture between 1970 and 1985 was directed to LSI. LSI currently
contributes about one fifth of gross value in agriculture, and provides two thirds
of Morocco's sugar and half of its milk consumption (Annex 2.1). LSI has also raised
productivity significantly by bringing modern agriculture to 125,000 poor, small
farm families, and, in several areas, has reversed the flow of people from rural to
urban areas while protecting semi-arid land from overgrazing.
2.03   Morocco's irrigation strategy for LSI entered a new phase in the mid-1980s.
Increasing attention was given to improving small- and medium-scale irrigation
(SMSI) through low capital investments while the LSI focus shifted from expansion
to rehabilitation, maintenance and efficiency improvements. The Bank supported this
shift in priorities with two loans directed to SMSI projects and the first LSI
Improvement Project.
2.04   The strategy was again reviewed at the end of 1992 to address the economic
and social impact of reoccurring droughts and exploit the unutilized irrigation
capacity resulting from recent eam construction. A National Irrigation Program is
currently under preparation to expand LSI areas and to modernize small- and
medium-scale irrigated areas covering 250,000 ha between 1993 and 2000, while
200,000 ha of old LSI systems would be simultaneously rehabilitated, mainly under
the second LSII Project.
B. The Laree-Scale Irri&a2. on Subsector
2.05   Morocco's nine LSI schemes  (see map)  involve capital-intensive public
investments for hydraulic infrastructure. They are almost entirely based on surface
water stored behind large dams. Out of a total LSI area of 485,800 ha, the modern
irrigation systems cover 408,300 ha or 84 percent, of which 294,000 ha is surface
irrigation and 114,300 ha sprinkler irrigation. The remaining 77,500 ha are improved
traditional schemes (Annex 2.1).
2.06   The Government's  LSI strategy has promoted  industrial cash crops  and
intensive animal production in combination with traditional food crops. Cereals
(mainly bread wheat) are planted on 35 percent of the area of the seven modern
schemes; industrial crops (sugar beet, sugarcane, cotton, oilseeds) on 24 percent;
forage crops for high-yielding cattle on 12 percent; vegetables on 11 percent, and
miscellaneous crops on 3 percent. Tree crops, mainly citrus and olive trees, cover



15 percent of the cultivated area. Overall cropping intensity was 102 percent in
1990, with the best performancs achieved in Doukkala and Tadla with 125 percent and
above (Annex 2.1).
2.07   Most farms in LSI areas are small and privately owned; 77 percent of farms
are 5 ha or smaller, and average farm size areas is 3.9 ha (APnex 2.1). A
significant portion of holdings above 20 ha are state-owned and operated by parasta-
tals or farmer cooperatives supervised by the Government. Most of these lands are
currently being privatized. Although the small size of the tarm can be seen as an
incentive to agricultural intensification, the continuoAs fragmentation o,c the
holdings due to the increasing pressure of the rural population is becoming an
obstacle to modernization, exacerbated by the persistence of traditional frms of
collective ownership ("indivision" and "terres collectives").
Institutional Framework
2.08   Institutions. The LSI subsector involves a combination of Government bodies
and public enterprises at central and regional levels, and private farmers, input
suppliers and output processors. The institutional and legal framework for LSI was
established in the late 1960s on a strongly centralized and government-dominated
basis, but, since the mid-1980s, has moved toward decentralization and state
divestiture.
2.09   MARA plays a pivotal role in the LSI subsector; it has full responsibility
for building and operating irrigation facilities (except dams) and supervising
agricultural research and development. MARA has delegated operational responsibility
for building, operating, and maintaining LSI systems to nine Regional Agricultural
Development Authorities (ORMVAs). The ORMVAs also provide agricultural extension and
support services to farmers. Their legal status is that of administrative public
enterprises, placed under MARA's technical supervision and the Ministry of Finance's
(MOF) financial control.   The Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training
(MOIW) is responsible for water resource planning, development and allocation to all
sectors, including agriculture. It also constructs and operates dams and monitors
aquifers and water quality. The National Bank for Agricultural Credit (CNCA)
together with an increasing network of commercial banks are responsible for
delivering rural finance. The Ministry of Interior (MOI) coordinates and supervises
environmental protection. The Ministry of Finance (MOF), through the Directorate of
Budget (DB) for capital expenditures and the Dir-ctorate for Public Enterprises and
Participation (DEPP) for recurrent expenditures, carries out budget allocation to,
and financial control of the ORMVAs. DEPP is responsible for public enterprise
restructuring and, in particular, the negotiation of program contracts and
management improvements plans (MIPs) signee :y the Governments and selecte!d public
enterprises.
2.10   The LSI Leval Framework.  LSI legislation comprises a series  of laws
("dahirs") and regulations ("ddcrets"), embodied in the Agricultural Investment Code
(AIC). They set out Government and farmer roles in public investment for LSI and,
in particular, lay down the basis for cost recovery through water charges, the
status and role of the ORMVAs, and farmer cultivation obligations. The basic
legislation was issued in 1969 to support a development strategy based on an
intensive Government intervention in the agricultural sector, especially in LSI.
Under LSII-2, parts of AIC would be revised to reflect the liberalization policies
recently adopted by the Government. Under current legislation, water is considered
a public good and subject to charges for private use except in the traditional
schemes (Haouz, Ouarzazate and Tafiialet), where old water rights still apply and
public investment costs are not recovered. In 1990, Morocco promulgated a law which



-5-
provides a legal basis for irrigators to establish water user associations (WUA) and
participate in system operation and maintenance (O&M).
2.11   Role of the Private Sector. Until the mid-1980s, LSI development was a top-
down Government undertaking. Most decisions were made by MARA, the ORMVAs were
extensively involved in commercial activities such as mechanized cultivation
services, input supply and veterinary services, and state-owned firms held
processing monopolies for sugar and cotton. The private sector was confined to
output marketing for domestic consumptior.. Under LSII-1, the ORMVAs have withdrawn
from commercial activities and the private sector's role is rapidly expanding. A
private agro-industrial sector is also developing for milk processing and fruit
export, while the state-owned processing industry is being restructured for further
privatization. An increasing number of farmer cooperatives are also operating, and
professional associations are emerging to support farmers' involvement in specific
crops. WUA, first promoted under LSII-1, are at a very early scage of development
but are expected to expand rapidly under LSII-2 and take over part of O&M activities
from the ORMVAs.
Management Practices
2.12   ORMVA Management.  Subsector management has become increasingly complex as
the number and size of systems and field programs have grown. ORMVA budgeting and
accounting methods are inadequate to control the financial aspects of operations.
Monitoring of technical and financial performance is also poor, and training
programs and performance incentives are lacking. LSII-1 began addressing these
problems by installing management information systems in the Doukkala, Gharb,
Loukkos, and Tadla ORMVAs, expected to be effective by June 1993.
2.13   To clarify ORMVA management objectives and introduce incentives for good
performance, the Government is establishing multi-year Management Improvement Plans
(MIPs or "protocoles d'accord") similar to the Program Contracts signed with
Morocco's major public enterprises. Two MIPs are expected to be signed before June
1993, the rest would be prepared, negotiated and signed under LSII-2.
2.14   System Ogeration.  Water distribution efficiency from main canals to farm
turnouts is in the range of 70 to 80 percent in most of Morocco's modern schemes.
While this is very high, capital and operating costs are also high, and improvements
are needed to enhance cost effectiveness. Although water distribution is equitable
due to the hirh densi', of minor canals and systematic land consolidation,
distribution is rigid, with long rotation intervals, especially during the summer
months, which discourages farmers from growing delicate but remuneratire vegetable
and tree crops. Even though significant progress is being made with the gradual
introduction of distribution on "arranged demand" and computerized flow c-ntrol on
large canals, improved operating procedures are needed to increase flexibility and
efficiency of water distribution.
2.15   System Rehabilitation.  Morocco's early focus on expanding irrigation paid
little attention to the inevitable need to rehabilitate infrastructure. Pumping
equipment needs replacement every 10-15 years, and prefabricated concrete canals,
buried pipes and the concrete lining of large canals, every 30-40 years. While a
first rehabilitation program was launched under LSII-1, the second LSII Project
would primarily rehabilitate, in totality or partially, a total about 200,000 ha
developed before 1960 in need of complete reconstruction and about 60 pumping
stations constructed during the '70s in need of overhaul.
2.16   System Maintenance.   The need for replacement has been intensified by
insufficient maintenance, which also reduces water distribution reliability and



-6-
discourages farmers from growing delicate, high-value crops. Inadequate procedures,
shortage of qualified staff and insufficient resource allocation are the root causes
of poor maintenance performance. LSII-1 made signif.'cant improvements by creating
O&M units in each ORMVA, providing additional equipment, introducing computer-
assisted preventive maintenance and involving the private sector through maintenance
contracts for pumping equipment. These efforts would be seriously intensified under
the second LSII Project.
Water Charges and O&M Funding
2.17   Irrigation Water Ci.araes.  Morocco is a leader among developing countries in
having a legal and institutional framework in place for significant recovery of both
operating and investment costs in irrigation. Current legislaticn (para. 2.10) calls
for full recovery of O&M costs and up to 40 percent of initial investment costs,
including dams and conveyors. Water charges are divided into three parts: a volume
charge to cover all direct operating costs and depreciation, exclusive of pumping
costs, plus 10 percent of investment costs; a separate pumping charge, also volume-
based, to encompass entrgy costs; and a land betterment levy, to recover 30 percent
of initial investment costs. Volume and pumping charges are centrally calculated by
MARA and periodically updatrd to cover inflation (Annex 2.1). They are differentiat-
ed by ORMVA and based on parameters relating O&M costs to investmernt costs, the life
span of equipment and civil works, and an estimate of energy needs for pumping. The
land betterment levy is calculated to recover 30 percent of investment costs over
17 years at an annuity rate of 4 percent, with five years grace. Together, volume
and pumping charges account for about 12-14 percent of production cost for farmers
using surface irrigation, and 19-24 percent for sprinkler irrigation. The average
'and betterment levy is about DH 110 per ha, although farms below 20 ha are
partially exempted.
2.18   Adeguacv of Water Charges.  A full picture of the adequacy of centrally
calculated volume and pumping charges in covering.the O&M actual costs of the ORMVAs
will not be available until adequate O&M and cost accounting systems are fully
established under LSII-1 and LSII-2. Preliminary figures available for the seven
ORMVAs that sell water suggest that water charges as calculated cover about
85 percent of total O&M costs (Annex 2.3). Only Doukkala and Tadla which charge
significantly more than the direct O&M costs are in a position to finance a portion
of asset depreciation - the rehabilitation of the system - from the proceeds of
water charges.
2.19   Achieving full cost recovery through water charges, a primary objective of
LSII-1, will be difficult. Even with full collection of the present water charges,
five of the seven ORMVAs that sell water would still need Government financing to
close the gap between billed charges and the actual direct cost of water excluding
depreciation; the gap would be eTen wider if the ORMVAs fully followed adequate
maintenance practices. For six ORMVAs, including depreciation in the water charges
(as prescribed in the law) would result in major tariff increases that could hardly
be supported by the current level of agricultural productivity. Raising water use
efficiency and productivity to make paying the full cost of water economic for
farmers will be a complex process irvolving both supply and demand management. These
issues would be thoroughly addressed under the second LSII Project.
2.20   Collection Rate of Water Charg_..  Total amount collected for volume and
pumping charges by the seven ORMVAs engaged in the sale of water sharply rose from
DH 113 million in 1984 to DH 386 million in 1991 and DH 414 million in 1992, a
remarkable performance which reflects the simultaneous increase of water quantities
billed to farmers, unit charges and collection rates. The overall collection rate



rose from 55 percent in 1984 to 74 percent in 1991 and 79 percent in 1992.
Performance varies widely across ORMVAs, with Tadla and Doukkala recovering nearly
90 percent in 1992, and Moulouya slightly more than 60 percent (Annex 2.2). Several
factors determine collection performance, including the proportion of industrial
crops and sprinkler irrigated area. While ORMVAs have used several strategies to
improve collections - such as optimizing the schedule for billing and imposing
sanctions for non-payment - a consistent action program that addresses all aspects
of water charge collection and reporting is still needed to allow for adequate
monitoring of ORMVA performance.
Financial Situation of the ORMVAs
2.21   ORMVA expenditures cover three main activities: (a) building and rehabili-
tating irrigation schemes; (b) scheme operation and maintenance; and (c) supporting
agriculturd. development. Only the O&M activities are designed to generate income,
and the legislation mandates that these activities be self-financing and recover all
associated costs through water charges from farmers and other clients. Support
services are seen as public service activities that should be financed by budgetary
allocations. A tentative consolidated statement of ORMVAs' expenditures is given in
Annex 2.3 and summarized in the next paragraph.
2.22   Total annual ORMVA expenditures over 1988-1990 averaged DH 1,320 million
(US$147 million), financed from ORMVA income from water charges (DH 310 million,
including arrears) and budgetary transfers estimated at DH 1,010 million, including
DH 750 million from current year budgets and DH 260 million through advances from
future budgets ("payments directs"). Income from water charges covered 85 percent
of actual direct O&M leaving a DH 50 million deficit (US$6 million) to be financed
by the budget. Thus, Morocco's annual budgetary cost to maintain its LSI investments
is some DH 170 million (US$19 million), including the operating losses on O&M
(DH 50 million) and the cost of the rehabilitation undertaken under LSII-1
(DH 120 million), which, to some extent, reflects depreciation of assets.
Water Use by Farmers
2.23   While LSI distribution networks perform well, farmers use water less effi-
ciently: water losses between farm gate and crops are estimated at 30-40 percent.
Although this performance is acceptable in comparison to other developing countries,
water losses of this magnitude induce economic losses, increase farm operating costs
and can lead to a build-up of soil salinity and groundwater pollution. Over the long
term, wasting large quantities of water is a serious issue in view of the growing
imbalance between water supply and demand in most of Morocco.
2.24   The root causes of inefficient on-farm water management include lack of
technical support to farmers, low water charges for surface irrigation and poor col-
lection of sprinkler irrigation fees, which are disincentives for farmers to save
water and improve their irrigation facilities. Moreover, low priority has been given
by the ORMVAs to on-farm water efficiency. However, improving irrigation efficiency
is complex and a long-term approach is needed to induce farmers to conserve water.
Taking a first step in this direction would be a principal objective of LSII-2.
C. Environmental Asgects of Large-Scale Irrigation
2.25   The control of waterborne disease and effluent from sugar processing plants
was an objective of LSII-1 which assessed the damages - relatively moderate - and
coordinated the mitigation measures carried out under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), MOPW and the Mitnistry of Industry. The project
also raised the environmental consciousness of LSI officials and others in



-8-
Government. An important result was the decision to create a Bureau for Environmen-
tal Protection in four ORMVAs in 1992 and subsequently in the five remaining ones
with support of LSII-2.
2.26   In order to enhance environmental protection in the LSI areas in a broader
and more systematic way, the Government undertook the preparation of a sectoral
Environmental Assessment (EA) to support long range planning activities within MARA
(Annex 7). The study provides an interdisciplinary evaluation of the long-term
environmental implications of operation of the irrigation sector. It also includes
recommendations for environmental monitoring and institutional strengthening at the
national and ORMVA level.
2.27   The findings of the Sectoral EA confirm that LSI has had a positive impact
through improved management of land and water resources, control of flooding,
reduction of habitat for the vectors of bilharzia and malaria, and generation of
significant direct and indirect employment opportunities for large rural populations
thereby reducing rural-urban migration. Adverse impacts, though much less dramatic
than in most LSI areas throughout the world, are localized in specific areas and
include soil waterlogg.ng and salinity due to the rise of groundwater levels, water
pollution from agricultural and agro-industrial sources, increase of waterborne
diseases due to poor system O&M and poor sanitation practices, and reduction of
wildlife habitat as the result of wetlands drainage. In the long term, conservation
and improved management practices for the soil and water resources used for LSI is
a matter of concern in view of soil erosion in the watersheds, eutrophication of
reservoirs, depletion of the Souss aquifer and encroachment of sand dunes on the
southern irrigated areas at the edge of the Sahara.
D. LSI Issues and Challenies
2.28 The large-scale irrigation subsector has been allocated a high proportion of
investment resources and the country's most talented managers have been assigned to
LSI schemes. As a consequence, the LSI area expanded rapidly, from 125,000 ha in
1965 to 420,000 ha in 1985. Expansion has since slowed because of budgetary
constraints and a strategic shift toward rehabilitation, particularly under the
1988-92 Plan. Government intends to combine LSI expansion and rehabilitation under
the forthcoming National Irrigation Program; this will pose a major challenge to
budgetary resources unless existing LSI schemes can quickly increase their financial
sustainability.
2.29   Government realizes  that LSI systems have to evolve toward financial
self-sufficiency through cost-effective O&M, improved water-use efficiency and,
above all, increased cost recovery. In this connection and in parallel with
rehabilitating LSI facilities and improving their ma-nagement, the Government intends
to launch agricultural services support programs specifically directed to LSI areas
to increase the productivity of irrigated agriculture so that farmers can, over
time, pay the full opportunity cost of the water they use.
2.30 Furthermore, conserving water and managing demand are increasingly necessary
if Morocco's economic growth is to continue. Some 90 percent of the country's
developed water resources are directed toward irrigation, and the Government is
aware that developing additional supplies will be severely constrained by physical
shortages and soaring development costs, and that the rapidly growing urban and
industrial sectors are increasingly competing with agriculture for water. MARA
intends to use LSII-2 to pioneer a water conservation program to reduce on-farm
losses and raise irrigation efficiency.



-9-
2.31 Government's early decision to use advanced irrigation technologies has
allowed precise and equitable water distribution and minimized environmental damage.
Construction standards have been high and have created systems with relatively long
life spans. Small farmers have been supported through "turnkey" projects,
comprehensive support services and stable prices for cash crops. While subsidies to
the ORMVAs have been a significant burden on the Government budget, they have
supported a relatively high level of technical expertise. This has led to an
effective and stable institutional framework for carrying out the Government's
evolving agricultural strategy. As a result, Morocco has done much better than most
developing countries in maintaining the operational and agricultural performance of
its irrigation systems. The largely satisfactory performance of the Moroccan LSI
systems is underscored in a 1989 OED Impact Study (Report No. 7876) on the Doukkala
I and II Projects.
2.32 Despite this noteworthy record, the high investment costs, continuous
reliance on budget subsidies, and growing competition for Morocco's water resources
pose increasing challenges to the LSI subsector. Many of these challenges are
inherent to Morocco's strategic approach to irrigation. Pumped, rather than gravity,
irrigation has higher energy costs and requires more complex and timely maintenance.
It also means that the replacement of such equipment is costly and requires
sophisticated multi-year depreciation strategies. On the financial side, the
Government has been over-involved in budget-draining activities that could be
performed by the private sector, such as supplying inputs, while its inability to
fully charge for the cost of capital investments and water distribution has
constrained revenues and encouraged inefficient irrigation practices.
2.33 Cost recovery is also the key to improving on-farm water management and
reducing water losses; recognizing that they must pay the full costs for irrigation
will provide incentives for farmers to undertake the investments and maintenance
needed to minimize water wastage. Improving production per unit of water has,
however, a second side. Research, extension, and marketing facilities, particularly
for non-industrial crops, must be improved to raise farmer incentives and incomes
so that they can afford higher irrigation charges. Addressing these issues and
challenges has been LSII-l's principal objective. The proposed project would
continue this focus, taking into account the lessons of the first project.
E. LSII 1: Results and Lessons
2.34 The first LSII Project began in 1987 a process of making Morocco's LSI
subsector more efficient, cost-effective and sustainable. The project combines
physical investments to rehabilitate or upgrade irrigation infrastructure serving
about 150,000 ha with institutional strengthening of the nine ORMVAs through
management studies, technical assistance, and training to improve O&M operations,
to reorganize extension services, and to introduce modern accounting and internal
audit practices. It also includes policy reforms designed to clarify ORMVA relations
with Government, improve cost recovery, increase farmer participation in O&M,
transfer commercial activities to the private sector, control environmental
deterioration and resolve problems with the water rights and collectively-owned
lands. Another component is credit for on-farm investments, mainly livestock.
2.35 Under the project, infrastructure rehabilitation has been successful,
confirming the capacity of the ORMVAs to build physical facilities. Water charge
collection rates have been increased significantly although they are still below
expectations. The ORMVAs have successfully spun off commercial activities. WUA have



- 10 -
made a modest but promising start. Increased on-farm investments have been reflected
in growing milk and meat production.
2.36 While LSII-1 demonstrated the strong technical capacity of the ORMVAs, it
also showed that institutional weaknesses were deeper and more widespread than
anticipated. Project design did not adequately recognize the individuality of the
ORMVAs: they are at different stages of managerial evolution and institutional
improvement programs should have been tailored to reflect these differences. Thus,
improving ORMVA management has been slower than expected: the advanced O&M and
accounting procedures proposed for all nine ORMVAs under LSII-1 are now becoming
operational  in just four of them and only tWo MIPs have been successfully
negotiated.
F. Bank Strategy for LSI
2.37 The Bank agrees with Morocco's agricultural focus on improving large-scale
irrigation to sustain agricultural growth and improve small farmer revenues. While
continuing to support the required rehabilitation of irrigation facilities, Bank
assistance is focusing on institutional and policy reforms aimed at making the
public sector more efficient, reducing budget transfers, involving farmers in O&M,
increasing the role of the private sector, encouraging water conservation, and
protecting the environment.
2.38 The Bank is pursuing this strategy through a coordinated lending program with
important and complementary objectives. The proposed project would focus on
efficiency and sustainability of the public utility function of the ORMVAs, on-farm
water management techniques and environmental protection. In this regard, the
project would support the decentralization objectives of the Government, thus giving
the ORMVAs more responsibility and accountability (paras. 5.12 and 5.13). A parallel
Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project (IASSP) appraised in FY93 would
improve efficiency of LSI farming operations through specific agricultural extension
and research and support to service cooperatives and professional organizations. The
ongoing Agricultural Sector Investment Loan and a second sector loan to be appraised
in FY93 would improve the management of pubric resources and finance other
agricultural investments. A Sewerage and Pilot Water Re-use Project under
preparation would pioneer irrigation using non-conventional water resources to
combat mounting water scarcity. A Watershed Management Project under preparation
would tackle the issues associated with the long-term conservation of water
resources. An important piece of Bank sector work begun in FY93 would focus on the
whole water sector in Morocco to recommend appropriate long-term strategies for
further irrigation development. Meanwhile, a series of credit lines to CNCA have
been used to finance on-farm investments in LSI areas and a new rural finance
project is under preparation to continue this financing and to build a stronger and
more diversified rural banking sector.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.39 The proposed project would reinforce the emphasis on O&M, cost recovery,
private sector involvement and environmental protection which forms the core of Bank
strategy in the irrigation sector. By carefully reflecting the lessons learned
during the first phase, in particular, the need to strengthen ORMVA management and
enhance the supervision capabilities of MARA and MOF for LSI, the project would
provide the Bank with the extended time frame required to consistently foster the
long maturing institutional reforms. Through introduction for the first time of an
on-farm water conservation program and an environmental management plan, the Bank
would be in the position to help Morocco face the increasing intersectoral



- 11 -
competition for water and build a consistent countrywide framework for environmental
protection. Finally, the studies intended to explore the issues associated with the
long term development of LSI such as water pricing, rehabilitation planning and
revision of the institutional framework, would give the Bank the opportunity to
maintain a strong policy dialogue with the Government and assist in possibly
financing further lending in LSI.
Link with Bank Country Assistance Strategv
2.40 As detailed in the recent Country Assistance Strategy statement (see Report
No. P-5823-MOR), Bank strategy in Morocco stresses the need to improve public sector
management, foster private sector development, and alleviate poverty, in addition
to consolidating macroeconomic adjustment and reform. Continued involvement by the
Bank in LSI contributes in a major way to these objectives. By emphasizing the
institution-building aspects of irrigation management, Bank support for LSI directly
contributes to sustained improvements in public sector resource management. Private
sector development and poverty alleviation are also significantly, if less directly,
served by Bank support for LSI, through increases in farmers' productive potential.
In particular, there is strong evidence that the additional income-generating
potential afforded by the development of irrigated agriculture attracts, and
subsequently benefits, the rural poor. This beneficial effect is expected to operate
strongly in the areas covered by the Ouarzazate And Tafilalet ORMVAs, where rural
poverty is most acute. In addition, Bank involvement in LSI facilitates the
implementation of several sector-wide policy measures, such as tariff adjustments
to promote more efficient use of water and the implementation of environmental
management and monitoring plans. Implementation of these measures help consolidate
Morocco's overall economic reform program and pave the way for sustainable
development.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Concept and Obiectives
3.01 The project would be the second phase in the Government program to make LSI
more efficient, cost effective and sustainable. Its major objectives would be to:
(a) enhance efficiency of water distribution systems through rehabilitation of
irrigation facilities and improved operation;
(b) preserve public investments in LSI through appropriate system maintenance;
(c) reduce budgetary costs of O&M activities in LSI by increasing cost recovery
from beneficiaries and strengthening ORMVA management capabilities;
(d) enhance efficiency cf water use by irrigators through improved irrigation
techniques and appropriate on-farm investments; and
(e) ensure better environmental protection by implementing environmental
monitoring plans in all LSI areas.
B. Summary Prolect DescriRtion
3.02 To achieve the above objectives, the project would implement the following
three components:



- 12 -
(a) infrastructure rehabilitation including reconstruction, repair, upgrading or
replacement of canals, drains, feeder roads, control structures and pumping
equipment throughout the nine LSI schemes;
(b) institutional strengthening including the provision of equipment, buildings
facilities, technical assistance and training to the nine ORNVAs to improve
the management of irrigation systems, and to DER to coordinate project
implementation, monitor ORMVA performance and prepare policy reforms; and
(c) water use efficiency imRrovement including pilot demonstrations of improved
irrigation techniques, upgrading of the water metering systems, and
rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation systems on about 20,000 ha.
3.03  A set of policy reforms would be implemented by MARA, with a view to
increasing cost recovery, adopting long-term plans for rehabilitation, streamlining
the relations between Government, ORMVAs and farmers, and updating LSI institutional
framework.
C. Detailed Features
Component no.l: Infrastructure Rehabilitation
3.04 The project would implement a rehabilitation program of the LSI schemes in
continuation of the rehabilitation initiated under the first project. While LSII-1
primarily focused on urgent repairs and completion of unfinished works, the second
project would essentially concentrate on the reconstruction of old distribution
systems, replacement of pumping equipment and rehabilitation of feeder roads. By the
end of the project, most of the existing LSI infrastructure would be in sound
operational condition. Construction contracts would include provisions to assure
that work would be conducted in an environmentally sound manner. The environmental
staff of the ORNVAs would be responsible for monitoring the implementation of these
provisions which would be included as an element of progress reports on construc-
tion.
3.05 The list of the rehabilitation operations is given in Annex 3.1. The
following is a summary description of the envisaged operations:
(a) reconstruction of irrigation distribution systems. The project would
rehabilitate 11 existing irrigation distribution systems ranging from about
150 ha to 15,000 ha and serving an aggregate area of 52,000 ha located in the
territory of six ORMVAs (Doukkala, Gharb, Haouz, Moulouya, Souss-Massa and
Tadla). Rehabilitation would include the overhaul or reconstruction of
irrigation and drainage canals and feeder roads;
(b) uDurading of main canals. To facilitate O&M operations, reduce water losses
and improve flexibility in water distribution, the project would repair and
upgrade five main canals or pipelines serving from 4,000 to 36,000 ha with
an aggregate irrigated area of 89,000 ha (Doukkala, Moulouya, Souss-Massa and
Tadla). The project would mainly include repair or expansion of the concret
lining and control structures, replacement of control gates and introduction
of computerized flow regulation systems;
(c) rehabilitation of flood irrigation sXstems. The project would rehabilitate
the diversion weirs and canals serving 20 traditional flood irrigation
schemes in the Saharan regions (Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet)
ranging from 200 ha to 9,000 ha with an aggregate irrigated area of about
21,000 ha;



13 -
(d) improvement of subsurface drainaae. The project would improve the subsurface
drainage systems on an aggregate area of 19,000 ha in three existing schemes
(Charb, Moulouya and Tadla) to address recurrent waterlogging and soil
salinity problems and promote conjunctive use of water resources where
applicable;
(e) reRlacement of pumping equipment. The project would implement a major program
to systematically replace old pumping equipment, including pumps, electric
motors and transformers, valves, fittings and control systems. The program
would include 133 pumps or motors, located in 58 pumping stations operated
by six ORMVAs (Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos, Moulouya, Souss-Massa and Tadla) and
currently serving about 130,000 ha;
(f) rehabilitation of feeder roads. The project would rehabilitate 1,060 km of
feeder roads (Gharb, Loukkos, Moulouya and Souss-Massa), of which 550 are
located within the irrigation systems to be reconstructed, and 510 km are
scattered throughout other irrigated areas; and
(g) minor reRairs and reRlacements. The project would undertake a wide range of
minor repair scattered throughout irrigation systems of the nine ORMVAs.
3.06  The project would provide for repairing the irrigation facilities damaged by
exceptional and uncontrolled floods during the rainy season.   To this end, an
unallocated amount of US$11 million would be made available to DER for case-by-case
transfer to the concerned ORMVAs.
Component no.2: Institution Building and Policy Reforms
3.07 To enhance LSI overall efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability, the
project would support a major institution building and policy reform program aimed
at improving both ORMVAs and MARA management capacity. To this end, the project
would provide equipment, buildings, technical assistance and training as described
below (details in Annexes 3.2 and 3.3).
3.08 ORMVA strengthening. The project would assist the ORMVAs to improve:
(i) system maintenance through computer-assisted maintenance procedures for pumping
equipment and hydraulic structures; (ii) water distribution to farmers through
computer-assisted real-time operation methods; and (iii) accounting and budgeting
techniques through introduction of appropriate management information systems (MIS).
This would require the following investments:
(a) Drovision of equipment. The project would provide 62 pieces of maintenance
equipment, such as trucks, excavators, cranes, motorgraders, 228 vehicles and
456 motorbikes. Most of this equipment would replace existing obsolete equip-
ment in the nine ORMVAs. Five computer systems would be provided to support
the management information system to be established by the project in five
ORMVAs (in addition to the four systems installed under LSII-1 in the other
ORMVAs);
(b) constructiqn of buildings. The project would provide housing facilities to
the ORMVAs' staff responsible for out-posted O&M activities, including
146 individual houses, five small office compounds and miscellaneous
facilities;
(c) technical assistance and studies. The project would provide a total of
726 man-months of technical assistance to the ORMVAs, including 366
man-months to support infrastructure rehabilitation in four ORMVAs (Doukkala,
Gharb, Moulouya and Tadla) and 360 man-months to support institutional
strengthening, namely improvement of system O&M (300 man-months) in the nine



- 14 -
ORMVAs and MIS installation (60 man-months) in five ORMVAs (Haouz, Moulouya,
Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet); and
(d) training. The project would implement a five-year training program to upgrade
the qualification of ORMVA staff in O&M, accounting, on-farm water management
and environmental protection. This program would include a total of
1,600 man-weeks for training outside Morocco and 4,500 man-weeks for locally
implemented training.
3.09 DER Strengtheninz. The project would support the new Service for LSI
Improvement (SAGI) recently created within DER to coordinate project implementation,
monitor ORMVA performance and implement the studies required for policy reforms. The
project would provide a total of 187 man-months of technical assistance, housing
facilities for ORMVA senior staff assigned to DGRHA, 14 vehicles, computer systems,
laboratory equipment, and 4,500 man-weeks for local training of DGRHA and ORMVA
professional staff (details in Annex 3.3 and summary terms of reference in Annex 9).
Policy Reforms
3.10 On the basis of the preparatory studies to be carried out by SAGI, the
Government is expected to make decisions on the two following policy reforms (see
Chapter V):
(a) increase of water charges. The current level of water charges would be
immediately upgraded within the framework of the existing legislation so that
the volume charge would cover the entire estimated true O&M costs and a
reasonable portion of depreciation costs and the land betterment levy, a more
substantial part of the initial investment; and
(b) siQznina of management improvement Rlans. To enhance ORMVA performance while
making Government supervision more effective, Management Improvement Plans
(MIPs) would be signed by the Government and seven ORMVAs along the lines of
the two MIPs negotiated by the Doukkala and Tadla ORMVAs under LSII-1;
3.11  Based on studies prepared by DER under the project, the Government would
adopt action plans aimed at improving LSI long-term sustainability, through the
following policy reforms (see Chapter V):
(a) water delivery contracts. Standard contracts governing water delivery and
sale by the ORMVAs to farmers would be adopted with the objective of
clarifying the responsibility of both parties, in particular for system
operation, water metering, and cost recovery;
(b) rehabilitation plan. Government would adopt a long-term rehabilitation plan
defining the strategy and cost to preserve existing and future public
investments in LSI;
(c) water tariff restructuring. Following the immediate increase of the water
charges under the current legislation (para. 3.10), the Government would
consider the in-depth restructuring of the current water tariff to better
reflect the increase in water scarcity in Morocco and the growing competition
from other sectors; and
(d) LSI institutional framework. Government would review the options for the
restructuring of the 'SI institutional framework and make a decision on the
required improvements.
Summary terms cc reference of the preparation studies are in Annex 9.



- 15 -
Component no.3: Water Use Efficiency Improvement
3.12 The project would initiate a comprehensive program to increase efficiency of
water use by the irrigators. The program would include modern and traditional
irrigation schemes and involve surface, sprinkler and drip irrigation. in a first
step, the nine ORMVAs would carry out pilot demonstrations of efficient irrigation
practices and rehabilitate the water metering systems. It is expected that, in a
second step, the farmers would undertake private investments to improve their
irrigation facilities. Details of this component are provided in Annex 3.4 and in
the project file.
3.13 Pilot Demonstration of Irrigation Practices. The project would support a
pilot demonstration program intended to show farmers that improved practices for
surface irrigation and introduction of drip irrigation would be cost-effective in
terms of water saving and yield increase. The project would provide the required
equipment and materials to the nine ORMVAs and the Service for Irrigation
Experiments (attached to DER) and finance all incremental operating costs to carry
out the demonstration program on private farms selected on a voluntary basis. The
program would include the following:
(a) surface irrigation. Land levelling and farm ditches would be improved on a
total area of about 1,000 ha belonging to volunteer farmers. The project
would finance the acquisition of land levelling equipment, including
laser-guided and conventional systems, and water distribution material and
equipment, including aluminum and plastic pipes, lining material and concrete
elements. The project would finance additional scientific equipment and
24 vehicles for eight ORMVAs, and cover all incremental operating costs
incurred by the ORMVAs; and
(b) driR irrigation. The project would finance the acquisition of drip irrigation
demonstration sets, including pumps, filters, pipes and emitters covering a
total of 143 ha, to be installed on a total of about 100 farms by the nine
ORMVAs.
3.14 Rehabilitation of Farm Hydrants. In the sprinkler-irrigated areas, the
project would rehabilitate the farm hydrants ("bornes d'irrigation") to allow the
accurate sale to farmers of pressurized water on a volumetric basis. The five ORMVAs
engaged in sprinkler irrigation would be involved in this program (Doukkala, Gharb,
Loukkos, Moulouya and Souss-Massa). A total of about 9,500 hydrants serving a total
of about 35,000 ha would be rehabilitated through replacement of meters, valves and
regulating devices and provision of mobile testing benches.
3.15 On-Farm Investment. As a result of the demo-stration and hydrant rehabilita-
tion, it is expected that progressive farmers would invest in land levelling, canal
lining, improved sprinkler equipment and drip irrigation systems. The project would
support the required private investments to be financed 70 percent by farmers on
their own resources or through the banking system, and 30 percent by a grant from
the Government-funded Agricultural Development Fufid (FDA). In view of the innovative
aspects of this program, the on-farm investment project component would still be at
a pilot level and would only cover about 21,000 ha, including land levelling and
canal improvement on about 11,000 ha, replacement of sprinkler equipment on 9,500 ha
and introduction of drip irrigation on 1,000 ha. All individual projects would be
reviewed by the environmental staff of the ORMVAs prior to their implementation.
3.16 Support to Water User Associations. Improving irrigation techniques would be
faster and more cost-effective if conducted on groups of farms rather than on
individual plots. The project intends to promote the creation of about 400 WUA to



- 16 -
be used as a vehicle for on-farm demonstrations and Investments. In addition, the
WUA would participate in O&M of public infrastructure. To create and support the new
associations, the project would provide the required facilities to the ORMVAs,
including 32 housing units, office and meeting facilities, 32 vehicles, 170 mopeds,
32 microcomputers and audiovisual aids.
D. Status of PRoj_ct PreDaration
3.17 Preparation for project implementation is well advanced. Detailed designs
for civil works specifications for equipment are qvailable for contracts represent-
ing 89 percent of the aggregate cost of infrastructure rehabilitation (Annex 3.6).
All bidding documents for a first tranche of buildings and equipment associated with
institutional strengthening would be completed by the end of 1993. Terms of
reference for MIS and maintenance studies are similar to those used under LSII-1 and
already available. The majority of the bidding documents for the technical
assistance package is expected to be completed by June 1993. The measures
recommended to enhance environmental protection are set out in the sectoral
environmental assessment officially issued in October 1992 after review by the
Government.
E. Imzlementation Schedule
3.18 The project would be implemented over a six-year period, from January 1994
to December 1999. Bidding procedures for priority engineering work and technical
assistance would be iritiated in June 1993 so that operations could start
effectively in early 1994 (Annex 3.5). Part of the technical assistance activities
are scheduled to start during the second half of 1993 and would be supported by Bank
retroactive financing.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
4.01 Total project costs including physical contingencies and expected price
increase, is estimated at US$367 million equivalent (DH 3,306 million), with a
foreign exchange component of US$174 million (tH 1,569 million), or 47 percent of
total costs. Taxes and duties amount to US$75 million equivalent (DH 675 million),
or 20 percent of total cost. Cost estimates are based on February 1992 prices
adjusted to 1993 levels and on an exchange rate of US$1 - 9 DH. They are derived
from costs of similar ongoing activities implemented under LSII-1. Project costs are
summarized in Table 4.1 and detailed in Annex 5.



- 17 -
Tab&lL94.o SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign  Total     Local Foreign Total    I    I Total
Cost
-----DH million-------    ------ US$ million---   F.E.
Investment Costs
Civil Works              894.6   596.4  1,491.0     99.4  66.3  165.7    40      59
Vehioles/Equipment       208.4   349.1   557.5      23.1  38.8  61.9    63       22
Technical Assistance      24.6    57.3    81.9       2.7   6.4   9.1    70       3
Training & Studies        21.4    26.1    47.5       2.4   2.9   5.3    55       2
On-Farm Investments       86.8   114.2   201.0       9.7  12.6  22.3    57       8
Sub-Total           1.235.8  1.143.1  2.378.9    137.3  1270  264.3    48     95
Recurrent Coats           54.3    79.8   134.0       6.0   8.9  14.9   60         5
Base Costs             1.290.1  1.222.9  2.512.9    143.0  135.9  279.2    49   100
Physical Contingencies   166.0   140.0   306.0      18.5  15.5  34.0    46       12
Price Contingencies      280.9   205.8   486.7      31.2  22.9  54.1   42        19
TOTAL COST           1.737.0  1.568.7  3.305.6   193.0  174.3  367.3   47
4.02  Physical contingencies have been estimated at 15, 10 and 5 percent for civil
works, equipment and technical assistance/training respectively. Price contingencies
have been calculated on the basis of projected annual price increases' applied to
local and foreign costs including physical contingencies.
Financin 
4.03 The project would be financed by the Government, the ORMVAs, the beneficia-
ries and the Bank. The proposed Bank loan of US$215 million equivalent would finance
74 percent of total project cost excluding taxes or about 59 percent of total
project costs. Government contribution to the project financing would amount to
US$98 million equivalent and two ORMVAs (Doukkala and Tadla) would contribute
US$35.3 million. The portion of the loan proceeds supporting ORMVA investments,
estimated at US$200 million, would be made available to the ORMVAs on a grant basis.
Farmers would provide equity contributions of US$19 million to finance 70 percent
of on-farm investments for water use efficiency.
4.04 The amount of ORMVA contribution (US$35.3 million) results from Government
agreement on the principle of ORKVA participation in Project financing from the
proceed of water charges and the Bank's conservative estimate of their financing
capacity (Annex 4.3). Provisions are made in the-project to annually adjust ORMVA
contribution in connection with the actual proceeds from water charges (see
Chapter V).
J/ Annual projected prico incieeses are the following (percent):
1994   1995  1996   1997  1998  1999
Local Cos.s   4.4   5.4   5.7   5.2   5.3   5.3
Foreign Costs  2.9   2.7   3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5



- 18 -
4.05 With a view to reducing its contribution to the project, the Government is
currently seeking the parallel cofinancing of a portion of the project related to
the Loukkos and Gharb ORMVAs by the Kreditanstalt f(lr Wiederaufbau (KfW, Germany)
and Caisse francaise de d6veloppement (CDF, France) for an expected amount of
US$14.6 and US$8.4 million equivalent respectively.
Procurement
4.06  Implementing AgenLe_s. Procurement operations would be carried out by the
nine ORMVAs, primarily, and DER, to a minLor extent. All of them have fully
demonstrated their capacity to efficiently handle procurement matters in the context
of the of the first LSII Project. However, in view of the large size of LSII-2,
appropriate measures would be taken to enhance coordination by DER of ORMVA
procurement operations (para. 5.04).
4.07 Civil Works. Contracts for civil works of more than US$5 million, valued at
a total of about US$38 million, would be awarded by the ORMVAs through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts
up to US$5 million, valued at a total of about US$180 million, would be awarded by
the ORMVAs through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures that are acceptable
to the Bank. Contracts for the construction of houses and offices, valued at a total
of about US$1 million would be awarded by DER trough LCB procedures. This would re-
flect the generally small size of contracts, the scattered nature of the project
civil works, and the satisfactory experience of Bank-financed projects in Morocco,
in particular LSII-l.
4.08  Goods.    Contracts
for the purchase of equ-          Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PlROPO  N
ipment  and  vehicles,                            Procurt Metbod        Total
estimated to cost            Project Eleaent     3CB  LCB  Other E.B.F. Cost
US$500,000 equivalent or                               IuS$ amiUou equivalent
more each, valued at a    Civil Works           38   180    -    -       218
total of US$53 million,                         (23)  (108)    -    -    (131)
would be awarded by the    Equipment and Vehicles  53    25    3    -  81
would be awarded by the                         (40)   (18)  (2)   -     (65)
ORMVAs through ICB proce-    Technical Assistance    -  -    12    -      12
dures, in accordance with                        -      -   (12)   -      (12)
Training  ~   -      -    7    -        7
Bank guidelines. Qualify-    Trainin                         (            (7)
ing  domestic  manufactu-    On-farm investment  -      -    -   29       29
rers would receive pre-
ference in bid evaluation    Recurrent cost      -      -    -   20       20
of 15 percent or the pre-    TOTAL              91   205   22   49    367
vailing import duty, whi-                       (68)  (126)  21)   -    (215)
chever is less. Contracts    ( ) : Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the
estimated  to  cost  less           Bank.
than  US$500,000  equiva-    N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
lent but not less  than I
US$30,000 and aggregating
not more than US$25 million could be awarded by the ORMVAs under LCB procedures ac-
ceptable to the Bank. Joint ventures between foreign and local firms would be
encouraged under arrangements acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of miscellaneous
supplies costing less than US$30,000 equivalent each and aggregating not more than
US$3 million equivalent would be made by the ORMVAs and DER on the basis of local
shopping with quotations of at least three suppliers.



- 19 -
4.09 Consultant Services. Contracts for consultant services estimated to total
US$19 million would cover technical assistance and studies (US$12 million) and
training (US$7 million). They would be procured internationally in accordance with
Bank guidelines. ihe Government intends to encourage use of joint ventures between
foreign and local firms under arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
4.10 Private Investments. On-farm civil works and equipment totalling an estimate
US$22 million would be fragmented onto about 10,000 farms and procured separately
by each of the individual farmer or WUA from local contractors and dealers.
4.11 Review of Procurement. All bidding documents and awards of contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2,000,000 or more for   civil works,
US$400,000 or more for goods would require Bank's prior approval. Contracts for
automatic hydraulic control equipment and computer equipment would require Bank's
prior review. These arrangements would represent prior review by the Bank of about
80 percent of total estimated value of contracts. The other contracts would be
subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract award, in the course of
supervision missions.
4.1?  Assurances were obtained durin2 nemotiations that the above procurement
procedures would be followed and detailed arrangements would be consistent with the
agreement accepted by the Government in April 1992 on procur'ment issues.
Disbursement
4.13 Disbursement Scbedule. The pro-
posed Bank loan of US$215 million would           Table 4.3: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
be disbursed over seven fiscal years    Category   Amount of Loan   Percentage of
(the disbursement schedule is in An-                  Allocated     Expenditures
nex 5).  The  disbursement  period  is                (US$ millions)   To be Financed
consistent with profiles for infrastruc-
ture or water supply projects for Moroc-    Civil Works   120       60%
co which generally indicate that seven    Equipment/     57        100% of foreign
years are required for full disburse-    Vehicles                   expenditures and
ment. It is also in line with the les-                              70% of local
sons learned from LSII-1 which confirmed                            expenditures
the ORMVAs' satisfactory implementation    Training,     19         100%
capacity for physical investments. This    Technical
profile is considered as realistic since    Assistance,
profile iscniee  sraitcsne                  Studies
the bidding documents  for the major    Unallocated    19
civil work contracts would be available
by project effectiveness. The proposed    TOTAL         215
closing date of the loan would be Decem-
ber 2000.
4.14 Disbursement Procedures. Disbursement would be made after receipt of full
documentation except for goods provided under contracts valued below US$100,000
equivalent. For these smaller contracts, disbursements would be made against
certified Statements of Expenditures (SOE). The SOE would be certified by DER and
made available for inspection during Bank missions and by external auditors.
Disbursement categories and amount allocated would be as indicated in Table 4.3.
4.15 To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened in the Treasury
for the purpose of the project. The Bank would deposit an initial sum of up to
US$10 million corresponding to the Bank's share of 3-4 months project needs,
excluding large contracts. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that



- 20 -
disbursement operations from the Special Account would be made in accordance with
Bank guidelines and eiisting arrangements agreed upon by the Bank and MOF.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY REFORMS
A. Proiect Organization
5.01 Lines of Responsibility. Operational responsibility for project implementa-
tion would be split betw an DER and the ORMVAs, under MARA supervision, with overall
rdtfla retained by DER (as set uy for  I±-±). Together with MARA, MOF would
be involved in monitoring ORMVAs' financial performance, and MOI, MOPW and MOPH in
monitoring LSI environmental impact. Financing of on-farm investments would be
assisted by the banking sector as required. 'Three interministerial committees would
be created to assist MARA in project coordination, namely the National Project
Coordination Committee (CNCP), the Project Monitoring Committee (CSP) and the
Committee for Environmental Protection (CPE).
The ORMVAs
5.02 Each ORMVA would be responsible for planning, budgeting and implementing its
respective portion of the project, including: (a) infrastructure rehabilitation;
(b) management improvement; (c) on-farm water use efficiency improvement; and
(d) monitoring the environmental impact.
5.03 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) not later than
January 31, 1994, each ORMVA would submit to the Bank for comments a three-year
action plan setting out all activities to be implemented under the project, and
thereafter update this plan annually; and (b) not later than June 30 each year
starting in 1994, submit to the Bank for comments a statement reflecting the
financial performance in the preceding fiscal year as set out in Annex 4.4.
DER
5.04 DER would have the overall responsibility for supervising project implementa-
tion in the following three areas:
(a)   Project  coordination.    DER  would  have  the  responsibility  for:
(i) planning,   budgeting,   and   accounting   of  project   expenditures,
(ii) coordinating ORMVA training and procurement operations under the
project, (iii) ensuring participation of other ministries and agencies, and
(iv) reporting to the Bank or. progress on project implementation;
(b)  monitoring of ORMVA nerformance.  With the cooperation of CNCP, CSP and
CPE, DER would annually: (i) review and assess ORMVA technical and financial
performance on MIP implementation, water charge collection, O&M, water user
associations creation, water use efficiency improvement and environmental
monitoring plan implementation, and (ii) approve ORMVA financial contribution
to the project; and
(c)  DreRaring policy reforms. With the cooperation of CNCP, DER would be
responsible for preparation of the preliminary sLudies, consultation of all
involved institutions and submission of draft regulations to appropriate
Government bodies.
5.05 The implementation of these activities would be delegated by DER to the
Service for LSI Improvement (SAGI) recently created within DER with the specific



- 21 -
function of supervising LSII-2 implementation. An understanding was reached prior
to the negotiations on SAGI structure and functions.
5.06   MARA.  MARA would be responsible for direct approval, or processing in view
of Government approval, of the proposed policy reforms.
5.07  National Committee for Project Coordination. Monitoring project implementa-
tion, ORMVA performance and preparation of the policy reforms would be accomplished
by assigning an apex supervisory role to the National Committee for Project
Coordination (CNCP). CNCP would be chaired by the MARA's secretary general and
include MARA directors involved in LSI, representatives of the other ministries
i-nvolved in the Project,  in particular MOF, MOI, MOPH and MPW, and the ORMVA
directors. CNCP would meet once a year, with its secretariat covered by DER.
5.08  Project Monitoring Committee. The Project Monitoring Committee (CSP) would
review the financial performance of the ORMVAs and make recommendations in this
respect to CNCP. CSP would be chaired by MARt.'s secretary general and would include
the heads of MARA's and MOF's Directorates involved in LSI financial aspects. CSP
would meet twir a year with its secretariat covered by DER.
5.09 Committee for Environmental Protection. To ensure effective participation of
other ministries in the monitoring of LSI environmental impact and review of the
environmental mitigation measures, the Government would establish the Committee for
Environmental Protection (CPE), including MARA, MOI, MOPH, MOPW and the ORMVAs. CPE
would be chaired by the Director of DER and would meet on an ad hoc basis, not less
than twice a year.
5.10 An understanding was reached prior to the, negotiations on the mandate and
operational procedures of CNCP, CSP and CPE. Establishment of SAGI with staff whose
number, qualification and experience are acceptable to the Bank and establishment
of CNCP and CSP with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would
be conditions of effectiveness.
B. Legal Documents and Mid-Term Review
5.11 The project would support the development of the ORMVAs' autonomy and the
enhancement of MARA's regulatory function, while ensuring full ownership of the
institutional reforms by the concerned agencies. Particular attention would be given
to supporting Government policy for decentralization. Furthermore, flexibility would
be required to adjust the project design to unforeseen circumstances occurring
during the six-year implementation period. Finally, Bank leverage would be enforced
by carefully targeted covenants.
5.12 Leeal Documents. The legal documents would, for the first time in Bank
lending to LSI, establish the basis for a direct dialogue with all parties involved
in the project, namely the Government and the ORMVAs. To this end, the Government
and the Bank would enter into a loan agreement which would provide, among other
things, for the strengthening of MARA's regulatory function and passing on to the
ORMVAs a portion of the loan on a grant basis. The Bank would also enter into a
proiect agreement with all the ORMVAs, pursuant to which the MARA, as a first step
of the decentralization process, would delegate t6 the ORMVAs the responsibility to
carry out parts of the project in accordance with certain terms and conditions.
5.13 Mid-Term review. Because of the length of the project (six years), the
uncertainties normally encountered during implementation of such complex invest-
ments, and the delicate policy and institutional reforms contemplated, it would be
prudent, despite substantial resources to be allocated to Bank supervision



- 22 -
(supervision input is detailed in Annex 5.6), to have a pivotal decision point
during the project implementation period where progress could be evaluated. In
particular, the results of the decentralization process would be assessed and
possible acceleration considered. Assurances were obtained d1uring negotiations that
overall progress in project implementation would be reviewed, not later than
December 31,1996, at a high-level joint mid-term review meeting. This assessment
might result in directing more resources to ORMVAs that have successfully carried
out both the physical and institutional components of the project, and providing the
possibility of direct financing of further investments to the ORMVAs that have
impproved their financial situation. An understanding was reached during negotiations
on the performance criteria to be considered by the Bank to assess ORMVA eligibility
for future Bank direct lending (Annex 8).
C. Infrastructure Rehabilitation
5.14 In view of the size and complexity of the'physical rehabilitation program,
ORMVA implementation capacity should be enhanced by consultant assistance for the
final design and execution supervision of large reconstruction works and subsutface
drainage systems to be implemented by the Doukkala, Gharb, Moulouya and Tadla
ORMVAs.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consultants would be
employed by the above ORMVAs and that no contract would be awarded for rehabilita-
tion work prior to approval by the Bank of consultants' terms of reference.
D. ORMVA Management
5.15 Management Instruments. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
consultants would be employed under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank:
(a) by the Haouz, Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet ORMVAs, to submit
recommendations for MIS installation not later than June 30, 1995; (b) by the
Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos and Moulouya ORMVAs, to submit recommendations for
installation of a computer-assisted maintenance system for pumping equipment not
later than June 30, 1995; and (c) by the nine ORMVAs, to install operation and
maintenance systems for water distribution facilities not later than June 30, 1995.
5.16  Divestiture from Maintenance Activities.   Involving the private sector in
recurrent maintenance activities is a critical factor for improving efficiency and
cost-effectiveness of the maintenance operations. Successful efforts under LSII-l
to introduce maintenance contracts for pumping equipment would be expanded to
canals, roads and related structures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that, not later than March 31, 1994 and prior to acquiring vehicles and maintenance
equipment, each ORMVA would present an action plan acceptable to the Bank for
gradual contracting to the private sector selected maintenance activities.
5.17 Accounting of Water Charge Collection. LSII-1 showed significant inconsisten-
cies in implementing and accounting for water charge billing and collection which
make difficult an accurate assessment of ORMVA performance on cost recovery.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, not later than June 30, 1994,
consistent accounting statements for the billing and collection of water charges
would be prepared for the year 1992 by Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos, Haouz, Moulouya,
Souss-Massa and Tadla ORMVAs and submitted to the Bank for comments.
5.18  Water Charge Collection.   The Government intends to improve water charge
collection rates to increase ORMVA financial autonomy and reduce the budget
subsidies for O&M. MARA projections expect the ORMVAs to recover, on average, up to
91 percent of water charges in 1999, including arrears, compared to the current



- 23 -
79 percent (Annex 4.2). Assurances were obtained during nezotiations that each ORMVA
would take adequate measures to achieve the targeted collection rates. The review
of ORMVA performance in this respect would be carried out each year by CSP.
5.19 Payment of Energy. Under LSII-1, the ORMVAs paid off their energy arrears
to the National Authority for Energy  (ONE). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that timely payment of ONE's energy bills would continue to be made by
the ORMVAs each year to avoid new arrears. ORMVAs' performance in this respect would
be submitted to CSP for evaluation.
E. Cost Recovery
5.20 Water Charges and Land Betterment Levy. With the exception of Doukkala and
Tadla, the water charges (volume charge and pumping fees) at the current level set
by MARA do not cover the true O&M costs (paras. 2.18-2.19). This deficiency induces
a systematic financial deficit for the ORMVAs and, consequently, a recurrent fiscal
burden as Government compensates for the annual operating losses and periodically
finances infrastructure replacement or rehabilitation. Furthermore, the level of the
land betterment levy is too low to recover a significant portion of the initial
investment. An increase of both water charges and the land betterment levy is
required to strengthen LSI sustainability.
5.21 Government ApDroach. In view of the complexity of the issues associated with
water pricing and their far-reaching implications, a three-step approach would be
supported by the project. This strategy was discussed at length with the Government
during project preparation. In a first step, a 20 percent increase of the volume
charge was approved and enforced in 1992 to narrow the gap. In a second sten
(para. 5.22), the Government would further increase the current level of the water
charges within the framework of the existing legislation with the objective of
offsetting the current operating losses. In a third step (para. 5.34) and as part
of the policy reforms supporting LSI long-term sustainability, the Government would
restructure the water pricing system to better address the longer term issue of
intersectoral competition and the mounting water scarcity in Morocco. In parallel,
the methodology to calculate the land betterment levy would be modified. Also, in
a joint Government/Bank water sector study supported by a Japanese grant, inter-
sectoral water allocation, water resource development, and demand management would
be further addressed.
5.22 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would:
(a) not later than December 31, 1993, submit to the Bank for comments an analysis
of the true O&M costs for each ORMVA; (b) not later than June 1994, submit to the
Bank for comments: (i) an action plan to raise the level of the water charges in
conformity with the existing legislation so that, for each individual ORMVA, the
volume charge and the pumping fee cover 100 percent of true O&M costs and a
reasonable portion of depreciation costs, and (ii) a revised methodology to
calculate the land betterment levy; (c) not later than December 31, 1994, put into
effect the revised level of the land betterment levy; and (d) not later than
June 30, 1995, start implementing the action plan to increase the water charges.
F. ORNVA Contribution to Project Financing
5.23 Government recently announced its decision to enforce ORMVA financial
participation in rehabilitation expenditures when the amount collected from water
charges exceeds O&M costs. Based on Bank estimates, only the Doukkala and Tadla
ORMVAs would currently be in a position to contribute to the financing of their



- 24 -
respective portion of rehabilitation, at a level conservatively estimated at
US$8.7 million and US$26.6 million, respectively, over the six-year project
implementation period (Annex 4.1 and para. 4.04). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (a) each of the seven ORMVAs engaged in water sale would allocate
its entire net income to the financing of its respective part of the rehabilitation
program supported by the project (the net income represents the difference between
the total income from water charges and land betterment levy, on the one hand, and
the operating cost and overheads for water distribution, on the other hand). The
amount of planned and actual ORMVA contributions would be assessed by CSP every
year.
G. ORNVA-Government Relations
5.24  Management Improvement Plans.   Following the successful preparation and
negotiation under LSII-1 of two MIPs for the Doukkala and Tadla ORMVAs, Government
confirmed its commitment to streamlining its relationship with the ORMVAs through
the signing of MIPs with the remaining seven ORMVAs. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (a) not latei than December 1995, draft MIPs for Gharb, Haouz,
Loukkos, Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet would be submitted to the
Bank for comments; and (b) not later than December, 31, 1996, said MIPs would be
officially adopted.
H. Water Use Efficiency Improvement
5.25   On-Farm Demonstrations and Investments.  On-farm demonstrations of water
conservation methods would be carried out by the nine ORMVAs. On-farm investments
to improve irrigation equipment would be farmers' responsibility and would be
financed by the Moroccan banking system. In view of the innovative aspect of this
program, careful monitoring and evaluation would be required from DER. Progress
would be reviewed by CNCP.
5.26 Rehabilitation of Farm Hydrants. Improving the water delivery and metering
systems for sprinkler-irrigated areas might require significant changes in the
distribution pipes, the layout of the consolidated farms and the current policies
for water delivery. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) not later
than June 30 1995, each ORMVA engaged in sprinkler irrigation would submit to the
Bank a comprehensive study proposing the technical and institutional arrangements
required for hydrant rehabilitation; and (b) each ORMVA would take measures to
ensure that contracts for the provision of new metering equipment are awarded only
after the Bank has approved the above-mentioned proposal.
5.27 Water User Associations. The project woutld support WUA organization and
strengthening, started under LSII-1, to increase farmer participation in O&M,
facilitate implementation of water conservation measures and, more importantly,
improve the dialogue between ORMVAs and the farming community. DER would review
annually the results of this component and submit its conclusions and recommenda-
tions to CNCP.
I. Environmental Protection
5.28 Proiect Environmental Impact. The project has been placed in environmental
screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01
"Environmental Assessment". The project was the subject of a field-based environmen-
tal review which concluded that the project would have a positive impact on
environmental conditions. The project would improve land and water use through



- 25 -
investments in the rehabilitation of infrastructure, promotion of improved water and
land management, support for special studies, and institutional strengthening and
training. In addition, actions supported under the Project would reduce the negative
impacts of salinization, recharge groundwater aquifers, improve drainage and protect
palm groves. Improved water management would lead to a reduction in vector habitat
for snails associated with transmission of schistosomiasis and mosquitoes associated
with the transmission of malaria. It would alsd include measures to reduce the
discharge of fertilizers and pesticides to surface and groundwater sources from LSI
areas.
5.29 Environmental Monitoring. The project would support a comprehensive set of
mitigation measures, the creation of an environmental monitoring system and tie
development of an environmental management structure for LSI. In addition, it would
facilitate improved coordination of environmental protection in the irrigation
sector through the creation of CPE, inclusion of an environmental unit in SAGI to
supervise the environmental work of the ORMVAs and liaise with the other Ministries,
and a Bureau for Environmental Protection in each ORMVA to monitor irrigation
environmental impact. The findings and recommendations of the Sectoral Environmental
Assessment (para. 2.25), prepared to support long-term environmental planning of LSI
in Morocco, would provide a broad framework for many project activities.
5.30 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) each ORMVA would
submit to the Bank for comments a detailed environmental monitoring plan to be
implemented as outlined in Annex 7, and subsequently commence its implementation;
(b) CPE would review, on a semi-annual basis, progress in environmental monitoring
by the ORMVAs and submit its conclusions and recommendations to the Bank; (c) not
later than December 31, 1994, DER would submit to the Bank for comments an
integrated water management plan for the Souss aquifer to be implemented promptly
thereof; and (d) the Souss-Massa ORMVA take measures to ensure that contracts for
the replacement of tubewells, as supported by the project, be awarded only after
implementation of the above management plan.
J. Policy Reforms for LSI Long-Term Sustainability
5.31 The project would support the implementation of subsectoral policy reforms
aimed at ensuring LSI long-term sustainability. An understanding was reached during
negotiations that the Government would implement the reforms described below.
5.32 Water Delivery to Farmers. Both farmers and ORMVAs would greatly benefit
from phasing out ORMVA informal practices for water distribution to farmers. To this
end, the Government would, not later then June 30, 1994, submit to the Bank for
comments an action plan to improve the water delivery conditions to the farmers and
subsequently adopt this action plan.
5.33 Lone-Term Rehabilitation Options. The periodic replacement of equipment and
the major repairs on structures need careful long-term planning in view of the cost
involved and related financing aspects. The Government would, not later than
December 31, 1995, submit to the Bank for comments a study reviewing and discussing
the options for Long-term rehabilitation and subsequently adopt the most appropriate
option.
5.34  Water Tariff Restructurint.  In a broader perspective, the water pricing
system for LSI should reflect the growing competition for water from other sectors
of the economy and the increasing cost for developing additional water resources.
The restructuring of the current tariff would be the third step of the Government
strategy to rationalize LSI water pricing (para. 5.21). The Government would:



- 26 -
(a) not later than December 31, 1995, submit to the Bank for comments a study on
water pricing for LSI, and (b) not later than December 31, 1997, adopt an action
plan to modify the current tariff structure.
5.35  Institutional Framework.  Over more than two decades, LSI development has
been based on legislation enacted, and institutions established in 1969. The
Government realizes that the evolution of LSI policy, including ORMVA divestiture
from commercial activities, liberalization of cropping patterns, promotion of farmer
associations, reduction of budget transfer to, and increased autonomy of, the ORMVAs
calls for a revision of the LSI institutional framework. Government would, not later
than .Tune 30, 1996, submit to the Rank for rommAntts a stildy identifvino an.d
analyzing the options for improving the LSI instituti'nal framework and subsequently
adopt an action plan relevant to this matter.
VI. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Benefits and Benefitiaries
6.01  Overview. Direct quantifiable project benefits would arise from: (a) increas-
ed agricultural and livestock production as rehabilitation of canals, drainage and
the irrigation network increases water availability and reliability; (b) savings in
O&M expenditures resulting from replacement of pumps and equipment, improved mainta-
nance and reduced water losses; (c) lower transport costs because of improvements
in feeder roads; (d) water savings from more efficient on-farm water use; (e) more
efficient allocation of water resulting from water charges closer to opportunity
cost; and (f) reduced Government subsidies through higher revenues for the ORMVAs
from increased cost recovery. In addition, employment would be created from
construction of public works under the project and incremental labor needed to
support higher levels of agricultural production. By raising income of small
farmers, the project would reduce poverty.
6.02 Finally, by supporting the strengthening of LSI institutional structure and
promoting decentralization and accountability, the project would have a significant
impact, in the short term, on reducing operating losses of the ORMVAs and, more
importantly, in the long term, on enhancing the sustainability of the LSI subsector.
6.03 Impact on Agricultural Production. Increased and more dependable water
availability and improved drainage would enable farmers to expand high value crops,
increase cropping intensity and improve yields on an aggregate impact area of about
125,000 ha. At full development, incremental annual production in the impact area
is expected to reach 248,000 tons of sugar beet, 140,000 tons of vegetables,
113,000 tons of citrus, 15,000 tons of olives, and 5,800 tons of dates and other
fruit; wheat would increase by 27,000 tons, maize and other cereals by 5,800 tons,
and cotton and other arable crops by 4,500 tons. This represents an increase of
8 percent for wheat, 11 percent for sugar beet and 20 percent for citrus and
vegetables. Cropped area in seven ORMVAs would increase by about 25,000 ha or
6 percent. Forage production is expected to increase by 45 million forage units
which translates into 11 million liters of milk and 970 tons of meat. The value of
incremental crop and livestock production at full development is estimated at
DH 600 million in 1991 prices.
6.04 O&M Cost Savings. By replacing existing old pumps and equipment with new high
efficiency pumps on 128,000 ha and improving maintenance in five ORMVAs, the project
would lower their O&M expenditures, providing significant savings in pumping costs.
Present O&M cost is estimated at 1,000 DH/ha and 4,500 DH/ha for surface and



- 27 -
sprinkler irrigation respectively. The new pumps would decrease costs to 880 DH/ha
and 4,000 DH/ha.
6.05  Transport Cost Savings.   Improving rural roads would give farmers more
dependable access to marketn, particularly for high-value, perishable fruit and
vegetables. Rehabilitating 1,060 km of roads serving 102,000 ha is an integral part
of the investment package required to maximize agricultural benefits from the
project. Savings on transport costs would be in'the range of 25 to 46 percent of
current average transport cost estimated at 1.3 DH/ton/km.
6.06 Beneficiaries and Impact on Poverty. Increased production from scheme
rehabilitation would directly benefit about 32,400 of 125,000 farm families living
in the project area, of which 50 percent own less than 2 ha. Some 25 percent of
beneficiaries in the project area, or about 8,000 families, live below the rural
poverty threshold of DH 2,250 (US$250). The poor, and especially the landless, would
also benefit from additional employment opportunities created by the project. Agr-
icultural intensification on the rehabilitated areas would generate about 5,000
additional person-years of employment per annum while temporary off-farm employment
created during project implementation is estimated at another 5,000 person-years.
B. Marketing and Prices
6.07 Markets. Projections of Morocco's food balance indicate that it will continue
to be a net importer of basic agricultural commodities, mainly cereals, sugar,
powder milk and edible oils. During 1985-90 food imports averaged US$500 million,
20 percent of total merchandise imports. The large unmet demand for fruits and
vegetables, shown by high domestic prices, is expected to continue because of high
population growth and rising incomes. The incremental production generated by the
project would satisfy only part of this growing demand. Another part of the
production from the project - particularly in high-valued agricultural products -
would be demanded by the expanding export market'for Moroccan produce.
6.08  Marketing.  Both Government and private interests procure and market farm
input and output. Marketing, storage and processing of wheat, cotton, sugar and
oilseeds is handled by marketing boards. Farmers sell other products such as
vegetables, fruit, some oilseeds, milk and meat to private dealers and processors
at farm gate or village markets. The marketing chain includes a wide network of town
markets that channel agricultural commodities from villages to urban centers and are
adequate to handle the project's estimated increased output. With improvements in
rural road networks envisaged under the project, no major problems in marketing
incremental production are envisaged.
6.09 Prices. Under its structural adjustment program, Morocco has liberalized
agricultural producer prices, opened the trade regime and eliminated most price
controls. Although price stabilization schemes are in place at the border, internal
producer prices for most cereals and other traded commodities are freely determined
in the market. The prices of sugar and cotton, currently set by the Government, are
expected to be liberalized by 1993. All farm inputs except certain seeds are now
available to farmers at market-determined prices.
C. Financial Impact
Farm Income
6.10 The impact of the project's rehabilitation component on farm incomes was
assessed by evaluating the financial returns of each scheme using detailed crop bud-



-28-
gets and comparing cropping with and without the project. Based on sample farm mod-
els representing 80 percent of the land area, farm incomes would be expected to rise
by a minimum of 20 percent, with increases of up to more than 100 percent in irri-
gation systems which are currently unable to deliver water, as in the Triffa
(Moulouya) and PTI (Gharb), or schemes planned for expansion, as in Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet. These potential financial returns would provide strong incentives to area
farmers to increase production.
6.11 The viability of investments in efficient on-farm water use has been analyzed
using six models covering surface and sprinkler irrigation for the major crops (sug-
ar beet, sugarcane, wheat, summer and winter vegetables). The results of the
analysis indicate that farmers in most areas would have sufficient financial in-
centives to invest in improving sprinkler irrigation because of the high cost of
pressurized water. Also improved water use on surface irrigation would result in in-
creased yields sufficient to encourage farmers to invest. In Loukkos, however,
savings on very expensive water would not be sufficient to make sprinkler irrigation
attractive unless higher value crops are introduced.
Inmact on ORMVA Finances
6.12 Cost recovery is expected to increase greatly under the project as water
deliveries, unit water charges, and collection rates all rise. Water charges billed
to the farmers are expected to increase from DH 520 million a year in 1991-92 to
620 million at the end of the project while collection rates would increase from 79
to 91 percent. As a result, the amount recovered by the ORMVAs would increase
40 percent, from DH 410 million in 1992 to DH 570 million.
6.13 Increased cost recovery would more than offset the increase in O&M cost under
the project and enable the ORMVAs to cover the entire O&M (the operating losses are
currently DH 50 million per year). Although significant savings in 06M of electrical
and pumping equipment are expected from rehabilitating pumping stations, overall O&M
expenditures will increase from DH 440 million to DH 530 million (20 percent)
because of additional - but highly cost-effective - preventive maintenance. The
increased revenues would enable the ORMVAs to gradually contribute to financing the
depreciation of the assets i.e. the rehabilitations of infrastructure at an
estimated level of DH 60 million in 1998. The Government realizes that achieving
this objective is of utmost importance for the long-term financial sustainability
and success of the LSI schemes.
D. Economic AnalXsis
6.14 Economic analyses have been carried out on about 65 percent of project
expenditures covering rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure. Project
expenditures for institution strengthening and policy reforms with far reaching
impact are not amenable to conventional economic analysis largely because of the
difficulty of quantifying and allocating costs and benefits. The pilot program to
be implemented to demonstrate water savings from more efficient: water use and other
relatively small expenditures such as minor repairs, and procurement of small
machinery and equipment have not been included in the economic analysis.
6.15 Project expenditures for rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure have been
divided into four subcomponents : (a) integrated rehabilitation (main canals,
irrigation network, and rural roads); (b) partial rehabilitation (irrigation network
and/or rural roads); (c) flood irrigation rehabilitation (diversion structures and
canals); and (d) renovating pumping stations. Each sub-component covers several



- 29 -
irrigation schemes, and separate economic evaluations have been carried to determine
their viability.
6.16  The weighted average eco-
nomic rate of return (ERR) for               Table 6. L agEm^ DtRAW o
the infrastructure rehabilita-                         W.U.t1d Avasze    Peramt of
tion component is estimated at                         campmnt am (X)     zoject
23 percent and the net present                                           Cost
value (NPV) at DH 990 million.      aftstut  h^zinuo   l                    Ms
The economic rates of return for      Dsustbd ftMa.R ubab.    20           40
project expenditures under the          utlarl RtuabLltatiua  24           10
rehabilitation  component  are        Sfu R0l10atim          L             s
shown in Table 6.1. (ERR for i -
dividual schemes and the main
assumptions underlying the eco-
nomic analyses are in Annex 6).
Sensitivity and Risks
6.17 Sensitivity analysis has been done on the viability of the schemes. The
sensitivity of individual schemes to changes in benefits and costs varies widely,
as would be expected from project activities spread over nine ORMVAs. Switching
values have been calculated for the infrastructure rehabilitation component and
tested against variations in key variables (Annex 6).
6.18 The results show that, at a discount rate of 11 percent, economic returns of
these schemes are relatively insensitive to cost overruns and to reduced benefits
from lower production. Costs would have to rise over 60 percent, or benefits drop
40 percent compared to appraisal values to make the investments non-viable. An
increase of more than 60 percent in construction cost is considered unlikely because
project design is at an advanced stage and the ORMVAs possess a good implementation
capacity. The most critical determinants in the viability of the schemes selected
for rehabilitation are the availability and reliability of irrigation water supply
and their sustainability. A 20 percent decrease in both costs and benefits would
reduce the average ERR for these schemes to 13 percent, which remains economically
viable.
6.19 Risks. Project risks are mainly associated with delays in construction and
institutional building. Other institutional risks include slower than expected
improvement in ORMVA management and insufficient cost recovery or budget appropria-
tion by the Government to the ORNVAs. The risk that implementation of the physical
components will be delayed is small, as most rehabilitation design work is
substantially completed. The risks of delay in institution building components are
limited, as the ORMVAs have already made detailed training and implementation plans
during project preparation. In addition, consultant services under the technical
assistance component of the project should help reduce risks in improving ORMVA
management capabilities. The Government commitment to LSI and to the financial
viability of the OFMVAs should reduce other institutional and budgetary risks.
Nevertheless, the risk remains that a deterioration of the Government's overall
fiscal balance would require a cutback in all investments, including for rehabilita-
tion of irrigation schemes. During the mid-term review, a broad assessment of
project implementation and financing would be undertaken with the view to
restructuring the project if needed.   In addition,  the project's monitoring
mechanisms are expected to reduce risks in general by identifying early potential
problems, including those associated with institutional building and financing.



- 30 -
6.20  Environmental ImRact. The project builds on existing infrastructure and
improved system operation, in particular for water management. In addition, it would
reduce the negative impact of salinization, improve drainage and protect palm
groves. Improved water management would reduce vector habitat for snails associated
with schistosomiasis and mosquitoes associated with transmission of malaria.
However, an environmental risk does exist from increased levels of groundwater
pollution by fertilizers and pesticides unless proper land and water management
practices are adopted. Provisions have been made for systematic monitoring of the
environmental impact of irrigation on areas surrounding schemes under operating
guidelines to be defined by sectoral environmental assessment (see Chapter V).
Vil.  AGREEMENTS REACHUE  AT NEGOTIATIONS
7.01 Establishment of SAGI with staff whose number, qualification and experience
are acceptable to the Bank and establishment of CNCP and CSP with membership and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would be conditions of effectiveness
7.02 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would:
(a) hold a joint mid-term review (para. 5.13);
(b) im?lement an action plan to increase water charges and land betterment
levy (para. 5.22);
(c) sign MIPs with seven ORMVAs (para. 5.24); and
(ci) implement a water management plan for the Souss aquifer (para. 5.30);
7.G3  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the ORMVAs would:
(a) Submit and annually update the three-year revolving action plan and the
statement on the ORMVAs' financial performance (para. 5.03);
(b) employ consultants to assist in final design of rehabilitation works
and subsurface drainage (para. 5.14);
(c) employ consultants to establish new management instruments for
accounting and O&M (para. 5.15);
(d)  implement a divestiture plan from O&M activities (para. 5.16);
(e) prepare consistent accounting statements for water charge billing and
collection (para. 5.17);
(f) increase collection rate of water charges (para. 5.18);
(g) make timely payments of energy bills for pumping (para. 5.19);
(h) allocate the net income from cost recovery to project financing
(para. 5.23);
(i) submit proposals for hydrant rehabilitation (para. 5.26); and
(j) implement an environmental monitoring plan (para. 5.30).



- 31 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Annexes -
Annex 1      List of Bank and IDA Projects in Agriculture
Annex 2.1    ORMVAs' Performance
Annex 2.2    Recovery of Water Charges by the ORMVAs
Annex 2.3    Financial Situation of the ORMVAs
Annex 3.1    Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Annex 3.2    Equipment and Buildings for ORMVAs' Strengthening
Annex 3.3    Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
Annex 3.4    Improvement of Irrigation Techniques
Annex 3.5    Implementation Schedule
Annex 3.6 : Level of Project Preparation
Annex 4.1 : Cash Flow of the ORMVAs
Annex 4.2 : Projected Recovery of Water Charges
Annex 4.3 : ORMVAs' Contribution to Project Financing
Annex 4.4 : Performance Indicators for ORMVA Management
Annex 5.1 : Total Summary Accounts
Annex 5.2 : Baseline Costs by ORMVA
Annex 5.3 : Summary Accounts per Year Including Contingencies
Annex 5.4 : Cost by Component
Annex 5.5 : Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 5.6 : Supervision Plan - Supervision Input Into Key Activities
Annex 6      Economic Analysis
Annex 7   : Environmental Aspects
Annex 8   : Criteria for ORMVA Eligibility for Direct Bank Lending
Annex 9   : Summary Terms of Reference for Consultant Studies



- 32                                Annex: 1
STAF APPRAXSAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PRQJECT
List of Bank and IDA Projects in Agriculture
Original
Loan       Sector and Project              Signed FY   Status      Loan Amount
No.                                                               (US$ million)
I.   Irrigation
1.   Sidi Slimane                     65       Completed        17.50
9.   Sebou                            70       Completed        46.00
3.   Souss Groundwater                75       Completed        18.50
4.   Doukkala I                       76       Completed        30.00
5.   Doukkala II                      77       Completed        41.00
2253   6.   Small and Medium Scale I          83      Ongoing           42.00
2954   7.   Small and Medium Scale II         88      Ongoing           23.00
2656   8.   Large Scale Irrigation Improv. 86         Ongoing           46.00
Subtotal:       264.00
II.  Agricultural Credit
9.   First                            66       Completed        10.00
10.  Second                           73       Completed        10.00
11.  Third                            77       Completed        35.00
12.  Fourth                           79       Completed        70.00
13.  Fifth                            84       Completed       115.40
14.  Sixth                            86       Completed       120.00
3088   15.  Seventh                           89      Ongoing           90.Q00
Subtotal:       550.40
III. Rainfed Agric. Develooment
16.  Meknes (IDA)                     75       Completed        14.00
17.  Loukkos                          81       Completed        34.00
18.  F&s-Karia Tissa                  79       Completed        65.00
19.  Middle Atlas                     82       Completed        29.00
2217   20.  Oulmes-Rommani                    83      On going          30.00
Subtotal:       172.00
IV. Other Projects
21.  Sebou II                         74       Completed        32.00
22.  Vegetable and Marketing          80       Completed        58.00
23.  Forestry I                       82       Completed        27.50
3036   26.  Agric. Research and Extension  89         Ongoing           28.00
3156   27.  Forestry II                       90      Ongoing           49.00
Subtotal:       194.50
V. Sector Loans
2590   24. ASAL I                             85       Completed       100.00
2885   25. ASAL II                            88      Ongoing          225.00
3403   28. ASIL                               92      Ongoing           50.00
Subtotal:       375.00
GRAND TOTAL: 1.555.90



- 33 -
Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KrNGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ORMVAs' Performance
(a) Irrigable Area in the LSI Schemes
Modern Systems
Scheme                         Total                                                                   Improved
(ORMVA)         Annual        Irrigable          Surface           Sprinkler                          Traditional
Rainfall         Area            Irrigation         Irrigation           Total           Systems
(mm)           (ha)              (ha)                (ha)              (ha)             (ha)
Doukkala             350          61,000             27,500             33,500            61,000               _
Gharb                550          85,000             69,500             16.300            85,800               -
Haouz                300          77,400             47,100                 300           47,400            30,000
Loukkos              700          19,400                -               19,400            19,400               -
Moulouya             350          65,300             51,000             14,300            65,300               -
Ouarzazate           100          26.400                400                -                  400           26,000
Souss-Massa          250          32.700                -               30,500            30,500            2,200
Tadla                250          97,000             97,000                -              97,000               -
Tafilalet            150          20,800             1,500         _       -               1,500            19,300
Total                            485,800            294,000         114,300              408,300            77,500
(b)  CropRing Patterns
Doukkala      Gharb        Haouz       Loukkos      Moulouya    Souss-M.         Tadla        TOTAL
Cereals          25.700       24,600       11,500          800       14,200        17,700        47,500       142,000
Legumes             -          4,000          500        6,100          -             -            -           10,600
Sugar beet       14,500        7,100         -             -          4,000           -         19,400        45,000
Sugarcane           -          9,500         -           5,700        1,100           -            -           16,300
Cotton            1,100        1,600        1,900          -             100          -          11,500        16,200
Vegetables       16,600        2,200        1.900        2,200        8,900         4,000        10,100        45,900
Forages          11,900        9,900        2,600          600        3.000         2,100        18,000        48,100
Tree Crops           100       9,600       14.500          400       17,800         2,800        17,400        62,600
Others            4.800       10.600          -            -          2,900         1.700           800        20,800
Total_        74,700       79,100      32,900       15,800        52,000        28.300       124,700      407,500
Cropping        125 %         92 %        69 %         101 %         88 %         87 %          129 %        102 %
Intensity                                       _              .                                      .



- 34 -
Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 2
(c) Land Distribution
l_____ _  c 5 ha              5-20 ha               > 20 ha
No.        Area       No.       Area        No.       Area         Total No.          Average
X          X          %          X          %          %          of Farms          Size (ha)
Doukkala            84          48         15         13          1         12           24,100              2.5
Gharb                85         43         13         23          2         33           19.700              3.8
Haouz                66         21         33         63          1         16            8,400              3.0
Loukkos              28         12         70         74          2         14            2,400              5.7
Moulouya             66         28         31         43          2         29            9,200              5.6
Souss-Massa          56         15         38         42          6         43            4,800              6.8
Tadla                82         34         16         32          3         34           22,800              4.3
Average           . 77          34         21         38          2         28           91,400              3.9
(d)  Increase of Water and Pumping Charges (DH/m3)
1984               1986                1988                1990
Water Charges:   Range                       0.07-0.09           0.10-0.12           0.11-0.13           0.12-0.14
Index                        100                 126                 137                 147
Pumping Charges: Range                       0.04-0.15           0.06-0.24           0.07-0.25           0.06-0.24
Index                         100                162                 169                 138
GDP deflator                                     100                 123                124                 143
(e) Water Charges Compared to Costs of Water (1990 - DH/m3)
Tadla          Ooukkala    |   Souss-M.          Loukkos
Official water price (OH/m3)                       0.12             0.21             0.28             0.38
(1) Actual water cost,3excluding                         0.04              0.20            0.62             0.59
depreciation (DH/m )
(2) Actual water cost, including0.07                                       0.32            1.28              0.80
depreciation (DH/r3)
Billed as % of (2)                                    276              108              46               65
Billed as % of (3)                                   10               66               22               47
Source:(a)Xb)X0c)d):DER; (e):Bank estimate.



- 35 -
Annex 2.2
Page 1 o2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGf-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
RECOVERY OF WATER CHARGES BY THE ORMVAS tnrdudina Anerre                      OH million
WATER CHARGE/a                       LAND BETTERMENT LEVY                               TOTAL
%      Unpaid                           %k      Unpaid                          %        Unpaid
ORMVA    Charged  Recovered  Recoverod Balance   Charged  Recovered  PRcoveed   alance  Cha         Rcored  Recovered  Balance
DOUKKALA
1984      42.90     39.03       91       3.87       1.51     1.51       100       0.00     44.41     40.64        91       3.87
1985      39.03     39.03       100      0.00      2.69      2.69       100       0.00    41.72      41.72       100       0.00
19s8      49.58     47.50       96       2.08      4.21      4.21       100       0.00     53.79     51.71       9s        2.08
1987      81.53     77.63       95       4.00       6.87     6.87       100       0.00    88.40      84.40        95       4.00
1988      128.20    101.50      79      28.70      7.10      7.10       100       0.00    135.30    108.60        80      26.70
1989      99.48     90.84       91       8.64      6.39      6.39       100       0.00    105.87     97.23        92       8.64
1990      101.63    87.78        8s     13.85         -         -        -          -         -          -         -          -
1991      109.80    95.80       87      14.00         -         -        -          -         -          -         -          -
GHARB
1984      33.40     16.54       so      16.86      4.05      4.05       100       0.00    37.45      20.59        55      16.86
1985      31.96     18.60        58     13.36      3.38      3.88       100       0.00    36.84      22.48        63      13.36
1986      31.25     19.38       62      11.87      5.02      6.02       100       0.00    36.27      24.40        67      11.87
1987      80.47     28.81       48      31.66       6.85     4.19       e1        2.68    67.32      33.00        49      34.32
1988      80.84     55.27        6s     25.57      11.89     5.62       47        6.27    92.73      60.89        66      31.84
1989      61.28     37.82        82     23.46      12.53     7.66       e1        4.87     73.81     45.48        82      28.33
1990       51.63    39.08        76     12.55         -         -         -         -         -          -         -          -
1991      49.70     35.90       72      13.80         -         -        -          -         -          -         -          -
HAUUZ
1984       2.43      0.69       28       1.75      0.19      0.19       100       0.00     2.62       0.87        33       1.75
1985       2.66      0.s5       21       2.11      0.18      0.18       100       0.00     2.84       0.73        26       2.11
1986        1.78     1.15       es       0.63       5.19     0.91        18       4.28     6.97       2.06        30       4.91
1987       2.59      1.67       64       0.92      4.37      1.89       39        2.68     6.96       3.36        48       3.60
1988       3.03      2.21       73       0.82      3.39      1.61       47        1.78     6.42       3.82        60       2.60
1989       3.23      2.05       63       1.18      2.40      1.20       50        1.20     5.63       3.25        S8       2.38
1990       12.32     7.39       so       4.93         -         -        -          -         -          -         -         -
1991      27.70     19.30       70       8.40         -         -        -          -         -          -         -         -
LOUKKOS
1984      17.47     12.77       73       4.70      0.12      0.02        17       0.10    17.59      12.79        73       4.80
1985      24.19     16.33        66      7.86      0.85      0.60       71        0.25    25.04      16.93        es       8.11
1986      38.96     24.14        62     14.82      0.80      0.42       63        0.38    39.76      24.56        62      16.20
1987      56.95     31.42        55     25.53       1.33     0.71       53        0.62    58.28      32.13        55      26.15
1988      64.12     36.87        58     27.25       1.20     0.39       33        0.81    65.32      37.28        57      28.00
1989      74.90     36.34       49      38.56       1.39     0.45       32        0.94    76.29      36.79        48      39.50
1990      80.53     47.05       s8      33.48         -         -        -          -         -          -         -          -
1991      76.40     38.20       61      37.20         -         -        -          -         _          _         _          _
.___________________________________________________ __  (continued)



- 36 ,
Annex 2.2
Page 2 od2
WATER CHARSEIa                      LAND IErrEMENT LEVY                               TOTAL
%      Unpid                           q       Unpaid                          %       Unpaid
ORMVA    Charged Recovered  Recovered Ralo    Charged  Recovre   Recovwrd  lalac   Charged   Recovered  Recovered  Balance
MOULOUYA
1984      23.26     10.76       46     12.49       0.63     0.53       100      0.00     23.76      11.29       47      12.49
1985      23.96     12.91       54     11.05       3.33    02l         a        3.05    27,29      13.19       48      14.10
1986      24.16     13.42       66     10.74       3.50     0.60       20       2.60     27.66      14.32       52      13.34
1987      ;W.68     18.46       60     12.12       3.85     0.61       24        2.54    33.03      19.27       67      14.86
1968      48.12     23.15       50     22.97       3.03     0.49    . la         2.64    49.15      23.64       48      26.51
1989      48.65     27.67       66     21.98       3.04     0.62       27       222      62.69      28.49       64      24.20
1990      63.70     31.14       49     32.50         -         -        -          -         -         -         -
1991      71.20     36.40       St    34.80          -         -        -          -         -         -         -
SOUSS-MASSA
1984      20.84      6.78       28     15.05      11.02     0.36        3       10.66    31.86       6.14       19      25.72
1985      27.38     12.26       45     15.10      12.69     229         18      10.40    40.05      14.55       36      25.50
1988      32.15     11.93       37     20.22      13.21     3.60       27       9.61     45.30      15.83       34      29.83
1987      44.60     15.97       38     28.63      11.69     2.09        18      9.60     60.29      18.05       32      38.23
1988      65.70     16.53       30     39.17      11.30     1.61        13      9.66     67.06      18.04       27      49.02
1980      85.34     33.51       51     31.83      11.39     0.98        9       10.41    76.73      34.49       45      42.24
1900      58.82     38.36       e6     20.40         -         -        -          -        -          -         -         -
1991                36.61     ERR    -3e.61          -         -        -          -        -          -         -         -
TADLA
1984      66.04     27.96       42     38.09       3.73     1.48       39       2.27     69.77      29.41       42      40.38
1985      54.3S     29.98       55     24.37       3.46     1.80       62       1.66     57.81      31.78       65      26.03
1986      72.00     48.83       e8     23.37       2.57     1.14       44        1.43    74.67      49.77       67      24.80
1987      81.85     55.66       68     26.19       3.98     1.27       32       2.71     65.83     58.93        6e      28.90
1988      96.87     78.05       81     18.82       4.23     243        67        1.80    101.10     80.48       80      20.82
1989      90.22     82.79       92      7.43       4.03     2.18       64        1.86    94.26      84.97       90       9.28
1990      92.37     71.71       78     20.60         -         -        -          -        -          -         -         _
1991     132.38    123.92       94      8.46         -         -        -          -        -          -         -         -
TOTAL FOR THE 7 ORMVAS
1984     206.33    113.51       56     02.82      21.16     8.12       38       13.03    227.48    121.63       53     106.85
1985     203.61    129.66       64     73.85      27.08     11.72      43       16.36    230.69    141.38       61      80.21
1986     249.88    16615        es     83.73      34.50     10.20      47       18.30    284.38    182.36       64     102.03
1987     358.57    229.52       64    129.05      3S.44     17.63      46       20.81    397.01    247.16       62     149.86
1988     474.88    313.58       66    161.30      42.20     19.16      45      23.06    517.08     332.73       64     184.35
1989     444.10    311.02       70    133.08      41.17     19.68      48      21.49    485.27     330.70       68     154.57
1990     4! '.0    322.61       70    138.49         -         -        -          -         -         -         -         -
1991     621.30    386.13       74    135.17         -         -        -          -        -          -         -         -
source:   PAGI Report 5-0-aM                   a) cWud gl pumi  chape
DER letter of April 20.1990
PAGI Report 15-C0-80
m:villaret\tables\recovery.wk1



- 37 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATlON IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL SiTUATION OF THE ORMVAS (DH nillion)
1988     1989     1990  Average
1. INVESTMENT BUDGET
REVENUES
(a)   Government contribution      420.0    703.8    671.2    598.3
(b)   Carry over                   120.5      33.8    193.4    115.9
Other revenues                50.0      36.6    365.9    150.8
TOTAL                      590.5    774.2  1.230.5    865.1
EXPENDiTURES
(c)   LSI construction             134.9    179.6    278.5    197.7
(d)   Other Investments             86.1    140.0    139.6    121.9
SUB-TOTAL                   221.0    319.6    418. 1    319 0
(e)   LSII-1                        72.9    131.6    156.6    120.4
(i)   Maintenance                   50.1     59.9     89.6      66.5
(g)   Energie                       99.8    128.3    200.1    142.7
TOTAL                       443.8    639.4    864.4    649.2
BALANCE                         146.7    134.8    3661.   215.9
Unpaid services             (695.5)   (262.7)  (216.7)  (391.6)
(h)   Direct payment               312.5      44.9    427.3    261.6
2. CURRENT BUDGET
REVENUES
Carry over                   109.4    210.9    213.7    178.0
(I)   Water Charges                316.2    298.9    323.1    312.7
Land Betterment               16.6    16.6       16.6     16.6
Other revenues                32.1      52.1     41.3     41.8
0)   Government Contribution       140.3    138.0    174.9    151.1
TOTAL                       614.6    716.5    769.6    700.2
EXPENDITURES
Salaries                     306.2    347.4    375.0    342.9
Other recurrent costs         65.6      86.4    107.1     86.4
(k)    SUB-TOTAL                   371.8    433.8    482.1    429.2
(I)   Energy                        31.8     63.0     71.4     55.4
(m)   Maintenance                     0.0      7.0      4.9      4.0
TOTAL                       403.6    503.8    558.4    488.6
BALANCE                         211.0    212.7    211.2    211.6



- 38 -                                       Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 3
1988     1989     1990    Average
Unrecovered revenues          190.4    206.5    155.1    184.0
Unpaid expenditures          (33.7)   (87.7)   (53.4)   (58.3)
3. GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
(a)   From Investment Budget       420.0    703.8    671.2    598.3
(b)   From carry over               120.5     33.8    193.4    115.9
)   From Current Budget           140.3    138.0    174.9    151.1
TOTAL                       680.8    875.6  120395    865.3
4. DIRECT O&M COST FOR WATER DISTRIBUTION (Estimate)
(rounded)
EXPENDITURES
0.35'(k)   Salaries + Misc              130.1    151.8    168.7    150.2   150
(g+l)  Energy                        131.6    191.3    271.5    198.1    140 (x
(f.m)   Maintenance                    50.1     66.9     94.5      70.5    70
(n)    TOTAL                        311.8    410.0    534.7    418.9   360
REVENUE
(i)   Water Charges  TOTAL         316.2    298.9    323.1    312.7   310
BALANCE                           4.4   (111.1)  (211.6)   (106.1)   (50)
Revenue/Expenditures %         101       73        60       75     85
5. CONSOLIDATED EXPENDITURES (estimate)
(rounded)
(c)   Investment In LSI financed from annual Budget             197.7   200
(h)   Investment In LSI financed from advances on Budget        261.6   260
(d)   Other investments                                         121.9   120
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                                       581.2   580
(e)   LSI Rehabilitation (LSII-1)                               120.4   120
(n)   Operating costs for O&M of LSI systems                    418.9   360
0.65*(k)   Operating costs of Public Service activities             279.0   260
TOTAL                                                 1t3995   1320



- 39 -
Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 3
6. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL ORMVA BUDGET
(AVERAGE 1988-1990)
Exoenses                  Revenues
Annual       Off           Water
Budget       Budget        Charge
Allocation   Allocations    Income
INVESTMENT COSTS
Non-LSI Investments             120        120           -
New LSI Schemes                 460        200          260
LSI REHABILiTATION
(LSII-1)                        120        120           -
TOTAL                          700       440           260
RECURRENT COSTS
O&M                             360        50            -              310
Agricultural Development        260        260           -
TOTAL                          620       310           260            310
GRAND TOTAL                              750           260            310
Source: Bank review of DER budget documents.
(x): Expenditures on energy have been reduced as actual numbers Include repayment of arrears



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
iUNGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEUENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABiLITATION
DOUICKKLA    GHARE                 HAOUZ         LOUKKO  MOULOUYA OUARZAZATE S0USS MASS    TADLA               TAFILALET    TOTAL
A. SYSTBI RECONSTRUCTION                              Flood  Tesaout                                                      S.Amont
Fare-h    Sehi   Area   Amont  N-Fiss  lmnrls      -        Tdft          _         Ouahzllen  B.AmiflMoussa     _      10 sub-project
Irration networu (ha)                0.432   5.013    910    3,352   2,634    263              15,128                      2.623        12.727                 52.102
Surface drainage (ha)                9.432   6.t03    010                                                                                                      15.355
Substif.drainage (ha)                       3.953                                              10.157                                    7.727                 21,837
Feederrod s(km)                        78    105              100     36      21                  100                         33           77                    550
_Impac ar"                           9.432  S.013    910   3.352  2.634    283                  15.128                     2.623        12.727                 62.102
B. MN CANALS& STRUCTURES
Seme                               CP Boht                -              _       CP Tiffa       _                       B.Moussa       _      4 sUb-projects
Command Are (ha)             29.100         16.900                                      36.000                                    8.700                (18,700      O
C. FLOOD IRRIGATION
Schemes                 _                                                                      s y sms     3 er        .            7 atom   20 sub-projects
Command Area (ha)                                                                                      7.850        1.300                  11.600      20.750
O. SURFACEDRAINAGE
Schemes                 _              _                  _              _       Bouareg-                                              -       1 sub-proet
Command Area (ha)                                                                          720                                                            720
E. PUMPING EOUIPMENT                                                                                                                                         6 subprojcts
No.pumphig statons                     10              7                                8          12                         20            1                     58
Nootmorslpumpstoreplace                57             23                               10          11                         19            4                    133
Command Area (ha)            32.600         17.835                           14.055     20.89e                     42.100         1,000                128.186
F. CONTROL GATES                     Scheme           _        -                        -       CP Triffa      _           Massa        Scheme
G. FEEDER ROAD                                                                                                                                               5 ub-proects
Lenth (km)                                 155                              120        160                         75                                 510
m:%vlitaretUableslrehabphy.wkl
0



- 41 -
Annex 3.2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGAllON IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Equipment and Buildinas for ORMVAs' Strenothenina
DK    GH       HZ     LK     ML      OZ    SM       TD      TF   Total
A. MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
Crane w.tractor                    -      1       1      -       2       -      -       4      -       8
Excavator w.tract.                 -      -       -      2       4       -      -       -      -       6
Trailer                            -      -       -              -       -1
Wheel Loader                       -      -       1      -       -       -      _       _      _       1
Crawler Loader                     -      -       -       -      -       -1
3-ton; ack                         -      -       -      1       1       -      -       3      4       9
5-ton Track                        -      -       2      2       -       -      -       -      -       4
Crane w.truck                      -      1       -      -       1       -      -       -      -       2
Workshop w.truck                   -      -       -       1      -       -      -       -      -       1
Wheel Excavator                    -       1      1       -      1       1      -       2      -       6
Crane                              -      -       1      -       -       1      -       -      -       2
Motorgrader                        2      1       *       1      1       -      -       2      -       8
Compactor                          -      -       1      -       -       -      -       -      -       1
Dumper                             -      -       -      4       -       -      -       -      -       4
Mainten.traller                        -      -           -      -       -      -       -      1       1
Workshop trailer                   -      -       ..     -       -       -      3       -      -       3
Workshop Equipment                     -      -           -      2       1      1       -      -       4
Total                           2      4       8     11      12      3       6     11       5     62
B. VEHICLES
Sedan Car                         10     14      13     14      21      16     25     20       5    138
4WDCar                            10      9      11      9       6     21       -       6     10      82
Minibus                            -      -       -      -       -       1      -       -      -       1
Bus                                -      1       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       1
Pick-up                            -      -       -      -       3       -      -       -      -       3
Van                                -      -       -      -       3       -      -       -      -       3
Total                         20     24      24     23      33      38     25      26     15    228
Motorbikes                         -      -      86     60       -       -    150    120      40    456
C. BUILDINGS
125 m2 House                       -      -       3      -       -      -       -       -      -       3
100 m2 House                       -     10     20       -      24     12      15     12       -     93
75 m2 House                       12      -       -      -      38       -      -       -      -      50
Office Compound                    1      1       -      -       1      -       -       -      1       4
Bachelor Compound                  -      1       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       1
Miscellaneous                          -          -       -      -       -              -      1       1
Total                         13      12     23       0     63      12     15      12      2    152
D. COMPUTER SYSTEMS                -      -       1      -       1       1      1       -      1       5



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, STUDIES AND TRAINING
ORMVAS
OK      GH       HZ       LS      ML       OZ      SM       TD       TF    Total
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (man-month)
1. Engineering
Subsurface drainage                        -        -       -        -      20        -        -      20        -      40
Miscellaneous                              8        -       -        -       10       -        9       1        -       28
Detailed Design                           44       36       -        -       -        -        -       -        -      80
Work supervision                          72       48       -        -      50        -        -      48        -      218
subtotal    124       84       -        -      80        -        -      69        -      366
2. System Maintenance
Pumping Equipment                         10       10       -       10       ,o       -        -       -        -       40
Civil works                                5        5       5        5       5        5        5       5        5      45
subtotal     15       i5       5       15      15        5        5       5        5      85
3. System Operation
Water management                          15       15      15       15       15      15       15      15       15      135
Automated low gauging                     10       10      10       10       10       -       10      10       10       80 s
subtotal     25      25       25       25      25       15       25      25       25     215
4. Financial Management
Management Information System              -        -      12        -       12      12       12       -       12      60
subtotal      -        -      12        -       12      12       12       -       12      60
Total Technical Assistance             164      .24      42       40     132       32       42      99       42      726
B. TRAINING (man-week)
In Morocco m-w                         774    1,103    1.134    1,021    1,260    612    1,115      805     864    8,688
OutsideMoroccom-w                      108      435      173     122      193      94      131      253     132    1.641
Total Training                         882    1,538    1,307    1,143    1.453    706    1,246    1,058     996   10,329
DGRHA
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (man-month)                   B. STUDIES (man-month)               C. TRAINING (man-week)
Installation of an MIS                     5          Long-Term Rehabil. Plan        27      In Morocco              3,80o
Project Coordination                      25          Water Charges Restructuring    50      Outside Morocco           700
Operational and Financial Audits          50          Lg-Term Plan for LSI Managt.   30
Total Technical Assistance                80          Total Studies                 107        Total training        4.500
m:vi t laret\tables\techast3.wk1



-43                                            Annex 3.4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROMECT
IMPROVEMENT OF IRRIGATION TECHNIQUES
DK     GH       HZ       LX     ML       OZ      SM       TD      TF    Total
I. EQUIPMENT FOR ON-FARM
DEMONSTRATIONS
A. SURFACE IRRIGATION
Laser-guided land levelling
set, Including tractor (No.)      1       1       1        -       1       -        -       1               5
Land leveller                     3       4       3        -       3       -       -        3       2      18
Land plane                        2       5       3       -        5       1        -       6       3      25
Aluminium gated pipes (m)     2,000   2.000   1,000        -   2,000       -        -   2000        -   9.000
Plastic pipes (m)             2,000   2,000   1,000       -   2,000        -       -   2,000        -   9.000
Plastic film (m)              6.000   6,000  13.000        -   6,000  10,000        -   6,000  10,000  57,000
Lined farm ditch (m)          6.000   6,000  13,000        -   6.000  10.000        -   6.000  10,000  57.000
B. SPRINKLER IRRIGATION
Test bench (No.)                 55      14       4       26      24       -       54       -       -      177
Hydrant rehabilitation (No)   2.400     458       -   3,000      400       -   3,333        -       -   9.591
C. DRIP IRRIGATION
Irrigation system (ha)           10      20      20       7       16      10      40       10      10      143
D. LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
Main meteorological stations      2       2       1        1       2       1        -       1       1       11
Secondary meteorological st.      2       8       6       4        5      10        6       9      10      60
MIscellaneous                     1       1       1        1       1       1        1       1       1       9
E VEHICLES
Sedan cars                        3       3       3       2        3       2       3        3       2      24
11. ON-FARM INVESTMENT
A. SURFACE IRRIGATION (ha)
1. Land levelling             1,000   2,000   2,250       -   1,600      500       -   2,750    1,000   11,100
Conventional    250   1,500   1,500        -   1.000     500        -   2,000    1,000   7,750
Laser-guided    750     500      750       -     600       -        -     750        -   3,350
2. Farm ditch Improvement       800   1.900   1,400        -   1.600     500        -   2,000       -   8,200
Concrete lining  250      500     500       -     400      500       -      500       -   2,650
Plastic film  250     500     500        -     400       -        -     500        -   2,150
Plasticpipes   150      500     200       -     400        -       -      500       -   1,750
Gated pipes    150     400      200       -     400       -        -     500        -   1,650
B. SPRlINLER IRRIGATION (ha)
Portable equipment          2,500    1,000      -   2,500   1,000        -   2,500        -       -   9.500
C. DRIP IRRIGATION (ha)
Irrigation set                100     100     200      100     100      50     200      100      50   1.000
Total Area (ha)        3,600   3.100   2,450   2,600   2,700      550   2,700    2,850   1,050  21,600



- 44 -
Annex 3.5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
COMPONENT                           1993      1994      1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
*         0                  0        0        0        0
1.  INFRASTUCTURE REHABILITATION
-  System reconstruction                ******
- Main canal upgrading                  kV                                 _
-  Road rehabilitation                             __ ,,
-  Pump. equipment replacement
-  Drainage system improvement
2.  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
-  Equipment and buildings
-  TechnicaL assistance                 ******
-  Training
3.  WATER USE EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
-  On-farm demonstrations
-  Hydrant Rehabilitation                                   _
-  On-farm investments                                             _ _,        _,_ ,
M:lVALLAEllECTAWNEX8.5



- 45 -
Annex 3.6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LEVEL OF PROJECT PREPARATION
Under Detailed Design           Completed
Total Base Cost          ____
ORMVA          of Infrastructure     Total Value     % of        Total Value      % of
Rehabilitation                      Base                         Base
MDH                 MDH           Cost          MDH            Cost
Doukkala              384.9            376.7            98          265.2           69
Gharb               440.5             433.9            99         433.9            99
Haouz                77.3              77.3           100          44.7            58
Loukkos               88.4              88.4          100           88.4           100
Moulouya              180.0            128.5            71          155.2            86
Ouarzazate              82.4              0.0             0            0.0            0
Souss-Massa              76.2             65.4            86           47.6           62
Tadla               191.1             178.4           93          178.4            93
Tafilalet             55.8              55.8          100            0.0             0
Total             1.576.6          1.404.4          89.1        1.213.4         77.0
Source: DER



- 46 -
Annex 4.1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                       Page 1 o0 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEBENT PROJECT
Cash Flow of the ORMVAs (DH million)
Actual                                                  Average
1991    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999  1994-99
DOUKKALA                         1
Income from Water Charges
billed   109.8   113.1   116.9   121.4   126.0   131.0   131.0    123.2
recovered    95.8   101.8   106.4   110.5   115.9   120.5   121.8    112.8
%      87      90       91     91       92      92      93       92
O&M expenditures             72.7    76.3    80.0    83.6    87.2    87.2    87.2      83.6
Contributlon to
Rehabilitation               23.1   25.49  26.379  26.874   28.72   33.32   34.63      29.2
GHARB
Income from Water Charges
billed    49.7    63.5    84.3    92.9   101.5   103.9   103.9    91.7
recovered    35.9    51.4    71.7    83.6    91.4    94.5    95.6     81.4
%      72      81       85      90      90      91      92       88
O&M expenditures             53.3    56.0    58.6    61.3    64.0    64.0    64.0      61.3
Contribution to
Rehabilitation              -17.4  -4.565  13.055   22.31   27.35    30.5    31.6      20.0
HAOUZ
Income from Water Charges
billed    26.6    25.6    30.0    30.4    31.4    32.9    32.9    30.5
recovered    18.6    21.8    25.8    26.4    27.6    29.3    29.6     26.8
%fB    70      85       86      87      88      89      90       88
O&M expenditures             30.1    31.6    33.1    34.6   36.1    36.1    36.1       34.6
Contribution to
Rehabiiltation              -11.5   -9.84    -7.3  -8.152  -8.468  -6.819   -6.49      -7.8
LOUa<OS
Income from Water Charges
billed    75.4    72.9    73.4    74.9    78.8    83.8    83.8    77.9
recovered    38.2    53.9    55.1    59.9    64.6    69.6    71.2     62.4
56     51       74      75      80      82      83      85       80
O&M expenditures             56.3    59.1    61.9    64.7    67.6    67.6    67.6      64.8
Contribution to
Rehabilitation              -18.1  -5.154   -6.85   .4.78  -2.984      2.0     3.6    -2.4
MOULOUYA
Income from Water Charges
billed    73.3    70.2    75.1    77.9    80.6    77.8    77.8    76.6
recovered    39.0   49.1    60.1    63.9    67.7    66.9    70.0      63.0
96     53      70       80      82      84      86      90       82
O&M expenditures             46.8    49.1    51.5    53.8    56.2    56.2    56.2      53.8
Contribution to
Rehabilitation                -'.8    0.04    8.58  10.078  11.504  10.708   13.82      9.1
(Continued)



- 47 -
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 2
Actual                                                 Average
1991    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999 1994-99
SOUSS-MASSA
Income from Water Charges
billed    55.1    57.9    55.8    55.9    57.2    58.9    58.9    57.4
recovered    36.6    45.2    44.6    45.8    48.0    50.1    50.1    47.3
∞h     66      78      80      82      84       85      85       82
O&M expenditures             47.5    49.9    52.3    54.6    57.0    57.0    57.0     54.6
Contribution to
Rehabilitation              -10.9  -4.738   -7.66  -8.762  -8.952  -6.935  -6.935     -7.3
TADLA
Income from Water Charges
billod   128.0   122.7   120.9   123.0   128.0   133.9   133.9    127.1
recovered   105.2   110.4   111.'   114.4   120.3   127.2   127.2    118.5
∞h     82      90      92      93      94       95     95        93
O&M expenditures             25.2    27.7    30.2    31.5    32.8    34.0    35.3     31.9
Contribution to
Rehabilitation                 80   82.73  81.028   82.89    87.5  93.205  91.905     86.5
OUARZAZATE-TAFILALET
O&M expenditures             31.4    33.0    34.5   36.1    37.7    37.7    37.7    36.1
Contribution to
Rehabilitation              -31.4   -33.0  -34.5  -36.1   -37.7  -37.7  -37.7   -36.1
TOTAL
billed   517.9   525.9   556.4   576.4   603.5   622.2   622.2    584.4
recovered   369.3   433.7   474.8   504.6   535.6   558.1   565.5    512.0
%      71      82      85      88      89      90      91       88
O&M expenditures            363.3   382.7   402.2   420.3   438.5   439.7   441.0    420.7
Contribution to
Rehaoilitatlon                 6    43.2    75.3    93.6   112.7   142.3   141.1    101.4
Source: DER projections for water charges
Bank estimate for O&M



- 48 -AAnnex 4.2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARME-SCALE IRRIGA71ON IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED RECOVERY OF WATER CHARGES
Oncludina arrears)
DH Million
Actual                                                          Average
1991      1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999  1994-99
Doukkala-
billed    109.8      113.1    116.9    121.4    126.0    131.0    131.0      123.2
recovered      95.8     101.8    106.4    110.5    115.9    120.5    121.8       112.8
∞h        87        90        91       91       92       92       93         92
Gharb
billed     49.7      63.5      84.3     92.9    101.5    103.9    103.9       91.7
recovered      35.9      51.4     71.7      83.6     91.4     94.5     95.6       81.4
%i        72        81        85       90       90       91       92         89
Hlaouz
billed     26.6      25.6      30.0     30.4     31.4     32.9      32.9      30.5
recovered      18.6      21.8     25.8      26.4     27.6     29.3     29.6       26.8
%         70        85        86       87       88       89        90        88
Loukkos
billed     75.4       72.9     73.4     74.9     78.8     83.8      83.8      77.9
recovered      38.2      53.9     55.1      59.9     64.6     69.6     71.2       62.4
%h        51        74        75       80       82       83        85        80
Moulouva
billed     73.3      70.2      75.1     77.9     80.6     77.8      77.8      76.6
recovered      39.0      49.1     60.1      63.9     67.7     66.9     70.0       63.0
%,6       53        70        80       82       84       86        90        82
Souss-Massa
billed     55.1      57.9      55.8     55.9     57.2     58.9      58.9      57.4
recovered      36.6      45.2     44.6      45.8     48.0     50.7     53.0       47.9
%h        66        78        80       82       84       86        90        83
Tadla
billed    128.0      122.7    120.9    123.0    128.0    133.9    133.9      127.1
recovered     105.5     110.4    111.2    114.4    120.3    127.2    127.2       118.5
_82                S9        92       93       94       95        95        93
Total
billed    517.9      525.9    556.4    576.4    603.5    622.2    622.2      584.4
recovered     369.6     433.7    474.8    504.6    535.6    558.7    568.5       512.6
___ _     71         82       85       88       89       90        91  |     88
From DER projections



- 49 -
Annex 4.3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ORMVAs Contribution to Proiect Financino (DH Million)
DOUKiKAl-A    TADLA       Total
a. Income
1991 Proceeds from:
- Water charges                    96          124
- Land Betterment Levy              6            6
expected increase (1)                11           22
total Income                        113          152      265
b. Operating costs
actual O0M cost ( )                  73           25
expected Increase (1)                14           15
total opewating costs                87           40      127
c. Available for rehabilitation
(a) - (b)                          26          112      138
d. Available over 6 years
(c)x6                             156          672      828
e. Contribution to LSII-2               78          239      317
US$ equivalent     8.7         26.6     35.3
f. total cost of the infrastructure
rehabilitation component included
in LSII-2                            511         255       766
g. percentage of total rehabilitation
costs financed by the ORMVA
(e)/(g)∞%                         15%          94%      41%
(1) Bank estimate



- 50 -
Annex 4.4
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Performance Indicators for ORMVA Management
1.    Overall Management
Amount of water charges billed to farmers                *     **    o
including current year and arrears
Amount of water charges recovered from
farmers, including current year and arrears              *     **    o
Aggregate cost of each group of operational
activities: system O&M, construction of
new systems, and agricultural services                   *     na    o
Amount of overhead per group of operational
activities                                               *     na    0
Total cost of system O&M, including
overhead                                                 *     **    0
Portion of ORMVA income from water charges
allocated to the financing of LSII-2 and
other rehabilitation project                             *     **    0
Amount of energy billed by, and paid to, ONE             *     **    0
2.    Water distribution efficiency
Aggregate O&M cost per hectare equipped                  *     **
Volume of water delivered to farm in % of
estimated crop requirements                              *     **
Efficiency of distribution network                       *     **
Energy consumption per cubic meter of water                    **
3.    System Construction / Rehabilitation



- 51 -
Annex 4.4
Page 2 of 2
4.    Agricultural Services
Cost per irrigated hectare                               *     **
Number of extension staff per 1000 ha                    *     **
Cropping intensity                                       *     **
Yield of the main crops                                  *     **
Veterinary protection                                    *     **
* indicators for ORMVAs equipped with MIS
** indicators for ORMVAs temporarily not equipped with MIS
o indicators to be directly monitored by the Bank



- 52 -
nex S.1I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVMENT PROJECT
TOTAL SUMMARY ACCOUNTS
1000 DH                           1000 uSS                      X Total
------------------------------    ---------------------------   X Foreign           Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
---- --- --- ---- ------ ---  ........ ................  .....  .... ........ .............. .. .
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. GENIE CIVIL
1. Canaux Principaux              224351    149567    373919         24928    16619    41547             40         15
2. Pistes rurales                  91950      61300    153249        10217      6811    17028            40          6
3. Degat de Crue                   60000      40000    100000         6667      4444    11111            40          4
4. Reseau dlirrigation            423674    282450    706124         47075    31383    78458             40         28
5. Drainage                        33103      22068     55171         3678      2452     6130            40          2
6. Batiments                       61504      41003    102507         6834      4556    11390            40          4
............... ...............    ................. ........ ..   ............ . ..... ....  ...
Sub-Total                            894582    596388   1490970         99398    66265   165663             40         59
S. EWUIPEMENT
1. Equip. station pomapge          85947    159616    245563          9550    17735    27285             65         10
2. Equip Regulation                26952      50053     77005         2995      5561     8556            65          3
3. Equip d'atelier                  6323      11742      18065         703      1305     2007            65          1
4. Equip. reseaux irrigation        3490       6482      9972          388       720     1108            65          0
5. Equip. irrig. parcelte          35556      53334     88890         3951      5926     9877            60          4
6. Engins lourds                   20356      37804     58160         2262      4200     6462            65          2
7. Vehfcules                       24223      19819     44042         2691      2202     4894            45          2
8. Equip. bureau                    5544      10296      15840         616      1144     1760            65          1
Sub-Totat                            208391    349146    557537         23155    38794    61949             63         22
C. A.T.,FORMATION & ETUDES
1. Assistance Technique            24570      57330     81900         2730     6370      9100            70          3
2. Formation                        9368      14052     23420         1041      1561     2602            60          1
3. Etudes                          12028      12027     24055         1336      1336     2673            50          1
........... ..............................  ...... .............  .  ............  .......................... ..............
Sub-Total                             45965      83409    129375         5107      9268    14375            64          5
D. INVESTISSEMENT PRIVE
1. Genie Civil - Irrig Gray.       19350      12900     32250         2150      1433     3583            40          1
2. Equip - Irrig. Grav.            34500      51750     86250         3833      5750     9583            60          3
3. Equip - Irrig. Aspers.          21000      31500     52500         2333      3500     5833            60          2
4. Equip - Irrig. Localise         12000      18000     30000         1333      2000     3333            60          1
...... _;; ...................... ....................  ....... ............................______ ._____. ................. __.
Sub-Total                             86850    114150    201000          9650    12683    22333             57          8
..............................      ........................... ..................... ..................... .......................  . ..........
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              1235789   1143094   2378883        137310   127010   264320             48         95
..............................      ........................... ..................... ............... ............................. ..........
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. 04 Genie civil                     2008       1339       3347         223       149       372           40          0
B. O&M Equipement                     52285      78427    130711         5809      8714    14523            60          5
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 54293      79766    134059         6033      8863    14895            60          5
..............................      ........................... ..................... ........... ..................... ..................
Total BASELINE COSTS                1290082   1222860   2512941        143342   135873   279216             49        100
PhysicaL Contingencies            166010    139958    305968         18446    15551    33996             46         12
Price Contingencies               280863    205875    486739         31207    22875    54082             42         19
Total PROJECTS COSTS                1736955   1568693   3305648        192995   174299   367294             47        132
3/2/1993 12:12



- 53 -
AnnLex -5. 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BASELINE COSTS BY ORMVA
1OO0 DM                             1000 USS                        I Totat
..............................    ...........................- X  foreign                ease
LocaL   Foreign       Totat         Locat  Foreign    Totat         Exchange      Costa
A .OCUJKKALA
I  AmeLior Effic Parcel               13247       16671      29918          1472      1852      3324             56          t
2. Abelior GeCstion Cffiee             17493      26666      44158          1944      2963      4906             60           2
3  Rehab Infrastructure              215053      169823    384876          23895    IBB69    42764               44          15
4  Investiasement Prive                12002      15878      27880          1334      1764      3098             57           1
..............................        ........................... ............ ............................................... ..........
Sub-Totat                                 257795    229037    486832           28644    25449    54092               47          19
S . GeAR8
1. AmseLlor Effic ParceL              11345       12538      23883          1261      1393      2654             52          1
2. Ametlor Gestion Office              19207      27307      46514          2134      3034      5168             59          2
3. Rehab Infrastructure              243373    197131    440504            27041    21903    48945               45          18
4. Investissament Prive                15700      20800      36500          1744      2311      4056             57           I
s ~~~~~~~~~~..............................                           ........................... ............. ............................................... ..........
Sub-Totat                                 289626    257775    547401           32181    28642    60822               47          22
C . HAWUZ
1. Amoelior Effic Parcet               9105       9658       18763          10'2      1073      2085             51          1
2. AmeLlor Gestion Office             20347       29502      49849          2261      3278      5539             59          2
3. Rehab Infrastructure               46364       30910      77274          5152      3434      8586             40          3
4. Investissenent Prive                11786      14304      26090          1310      1589      2899             55           I
..............................        ........................... ............ ..... ...... ......................... .. .............
Sub-TotaL                                  87602      84374    171977           9734      9375      19109            49           7
0 . LOUKXOS
1. AmeLior Effic Parcet               11629       15963      27592          1292      1774      3066             58          I
2. Amellor Gestion Office             13101       20315      33416          1456      2257      3713             61           1
3. Rehab Infrastructure               37586       50783      88369          4176      5643      9819             57          4
4. Investisseamnt Prive                6200        9300      15500           689      1033      1722             60           1
Sub-otaL                                   68516      96361    164877           7613    10707    18320               sa           7
E . MO.JLWYA
1. Ametlor Effic Parcet                9700       11883      21583          1078      1320      2398             55          1
2. Ameltor Cestion Office             27847       36516      64363          3094      4057      7151             57          3
3. Rehab Infrastructure               999.1       80044    179985          11105      8894    19998              44          7
4. Investissement Prive               14272       18908      33180          1586      2101      3687             57           1
..............................        ....................................... ........................ .............._
Sub-Totat                                 15t'60    147351    299111           16862    16372    33235               49          12
F . OURZAZATE
1. Ametlor Effic Parcel                e327       5881       12208           703       653      1356             48          0
2. Ametlor CGstfon Office            1t 477      21221       36698          1720      2358      4078             58          1
3. Rehab Infrastructure               49433      32956       82389          5493      3662      9154             40          3
4. tnvestiaseant Prive                 3000        4000       7000           333       44:       778             57          0
............................ .... ......................  .....................................  ....................
SubToraL                                   74238      64057    138295           8249      7117    15366              46           6
G . SOUSS-M4ASSA
1. Ameolor Effic Parcet               10823      13339       24162          1203      1482      2685             55          1
2. Atetior Gestlon Office             18403      27054       45457          2C45      3006      5051             60          2
3. Rehab Infras ructure               34812      41405       76217          3868      4601      8469             54          3
4. Investissement Prive                7400       11100      18500           822      1233      2056             60           1
..............................        ........................... ............ ........................ ..................................
Sub-Total                                  71439      92898    164337           7938    10322    18250               57           7
H . TAOLA
1. Ametior Effic Parcel                9106        9432      18538          1012      1048      2060             51           1
2. Ametior Cestion Office              19282      28545      47828          2142      3172      5314             60           2
3. Rehab Infrastructure               112300      78850    191151          12475      8761    21239              41           8
4. Investissement Prive                14690      18160      32850          1632      2018      3650             55           1
..............................        ........................... ............ ..................................................................
Sub-Total                                 155379    134988    290366           17264    14999    32263                46         12
I . TAFILALET
1. AmeLior Effic Parcel                7160        6953      14113           796       m        1568             49           1
2. AmeLfor Gestion Office             11470       16983      28454          1274      1887      3162             60           1
3. Reheb infrestructure               33479       22319      55798          3720      2480      6200             40           2
4. Investissemant Prive                 1800       17CO       3500           200       189       389             49           0
..............................        ........................... ............ ............................................... ..........
Sub-Totat                                  53909      47956    101865           5990      5328    11318              47           4
J . Directifn Centrate
1. Oir Equipment Rurale               19312       27467      46780          2146      3052      5198             59          2
2. Dir Agricote B Recherche              340        460        8oo            38        51        89             57           0
3. Dir Planificat. Aff. Ecan             165        135        300            18        1S        33             45           0
4. Fono Commun                        60000       40000    100000           6667      444      11111             40          4
.................. ......................... .... ................  .................    .........I.................   ....................
Sub-Total                                  79817      68062    14788O           8869      7562    16431               46          6
Total BASELtINE COSTS                    1290082   1222860   2512941          143342   135873   279216               49         100
Physicat Contingencies                 166010    139958    305968           18446    15551    33996               46          12
Price Contingencies                   280863    205875    486739            31207    22875    54082               42          19
................. ........................... .....................................   ....................
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                     1736955   1568693   3305648          192995   174299   367294                47        132
.....oane... s. u...         : -. ..s....naua ...a.ssa S. aS.........-
3...................................................................................................................
3/2/19^93   12:25



- 54 -
Annex 5,3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SgMMARY ACCOUNTS PER YEAR
Including Contingencies
(1000 US$)
1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1990     TotaL
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
...... .......... .....
A. GENIE CIVIL
1. Canaux Principaux                2632      10587      13868     14508      9164       6372     57131
2. Pistes ruraLes                   3139       6586       6867      5903          0         0     22496
3. Degat de Crue                        0      2851       2973      3110       3252      3397      15584
4. Reseau d'irrigation               5115     20503      26412     27321      16763     11643    107756
5. Drainage                          378       1573       2050      2145       1346       937      8429
6. Batiments                        6344       6320       1040       584        116        76      14481
Sub-Total                              17608     48421      53210     53571      30641     22426    225877
B. EQUIPEMENT
1. Equip. station pompage            946       5480      8770       7959      7595       4428     35177
2. Equip Regulation                 4044       3013       1722       647       619        390      10435
3. Equip d'atelier                   925       1049        440         0          0         0       2414
4. Equip. reseaux irrigation          273       551        529         0          0         0       1354
5. Equip. frrig. parcelle           3416       4285       2644      1259       307        191      12103
6. Engins lourds                     5325      2284         42         0          0         0       7651
7. Vehicules                        3065       2092        693        34         10         0      5894
8. Equip. bureau                     2061         0          0         0          0         0       2061
Sub-Total                              20056     18753      14840      9899       8531      5009      77088
C. A.T.,FORMATION & ETUDES
1. Assistance Technique             4589       3960        859       670       435         30     10543
2. Formation                         1647       958        381         0          0         0       2986
3. Etudes                            1921      1096         38         0          0         0      3055
Sub-Total                               8156      6014       1278       670        435        30      16583
D. INVESTISSEMENT PRIVE
1. Genie CiviL - Irrig Grav.            0         0          0      1580       1651      1776      5007
2. Equip - Irrig. Grav.                 0         0          0      4125      4275       4565      12965
3. Equip - Irrig. Aspers.               0         0          0      2511       2602      2779       7892
4. Equip - irrig. Localise              0         0          0      1435       1487      1588      4510
Sub-Total                                  0         0          0      9650      10016     10708      30374
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 45820     73188      69328     73789      49623     38173    349922
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. O&M Genie civil                        32         70        81         86        90        90        450
B. O&  Equipeoient                     2919      2407       2743       2862      2970      3022      16923
.................. :-- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   2951      2477       2824      2948       3060      3112      17373
Total PROJECT COSTS                    48771     75665      72152     76737      52683     41285    367294
............ ............ ........=... ............ ..........=............. ............ .......... .



- 55 -
Annex 5.4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Cost by ComDonent
TOTAL COST         % of Total
COMPONENTS                       (mdh)    US$m       Project Cost
i. Central Directorate                147.9 /1  16.4          5.9
2. On-farm Efficiency                 198.3     22.0          7.9
3. Institution Strengthening          396.7     44.1         15.7
4. Private Investment                 201.0     ?.2.3         8.0
s. Infrastructure Rehabilitallon     1,576.6    175.2        62.6
of which
a) Integrated Rehabilitation       933.0    103.7         37.0
b) Partial Rehabilitation          204.5     22.7          8.1
c) Flood Irrigation Scheme         126.9     14.1          5.0
d) Pump Station Renovation         231.7     25.7          9.2
e) Miscellaneous                    80.5      8.9          3.2
Total Base Cost                      2.520.5    280.1       100.0
Physical Contingency               214.4     23.8          8.5
Price Contingency                  511.1     56.8         20.3
Total Prolect Cost                   3.246.0    360.7       128.8
/1 Includes emergency fund of 100 mdh.



- 56 -
Annex 5.5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement /_
Cumulative
IBRD           Semester         By end of       ,                    % of
Fiscal Year         Ending         Semester         Cumulative       Disbursement
1994            Dec. 93           0                 0                   0
June 94         11                11                  5%
1995            Dec. 94          11                22                 10%
June 95         15                37                 17%
1996            Dec. 95          15                52                 24%
.Tune 96        15                67                 31%
1997            Dec. 96          17                84                 39%
June 97         17               101                 47%
1998            Dec. 97          19               120                 56%
June 98         19               139                 65%
1999            Dec. 98          20               159                 74%
June 99         20               179                 83%
2000             Dec. 99         15               194                 90%
June 00         11               205                 95%
2001             Dec. 00         10               215                100%
/a   Expected Effectiveness Date   :January 1994
Expected Completion Date        : December 1999
Expected Closing Date           : December 2000



- 57 -                  Annex 5.6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.                                         Expected Skill    Staff Input
Dates                   Activity                kequirements             (SW)
FY94          Four Supervision Missions
- Review of bidding documents       - Procurement           32.0
and procurement plans;            - EngineeriLug
- Review of design                  - Accounting
- Review of accounting plans        - Drainage
- Working program                   - Maintenance
- Technical assistance              - Training
- Procurement decisions
- Accounting, disbursement
- Training
FY95        Three Supervision Missions
- Working program                   - Engineering           24.0
- Technical assistance              - Maintenance
- Procurement decisions             - Accounting
- Accounting, disbursement          - Training
- Training
FY96        Two Supervision Missions            - Engineering            14.0
- Physical rehabilitation           X Institution
- Studies                           - Water pricing
- Training                          - Training
FY96        Mid-Term Review                     - Engineering            24.0
03/96       - Progress on implementation        - Accounting
- Institution
FY97        Two Supervision Missions            - Engineering            14.0
- Physical rehabilitation           - Institution
- Studies                           - Water pricing
- Training                          - Training
FY98        Two Supervision Missions            - Engineering            12.0
- Physical Rehabilitation           - Institution
- Studies                           - Water Pricing
- Training                          - Training
FY99        Supervision Mission                 - Engineering            12.0
and Preparation of PCR              - Institution
- Water pricing



- 58 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (LSII-2)
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.          The purpose of this note is to explain the underlying assumptions
and the methodology used in the derivation of economic prices to value
investment and operation and maintenance costs of the project and farm inputs
and output prices and the results of the economic analysis of the LSII-2
project.
General
2.          In Morocco, financial prices are close or close enough, to
economic prices. This is true for the exchange rate, interest rate and
tradable commodities in general reflecting minimal overall distortion in the
economy. Based on the proportion of imports and exports in total trade and a
weighted average of import taxes and export taxes, the Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) for Morocco was estimated at 0.90. With the macro-economic
adjustment program and trade liberalization reform currently underway, the
long-term average nominal protection is expected to decrease. It is assumed,
however, that some degree of distortion vis-a-vis market prices in the economy
would likely continue, and hence a SCF of 0.90 would be used to value non-
tradables inputs and outputs.
Proiect Costs
3.          Investment costs associated with rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure cover main canals, drainage systems, distribution networks and
rural roads, and procurement of machinery and equipment for renovation of
pumping stations.
4.          Operation and maintenance costs include incremental O&M costs
directly associated with the rehabilitation of irrigation systems. They were
calculated based on the actual and anticipated expenditure of the ORMVAs in
carrying out project activities. O&M costs would be for pumping irrigation
water, maintenance of machinery, equipment and rural roads, and transportation
of inputs and outputs. For main canals and rural roads, O&M costs are
estimated at 2X of investment cost for the first three years following
completion of rehabilitation works, and 51 thereafter. For pumping stations
and distribution networks, O&M costs are estimated at 5X of investment costs
for the first three years, and 101 thereafter.
5.          Water charges represent 15-250' of total production costs in
irrigated perimeters, with electricity as a major cost item in pumping water
for irrigation. For some products (eg. sugarcane in Loukkos), electricity
charges account for as much as 251 of production costs. On average,



- 59-                         Annex 6
Page 2 of 8
electricity charges account for as much as 25X of the production costs and for
two-thirds of the total operating cost, with overhead and labor costs
accounting for the balance.
6.          The large scale irrigation sub-sector is mostly supplied with
medium voltage electricity. Estimates by the Bank indicate that tariff rates
for medium voltage electricity (i.e. electricity used by the ORMVAs in large
scale irrigation schemes) is priced above the long-run marginal cost (LRMC).
According to a recent study by the Moroccan Association of Citrus Fruit
Producers, the high cost of electricity is largely due to the high connection
charges and to a lesser extent to the costs of equipment.
7.          Most farmers in the LSI schemes utilize medium voltage electric
power and a small number use lower voltage to irrigate their farms. The
domestic price for medium voltage electricity is 0.79 Dh/Kwh compared to the
economic price of 0.67 Dh/Kwh. The tariff for low voltage electricity is
0.69 Dh/Kwh, slightly below its economic cost estimated at 0.71 DH/KWH. The
weighted average tariff rate estimated at 0.78 Dh/Kwh represents about 90X of
the long-term marginal cost of supply.
8.          Labor.  Despite minimum wage regulations, (currently SMAG is set
at 27 Dh/day), wages are largely determined by market forces with seasonal and
regional variations. During the planting and harvesting period, farm wages
are about 50 Dh/day compared to Dh 30/day during the off-season where there is
high unemployment among unskilled workers. With high populatioim growth rates
estimated at 2.5X per annum and almost half of the population less than 15
years of age, there will be major difficulties in finding jobs for future
entrants to the labor market particularly for unskilled ones. The economic
cost for unskilled labor is valued at 25 Dh/day equivalent to 85X of its
average wage rate estimated at 30 dh/day. This rate is assumed to reflect the
marginal productivity of labor in its alternative use without the project.
9.          For skilled labor, which appears to be fully employed, the market
wage rate is used as the economic cost. Since the project is not so large as
to greatly alter the demand for unskilled labor relative to its supply, the
wage rate for skilled and unskilled labor in rural areas is not expected to
change as the result of the proposed project.
10.         Project investment and operating costs have been converted to
economic costs by removing transfer payments, i.e. taxes and subsidies and
border priced using the SCF. All costs and benefits are in constant 1990
Moroccan Dirhams and expressed in millions.
Project Benefits
11.         The directly quantifiable benefits of the project would be the
incremental crop and livestock production generated as rehabilitation of main
canals, drainage systems, pumping stations and distribution networks increases
and ensures reliability of water supply, savings in operating and maintenance
expenditures resulting from replacement of pumping equipment and improved pump



.60.                          Annex 6
Page 3 of 8
maintenance, savings in transport costs arising from improvements of rural
roads. Other indirect benefits would also arise from (a) higher revenues for
the ORMVAs through increased water charges reducing government subsidies and
(b) water savings from more efficient distribution and on-farm water use
induced by higher water tariffs and the pilot program introduced under the
project. In addition, the project would create employment resulting from
public works and increased in farm activities. Finally, by raising incomes of
small and medium farms, the project would reduce poverty in the project area.
12.         Following completion of the rehabilitation of the main canals and
distribution networks, increased water availability on a more regular basis
would result in increases in crop and livestock production through higher
cropping intensity, and improved yields and expansion of high value crops.
Largely because of poor maintenance, water availability in the main canals
without the project investment is expected to decrease at a rate of about 1
million m3 per year. To estimate project benefits resulting from increased
water availability due to the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure, the
additional water which would be made available has been converted into
incremental land area and the net value of agricultural production has been
derived. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out to check the viability of
proposed investments at a lower level of water savings (0.5 million m3 per
year instead of 1 million m3).
13.         Estimates of water use in irrigated farms ranges from 6600 m3/ha
in Doukkala and Moulouya to 8000 m3/ha in Gharb. The significant amount of
incremental water made available due to the rehabilitation works under the
project would result in an expansion of irrigated areas estimated at 3560 ha
in Doukkala, 6370 ha in Gharb and 5000 ha in Moulouya. The economic value of
the agricultural production from the expansion has been estimated at about
6500-8000 Dh/ha.
Economic Prices
14.         In the context of its structural adjustment program, the
government has made major progress in freeing producer markets, opening trade
regime, removing price controls and reducing import subsidies. These reforms
have resulted in raising producer prices of most cereals and other traded
commodities. Since 1990, the producer prices of barley, corn and hard wheat
are free, and the price of soft wheat has been linked to a moving average of
international prices. The price of sugar and cotton, which presently are set
by the government, are expected to be completely liberalized. Fertilizer
subsidies have been phased out and pesticide subsidies eliminated; and all
farm inputs except certain seeds are now available to farmers at market-
determined competitive prices.
15.         Traded commodities are valued at import or export parity prices
based on World Bank commodity price forecasts. Inputs and outputs for which
Morocco is a net importer are assumed to be imported at the margin and the
import parity (CIF) prices are used, and export parity (FOB) prices are used
for exports appropriately adjusted for port and handling charges and inland



- 61-                         Annex 6
Page 4 of 8
transport to the farmgate. For non-tradable goods, the domestic financial
prices are used as economic price. Economic prices of project inputs and
outputs and their derivation are prodided in Tables 1-13 in the Working Paper
II.3.
16.         Morocco is a net importer of cereals products.  The economic price
has been estimated by computing the import parity price (CIF Casablanca)
adjusted for port charges, handling and transport costs to the farm-gate.
Hard wheat sells at a premium over the soft wheat price and to reflect local
preferences for hard wheat, a 10% margin has been added to the CIF price of
imported soft wheat.
17.         Domestic production of sugar beet and sugarcane would satisfy only
part of the total demand and the balance would be imported. The import parity
prices of these products (CIF Casablanca) with appropriate adjustment for
handling and transport cost to the processing mills are used to measure their
economic values.
18.         Morocco exports cotton and imports cotton seed oil and oil cakes.
The economic price of cotton is calculated from the import parity prices for
cotton oil and oil cakes and the export parity price for staple adjusted for
transport, handling and processing costs. The Moroccan cotton is a long fiber
type priced about 252 higher than the Meddling cotton and the Bank's commodity
price forecast has been adjusted to reflect quality difference. Citrus fruit,
mainly oranges, is exported principally to EEC member countries. The export
parity price is calculated to derive its economic value.
19.         Vegetables are produced for local consumption and are essentially
sold in the urban centers located near the growing areas or transported to the
main population centers in the country. Because of large annual price
fluctuations in the domestic market, prices for vegetables are based on an
average wholesale market price, suitably adjusted to the farmgate. Vegetables
and berseem and maize for animal fodder produced under the project are
considered non-traded products and valued at their market price which is
assumed to reflect their economic value.
20.         The economic price of milk has been derived by calculating the
import parity price of milk from imported powdered milk. A premium of 10% has
been added to the price of reconstituted milk to reflect local preferences for
the fresh product.
21.         The incremental meat production under the project would substitute
for imports and is therefore valued at its import parity (CIF) price a Justed
for handling, storage and transport costs to the major consumption areas. The
CIF price for beef is derived from the World Bank commodity price forecast,
which is based on boneless beef imported in the US; to compensate for the
conversion of boneless meat to bcne-in meal, an adjustment factor of 20X was
applied. It was assumed that 1,000 kg of live-weight beef would yield 400 kg
of boneless meat or the equivalent of 50 kg of bone-in beef.



- 62-                         Annex 6
Page 5 of 8
22.         The country exports phosphate fertilizer and an export parity
price was calculated to derive its economic cost. For nitrogen and potash
fertilizers which are imported, import parity prices were computed for urea
(46% N) and potassium chloride (CLK). Farm chemicals are imported by several
private firms. There are no import duties on pesticides, fungicides or
herbicides, and therefore, the financial prices are considered as their
economic prices.                                  I
23.         The country imports farm tractors either already assembled or as
kits for assembly in local firms. There are no import duties on farm tractors
nor on irrigation equipment. Most farm equipment receives a direct subsidy
from Government which is administered in the irrigation perimeters by the
ORMVAs. These subsidies partially off-set the value added tax of 19X, which
is applied to all items and other internal taxes. The financial price has
been converted to economic terms by using the SCF of 0.9.
24.         All seeds, with few exceptions, are available to farmers at market
determined prices and the financial prices are assumed to reflect their
economic value.
Economic Analysis
25.         Expenditures related to the institutional strengthening of MARA,
policy reforms, the pilot program for on-farm efficiency improvements and
other small expenditures for minor repairs have not been included because they
are not amenable to conventional economic analysis.
26.         An economic evaluation has been carried out on the infrastructure
rehabilitation component covering main canals, drainage systems, distribution
networks, rural roads, and pumping station. This component accounts for about
65% of the total project expenditures. The schemes selected for investment
have been classified into: (a) integrated system rehabilitation (main canal,
drainage, irrigation network, rural roads); (b) partial rehabilitation
(irrigation network and/or rural roads); (c) diversion structures for flood
irrigation; and (d) renovation of pumping stations.
27.         An economic rate of return was calculated for each scheme from
which an overall ERR for the infrastructure component of the project was
derived. The results show that the ERR for the integrated system
rehabilitation is estimated at 23% and the NPV at about 900 Dh million. (ERRs
for the individual schemes are provided in Annex 7). Results of the economic
analysis of the sub-components are summarized as follows:



-63-                          Annex 6
Page 6 of 8
Table 1. Economic Rates of Return (Z)
Type of Rehabilitation              Investment       % of total
Cost          Project Cost      ERR
--- (Mdh)--      ----(X)-----      (X)
Integrated System Rehab.              933              40             20
Partial Rehabilitation                205               10            24
Flood Irrigation Schemes              127                5            15
Pumping Station Renovation            232              10             30
Total                        1,497               65             23
Evaluated Schemes as X of :
Total project cost                2,520                65            23
28.         Flood irrigation schemes in the two southern ORMVAS, Tafilalet and
Ouarzazate, have low ERRs since they are based on high risk flood irrigation
in areas with low agricultural potential. They hre sensitive to changes in
both cost and benefits. More complete data is required on such schemes for
further evaluation before making a final determination. They will be reviewed
in the course of completing design works. These schemes have been included
because of the important social and regional benefits.
29.         The estimated economic life of the rehabilitated physical
infrastructure is as follows: 30 years for main canals, and 15 years for
distribution networks, rural roads and pumping stations. A physical
contingency of 10 has been added to the investment cost. No residual value
is included in the investment streams at the end of the assumed economic life.
All capital costs incurred to date were treated as sunk costs. Construction
works would begin in 1993 and are expected to be completed in 1998. The
phasing of construction works of the irrigation rehabilitation and procurement
of pumps and equipment was based on actual implementation experience under the
LSII-1 project.
Sensitivity and Risks
30.         Sensitivity analysis has been done on the viability of the schemes
under adverse conditions. The results of the tests are summarized in Table 3
below. Switching values were used to determine the percentage changes in key
variables required to reduce the project's NPV to zero or the ERR to the
opportunity cost of capital. The sensitivity of individual schemes to changes
in benefit and cost streams varies widely, as would be expected from project
activities spread over nine ORMVAs. Switching values have been calculated for
the infrastructure rehabilitation component and tested against variations in
key variables.



- 64-                         Annex 6
Page 7 of 8
Table 2. Sensitivity Results
Switching
value
Increase in rehabilitation cost       .        67%
Decrease in benefits                           42%
Lag in benefits (in years)                      4
31.         The results show that (at a discount rate of 11%, the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Morocco), such schemes are relatively
insensitive to cost overruns and lower crop prices and more sensitive to
reduced benefits from lower production due to limited availability of water
supply. Thus, critical determinants in the viability of these schemes are the
availability and reliability of irrigation water supply and sustainability of
completed schemes. The NPV of the system rehabilitation is not sensitive to
the SCF used. The test results show that relatively large adverse conditions
would be requiied to reduce the economic viability of the project to below
acceptable levels.
Table 3.   Sensitivity Tests on ERR
Variables
ERR
Base Case      +10%       +20%      +50%
Increase in costs                 23           20         18        13
Decrease in Benefits               23          20         17         8
Decrease in cost & benefit                     18         13        10
Lag in benefits (4 years)                      16         13        11
32.         Project Risks.  The risk of delayed physical implementation is
small since most of the design work for rehabilitation works is substantially
completed.  Technical risks are limited because the ORMVAs posses the
technical know how and experience to plan, design and implement the
rehabilitation works. The provision of consultant services should help reduce
risks related to the technical supervision of schemes spread over nine
Governorate. Institutional risks include weak management and coordination
between concerned agencies and insufficient cost recovery and budget
appropriation by the Government to the ORNVAS. The introduction of the MIS
and associated improvements in planning, budgetir.n and accounting methods is
expected to strengthen the ORMVA management and thus would reduce these risks.
Policy reforms on appropriate water charges and improved collection rates
would increase ORHVA's financial sustainability and reduce budgetary
subsidies.
33.         Environmental Impact.  The proposed project is not expected to
produce a significant change in environmental conditions. Since it is



- 65-                         Annex 6
Page 8 of 8
concerned with the more efficient operation of existing irrigation
infrastructure, specific provisions have been made for reduced environmental
impact in areas surrounding irrigation schemes. Special attention would be
given to upper catchment impact and status of land bordering irrigated areas
once the schemes are fully developed. An environmental assessment would be
required prior to rehabilitation of any major irrigation schemes.
March 7, 1993
[M: \WOLDU\MOROCCO\PAGI2\ECONANAL.WP11
M: \VILLARET\YCREPOR6\ANNEX6



- 66 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. General
1.    In order to support the incorporation of environmental concerns into the
long-term development and operation of the large scale irrigation sector, the
Government undertook the preparation Ot a Sectoral Environmental Assessment (EA).
The study was prepared by SECA-BCEO4 of France with the support of the MARA
personnel from central units and the ORMVAs. Preparation of the study was funded
by a Y 35 million allocation from the Japanese Grant Fund (equivalent to about
US$260,000).   The study was prepared by an interdisciplinary team of 15
specialists. The final version of the Sectoral EA is expected to be issued in
October 1992.
2.    The Sectoral EA was complemented by the preparation of a field based
project specific "environmental review" which was prepared by an environmental
specialist from SECA as an integral part of the project preparation process. The
scope of the Sectoral EA and environmental review were defined on the basis of
the findings and recommendations of an environmental consultant who participated
in the identification mission for the proposed project.
3.    The following B, C and D sections summarize the conclusions of the draft
Sectoral EA. They will be adjusted as required during loan negotiations to take
into consideration Government comments.
B. Current Environmental Imnact of LSI
4.    In addition to its considerable effect on agricultural production, revenues
and exports, Morocco's large scale irrigation (LSI) has a significant positive
environmental impact by:
(a) reducing the emigration flow to the already congested urban areas, due to
the employment opportunities created in areas with low agricultural
potential;
(b) reducing the flood damage to river beds and agricultural land, due to the
construction of large reservoirs;
(c) reducing the spread of waterborne diseases (bilharzia and malaria), due to
reclamation of some wetland areas within irrigation schemes; and
(d) raising spontaneous consciousness of the ORMVAs on the necessity of a
better environmental protection.
5.    However, LSI development also has adverse environmental effects, including:
(a) the rise of superficial aquifers, resulting in waterlogging and salinity
problems (Gharb, Loukkos, Ouarzazate, Tadla, and Tafilalet);



- 67 -
Armex 7
Page 2 of 5
(b) a contribution to the growing depletion of aquifers used for private
irrigation (Haouz and Souss);
(c) the release of agricultural pollutants to the rivers;
(d) an increase of waterborne diseases due to poor maintenance of LSI systems
(bilharzia and malaria) and absence of potable water and sanitation
facilities in LSI areas (amebiasis, hepatitis and typhoid, in particular);
and
(e) the reduction of the biodiversity as a result of wetland reclamation.
C. Potential Risks and Lone-Term Issues
6.    The potential risks of environmental deterioration mainly stem from the
pollution of aquifers with nitrates and of surface effluent with agricultural
chemicals. Any significant increase of pollutant content would seriously affect
the downstream population (Tadla) or wetlands (Loukkos, Gharb and Moulouya).
7.    In  addition,   there  are  environmental  issues  associated  to  LSI
sustainability and related to the conservation of natural resources. They
include:
(a) the depletion of water resources, due to the high rate of sedimentation of
the reservoirs resulting from erosion in the upstream watersheds;
(b) the growing eutrophication of water in the reservoirs resulting from
excessive use of agricultural chemicals in the watersheds; and
(c) the increasing desert encroachment on the two saharan ORMVAs, resulting
from overgrazing and deforestation in the surrounding areas.
D. Recommended Measures
8.    By focussing on infrastructure rehabilitation, O&M enhancement, farmer
participation in O&M and on-farm water use improvement, the LSII-2 Project will
Dartially mitigate the above adverse impact. Although the current environmental
deterioration from LSI has not reached a very high level of intensity, the
existing damage is not going to be entirely mitigated by the Project and
additional measures are recommended for the short- and long-term env.ronmental
protection.
9.    The mitigation measures recommended by the EA include the following (see
attached Table):
(a) watershed protection from erosion;
(b) protection of irrigated areas from erosion and desertification;
(c) applied research and investments in subsurface drainage and salinity
control;
(d) preparation of management plans for the neture reserves of Merja Zerga



- 68 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
and Souss-Massa; and
(e) strengthening of MOPH and training courses of ORMVA staff to improve
control on waterborne diseases.
10. The Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan recommended by the EA
would include:
(a) implementation of studies on drain maintenance, agricultural pollution and
reuse of industrial effluents;
(b) implementation of a training program on general environmental protection
and environmental implications of LSI system O&M;
(c) creation of an environment monitoring unit in each ORMVA;
(d) monitoring of the quality of water effluents from Loukkos, Moulouya and
Tadla to protect consumers from nitrate concentration (Tadla) and wetland
from polluted effluents (Loukkos and Tadla);
(e) monitoring of waterlogging and salinity control in Gharb, Loukkos,
Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa, Tadla and Tafilalet; and
(f) control of water extraction from the Souss aquifer.
E. Proiect Aiproach
11.   The Government fully realizes the importance of the environmental aspects
and is prepared to set up the appropriate institutional arrangements required to
implement the recommendations contained in the Sectoral EA and project specific
environmental review. In this respect, an Environmental Protection Unit would
be created within DGRHA to supervise or coordinate, at the central level, all
environment-related actions  supported by  the Project.    An  environmental
specialist would be assigned to DGRHA, with qualifications and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.  In addition, an interministry Environment Committee
would be created in MARA to review progress in implementing the measures taken
by the ORMVAs and the others Ministries in relation with the Project.   The
submission of detailed arrangements for the creation of the two above entities
would be a condition of negotiations and the assignment of DGRHA's key staff,
including the environmental specialist, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
12.   The creation of an Environmental Protection Bureau in each ORMVA as
recommended by the EA is part of the recrganization process underway for the
installation of the Management Information System in the ORMVAs. The formal
approval of the new organization chart, including such a bureau in four ORMVAs
(Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla) would be a condition of negotiations. The
reorganization of the other ORMVAs along the same lines would be effective by the
end of 1994 (three ORMVAs) and 1995 (two ORMVAs).   However,  institutional
strengthening, training and monitoring activities concerned with environmental
protection will take place in all ORMVAs from the beginning of LSII-2.



- 69 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
13.   The Project would support the environmental mitigation and monitoring
activities which are summarized in Table A. In addition, measures will be taken
to coordinate project activities with mitigations which would result from the
implementation of complementary projects currently under preparation.   The
financing of 12 tubewells in the Souss-Massa ORMVA would be subject to the
condition that measures acceptable to the Bank are taken by the Government to
protect the aquifex. as recommended by the Sectoral EA.
14.   The Project would ensure and monitor the participation of other Ministries
with regard to the control of agricultural pollution by MOPW, reuse of industrial
effluents by the Ministry of Industry, and the monitoring of water quality by
MOPW.
15.   The actions recommended for the control of erosion of watershed, protection
of irrigated areas against desertification and strengthening of MOPH are paLt of
large programs underway in DEFCS of MARA and MOPH. The Project would monitor
progress in implementing such programs and take measures to ensure close
coordination with the design and implementation of the proposed Watershed
Management Project. The development of management plans for nature reserves will
be considered for support under the proposed Environmental Management Project.
16.   An integrated pest management Plan in the LSI areas would be supported by
the Bank-financed Irrigated Areas Support Services Project currently under
preparation.



-  70-                           Annex  7
Page 5 of 5
Table A
STAF  APrsAL REO?
SEcDm LamE CuAz  mGwzoN nEPROVEHENT PRWBCT
SuimsarY of Recomendations from the Sectoral Environmental Assessment
and Pro1ect Specific Ezviroinmetal. Reviw
Para.#                        Recommandationa                         Responsi-    Measures included in LSII-2
of EA                                                                 bility
Report__
I.MTTIGATON MEASURES
7.1.1     (a)  Watershed protection from erosion
(i) planning and implementation of                       DEFCS           Proposed Watershed
watershed protection projects;                                      Management Project
(ii) promote biological solutions;
(iii) training and farmer involvement
(iv) applied research
7.1.2     (b) Protection of irrigated areas from
(i) erosion (Moulouya, Tadla). and                     2 ORMVAs    -  Windbreaks in Moulouya
(ii) desertification (Ouarzazate and Tafilalet)           DEFCS      -   Pilot Activitie under
LSII-1
7.3.1     (cc  Subsurface drainage
(i) Drainage systems in Gharb, Loukkos,
Moulouya, Tafilalet and Tadla                       5 ORMVAs    )   Supported by LSII-2
(ii) Applied research.                                   ORMVAs
7.4       (d)  Natural Reservations of Mer3s Zerga and Souss-
Massa:                                                                 Propo-ud Enviroamental
preparation of management plans                          DEFCS           Management Project
7.5       (e)  Control of Waterborne Diseases
(i) Strengthening of MOPH                                MDPH       - To be reviewed by the
9 ORMVAs    Environmental Committee, as
an element of coordination
and monitoring.
(ii) Training of ORMVA staff                                         -  Supported by LSII-2
2. IZNVEDUVRO L FOUCNI£LX A1iD MUhUAH3ENT PL.AN
8.1-3     (a)  Implementation of Studias on:
Ci) Drains maintenance                                 9 ORMVAs    -   Supported by LSII-2
(ii) Reduction of agricultural pollution                  MARA       -     Supported by LSII-2
(iii) Reuse of urban and industrial effluent            MOIndust.   - Proposed Pilot Wastewater
Reuse Irrigation Project
8.4-5     (b) Implementation of a training program on:
Ci) Overall snvironmental protection (higher               MDI       -   Supported by LSII-2
level staff);
(Li) O&M of drainage systems (support staff).            9 ORMVAs    -   Supported by LSII-2
9.1       (c)  Creation within each ORMVA of a unit to monitor                      4 units estabLished under
environmental impact of irrigation.                                   LSII-i
9 ORMVAs    5 Units to be established
under LSII-2
9.2       (d) Monitoring of the quality of water effluent from
the Tadla, Moulouya and Loukkos schemes                  MOPW            Supported by LSII-2
9.3       (e)  Monitoring of waterlogsing and saLinity in the
Gharb, Loukkos, Moulouya. Ouarrasate, Souss-           7 ORMVAs          Supported by LSII-2
Massa, Tadla and Tafilalet.
9.4       (f) Monitoring of the Souse aquifer                            MOPW           Supported by LSII-2



- 71 -
Annex 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVMENT PROJECT
Criteria for ORMVA Eligibility
for Direct Bank Lendin8
During the mid-term review, to be held three years after loan
effectiveness, ORMVA eligibility for direct Bank financing would be assessed
on the basis of their existing and potential financial performance. Criteria
of eligibility involve both ORMVA and MARA and would be as follows:
1.    Each ORMVA would have:
(a)   adequately implemented all obligatiois set out in the Project
Agreement by the date of the mid-term review;
(b)   submitted accounting and budgeting statements consistent with the
MIS installed by the project and audited by independent auditors,
covering:
(i)   fiscal year 1995 for the Haouz, Moulouya and Souss-
Massa; and
(ii)   fiscal years 1994 and 1995 for the Doukkala, Gharb,
Loukkos and Tadla;
(c)   started implementing an action plan to improve the water metering
system and procedures in the sprinkler irrigated areas;
(d)   covered by their own resources the entire O&M costs, including
overhead for water distribution;
(e)   submitted a report discussing the possible options for addressing
the main issues affecting the medium-term development of the
irrigated area within the territory of the ORMVA, in particular
those issues affecting the ORMVAs' future financial performance.
2.    The Government would have implemented to the Bank's satisfaction and by
the date of the review, all obligations set out in the Loan Agreement, in
particular those related to the monitoring of the ORMVAs' financial
performance, increase of water charges and the implementation of the "Sector
Development Program".



- 72 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANT STUDIES
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SAGI (DER)
(Ref. paras. 5.32 - 5.36)
PREPARATION OF POLICY REFORMS
I. Options for Lone-Term Rehabilitation
Objective of Technical Assistance
1.         To assist (i) each of the nine ORMVAs in identifying the options
for long-term rehabilitation activities, and (ii) DER in the consolidation of
said plans into a sub-sector program.
Terms of Reference
2.         With the assistance of consultants, each ORMVA would:
(a)    review the inventory of existing infrastructure and
equipment including age, status of depreciation and current
replacement value;
(b)    identify technological improvements contemplated through
rehabilitation;
(c)    discuss replacement/overhaul schedule and plans;
(d)    review the budget allocation to rehabilitation over the last
five years;
(e)    identify and estimate an emergency program (two years), a
medium-term program, (5 years) and a long-term program (15
years); and
(f)    propose a financirg plan including farmer and Government
contribution.
3.         With the assistance of said consultants, DER would:
(a)    take a consistent approach to the technological issues;
(b)    define a depreciation schedule for typical structures and
equipment, to be used for each individual plan ((b) above);
and
(c)    prepare consolidated sub-sector investment and financing
plans.



- 73 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Manpower Requirements: 22 man-months
II. Improvement of Water Delivery Conditions
Objective of technical assistance
1.         To assist the ORMVAs and DER in the preparation of standard
contracts for water delivery to farmers.
Terms of Reference:
2.         With the assistance of consultants, DER would:
(a)    define the overall technical and legal framework;
(b)    set out the clauses which would be applicable nation-wide;
and
(c)    consolidate the ORMVAs' proposals into subsector contracts
containing specific clauses for each ORMVA.
3.         With the assistance of said consultants, each of the seven ORMVAs
engaged in the sale of water would prepare and submit to DER draft contracts
containing the general clauses defined by DER and proposing the particular
clauses reflecting the specific aspects and issues for water delivery in the
area under its jurisdiction.
Estimated Manpower Reguirements: 5 man-months
III. Restructuring of the Water Pricine System
Objective of Technical Assistance
1.         To restructure the water pricing system in LSI to take into
consideration the growing intersectoral competition for water and the
increasing costs for development of additional water resources.
Terms of reference
2.         For each ORMVA the consultant would:
(a)    prepare a projection of the water resources available to
irrigation in the long term and the related development
costs;
(b)    prepare water demand projections using several options for
demand management;
(c)    propose a pricing structure reflecting the economic cost of
water, covering actual O&M expenditures of the ORKVA; and



74                            Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
(d)    present several options to adapt the water price to the
small and less efficient farmers and to gradually adjust the
current tariff to the proposed water prices.
Estimated Manpower Requirements 50 man-months
IV. Options for LSI Legal and Institutional Framework
Objective of Technical Assistance
1.         To propose options for updating the legal and institutional
framework for LSI.
Terms of Reference
2.         The consultant would:
(a)   Legal Aspect
(i)    compile and analyze the existing legislation;
(ii)    define the technical and institutional options taken by
Morocco for water distribution, pricing and use in the LSI
schemes;
(iii)    propose summary of updated legislation; and
(iv)    following Government approval, work out detailed draft
legislation and submit to the Government for approval.
(b)   Institutional Aspect
(i)    analyze the ORMVAs' role (including water distribution,
system construction and agricultural support services) in
the light of the Government's options for decentralization,
rationalization of public enterprises and promotion of the
private sector;
(ii)    identify and discuss  ntions and issues for the
restructuring of the ORMVAs;
(iii)    make recommendations to the Government and assist in
presenting a solution; and
(iv)    prepare detailed draft legal documents defining the ORMVAs'
role and responsibilities.
Estimated Required Manpower 30 man-months



tri h.. h.,h IIIle' thr                                                                              TANGER
"Ib WI'  -h sonnnisncJ
of r.odsrs ond is for fh-t8
intsrol urc of rho World rsotA
Grou. Th. dooo-noioos ureOUA
-nd rho bo-ndoi                                                                                            /                                                                ORMVA
poti of Ph. World PooE GroupA
rodyutsontlorrlut!11AOUEN                                                                                                                                      NA OfR Iool
sodofl.nrot or oossptoro of    
ouoS boondoriss.!\                                                                           \y                                                                               &              oOn_
AZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/j92 \ < lAOUNAlE     0        R
CA$AElLANCl   ;              t                     A VFRA1EI                                             CA
eL-JADIDAf-8er           [~L       PUPAh  IR'AE  ARA                                                            CAPITALS      , 
r 1s  0  :          |         5~~~~~~ETTAt  KH           Ow    m          (                                     /                               t 
f   d      . 7                                 >            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERRACHIDA YLrT                    ,.
28'~ ~   ~                                 I                    :.r      !ora,/2/ >TA IA                                                           E _                .co
>   <+s.4 nlwz, A             w  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g ~~A  L G  E R I A
C09   _   _/e1  \   t     <        7                              U S ∞                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
;,.                                         .            go$\+~~~~~~0   SECOND LARGE SCALE !RRIGATION
T12IN                                                                _Ft                                     IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
.   ,RAILROADS
f            /                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORMYA LIMITS (OFFICE REGIONAL DE M#S EN VALEURAGRIlCOI-E)    *                                AIRPORTS
/                    /'                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL OFFICE FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT       PORTS
/                    {                              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AkGE SCALE IRRIGATION_AtEAS:                O    SELECTED TOWNS AND CncIES
>                  ,t                                     tK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXSTING IRRIGATED AREAS                $    PROYINCE CAPITAL'w
| r ~~~~~~~~~~FUTURE ItP'5ATED AREAS                                                       lb    NATIONAL CAPITALS
;                      ~~~~~~~~~f PAM$ TO BE CONSTRUCTE                                            I  NTERNATIONA. BOUNDARIES
/ TAN TAN                       |                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I EXISTINGODALAS
rO ra,lo>o                    j                                     ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS                                           t NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES lAPPROXIMATEi
23@                           j                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS                                                   8
APRIL R99i



