Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22454
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35870; SCL-3587A; SCPM-3587S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 215 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR THE SECOND LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
June 28, 2001
Natural Resources, Rural Development and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Average throughout the duration of the project)
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham DH
DH 1.00 = US$ 0.099
US$ 1.00 = DH IO.1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF          Agricultural Development Fund
AFD          French Development Agency (Agence Francaise de Developpement)
AGR          Administration of Rural Engineering (Adninistration du Genie Rural)
CAMM         Computer-assisted maintenance management
DDGI         Directorate for the Development and Management of Irrigation (Direction du
Developpement et de la Gestion de l'Irrigation)
EMP          Environmental Monitoring Plan
ESW          Economic and Sectorial Work
FPO          Farmers' Professional Organizations
IAAS         Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LSI          Large Scale Irrigation
LSII-1       First Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
LSII-2       Second Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
MADREF       Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and Forestry (Ministere de 1'
Agriculture, du Developpement Rural et des Eaux et Forets)
MIP          Management Improvement Plan
MIS          Management and Information System
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
ONE          National Authority for Electricity (Office National de l'Electricit6)
ORMVA        Regional Authority for Agricultural Development (Office R6gional de Mise en Valeur
Agricole)
PIM          Participatory Irrigation Management
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAGI         Service for Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement (Service d'Amilioration de la Grande
Irrigation)
TRM          Tadla Resources Management project
WUA          Water User Association
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Salah Darghouth/Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Hassan Lamrani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Kingdom of Morocco
Second Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  12
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                            20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      3
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  4°
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                    4 1
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                   1
Annex 10. Borrower Project Assessment                                                  62
Annex 1 1. Borrower Comments                                                           73
Annex 12. Cofinanciers Comments                                                        81
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005462                                        Project Name: SECOND LSI IMPROVEME
Team Leader: Hassan Lamrani                                TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SECOND LSI IMPROVEME                            L/C/TF Number: CPL-35870;
SCL-3587A;
SCPM-3587S
Country/Department: MOROCCO                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/24/89                                 Effective: 09/22/93            09/22/93
Appraisal:  12/10/92                                  MTR:  12/01/96              12/01/96
Approval:  03/30/93                                 Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/Ministry of Agriculture; GOVERNMENT/Rural Development;
GOVERNMENT/Water and Forestry
Other Partners: KfW, AFD
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                          Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:       Salah Darghouth-Doris Koehn               Odin Knudsen
Team Leader at ICR:   Hassan Lamrani                            Jean Pierre Villaret
ICR Primary Author:   Hassan Lamrani; Van Tuu
Nguyen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the Second LSII project, as stated at appraisal, are: (a) to enhance efficiency of



water distribution systems through rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and improved operation; (b) to
preserve public investments in LSI through appropriate maintenance; (c) to reduce budgetary costs of
O&M activities in LSI by increasing cost recovery from beneficiaries and strengthening ORMVA
management capabilities; (d) to enhance efficiency of water use by irrigators through improved irrigation
techniques and appropriate on-farm investments; and (e) to ensure better environmental protection by
implementing environmental monitoring plans in all LSI areas.
The objectives were clear and in accordance with the actual and urgent needs of the LSI sector in Morocco
which required substantial public investments whose sustainability and economic and financial profitability
had to be secured. The project objectives were also to help Morocco preserve its water resources both in
quantity and quality, and enable it to face up to the growing demand for and depletion of easily accessible
water resources. Lastly, the project objectives were in line with the Bank's assistance strategy to Morocco,
which stressed the need to improve public sector management, foster private sector development and
alleviate poverty, in addition to consolidating macroeconomic adjustment and reform.
The LSII2 project was the extension of a US$46 million LSII-1 project which had the similar objectives
and had been implemented between January 1987 and June 1993.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not formally revised at mid-term review. However, as a result of the drastic
reduction in the amounts of some components (see paragraph 3.4) certain objectives became somewhat
inconsistent with the project activities. Such is the case in particular, of objective (d) on on-farm water use
efficiency improvement (see paragraph 4.1.4).
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 Presentation of the components: the project consisted of the three following components:
a) Component 1: Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$229.8 million) including:
- Reconstruction of irrigation distribution systems (52,000ha)
- Upgrading of 5 main canals
- Rehabilitation of flood irrigation schemes in the ORMVAs of the South (21,000ha)
- Improvement of subsurface drainage schemes (1 9,OOOha) in 3 ORMVAs
- Replacement of pumping equipment (58 pumping stations)
- Rehabilitation of a thousand kilometers of roads
b) Component 2: Institution Building and Policy Reforms (US$79.3 million)
bl) ORMVA Institutional strengthening:
- Provision of equipment
- Construction of buildings
- Technical assistance and studies, namely O&M studies in all ORMVAs and introduction of MIS in
the 5 ORMVAs where it had not been introduced under LSII- 1
- Training of ORMVA staff on O&M procedures, accounting methods, irrigation practices and
environmental protection
- Strengthening of the Service for Large-Scale Irrigation (SAGI) within AGR
-2 -



b2) Policy Reforms for:
Making decisions on:
- Increasing of irrigation water charges with the objective of recovering O&M costs and a reasonable
portion of the depreciation costs
- Signing of Management Improvement Plans (MIP) between Government and 7 ORMVAs, so as to
improve their performance and facilitate their monitoring by the Government
Adopting and implementing action plans aimed at improving LSI long-term sustainability, through:
- Establishing water delivery contracts between the ORMVAs and users with the objective of
clarifying the responsibility of both parties
- Establishing a long-term rehabilitation plan
- Water tariff restructuring to take account of water scarcity
- Study of LSI institutional framework restructuring options and making decisions on the required
improvements
c) Component 3: On-farn Water Use Efficiency Improvement: (US$58.2 million)
- Pilot demonstration of improved irrigation practices
- Rehabilitation of 9,500 farm hydrants in the sprinkler irrigated areas
- Support to on-farm private investment in 21 ,OOOha
- Creation and support of 400 Water Users Associations (WUA)
3.3.2 Assessment of components design
a) Component 1 on Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation was broadly well designed and adequately fulfils
the project objectives of improving water distribution systems and ensuring a better protection of the
environment.
b) Component 2 on Institutional Building and Policy Reforms
bl) Sub-component on ORMVA strengthening was meant to help meet all the five project objectives.
Studies, technical assistance and training of ORMVA staff were necessary to help optimize investments,
rationalize O&M services, modernize administrative and financial management systems so as to set cost
control and implement environmental monitoring plans. Provision of vehicles and computer equipment
were meant to contribute to improve the efficiency of the O&M services and the implementation of
environmental monitoring.
b2) Sub-component on policy reforms is key for the achievement of all the project objectives. Yet, it was
not defined in a sufficiently precise way at appraisal and did not take into account the lessons leamed from
the previous LSII-I project. In this respect, reform of the legal framework of ORMVAs allowing for a
clear distinction between the public service missions that are supposed to be financed by Government
budget and the commercial-type services that ought to be paid by fanners was not explicitly defined. The
basic principles of such a reform should have been defined during project preparation, while confining the
institutional study included in the project to the sole comparison of the different restructuring options
designed to materialize those principles. Also the management improvement plans and the water delivery
contracts which govem the relationships of ORMVAs respectively with Government and users would have
been better defined and would have had more chance of being successfully implemented if they were
established on the basis of the institutional study results.
c) Component 3 on On-Farm Water Use Efficiency: All the activities proposed under this component
- 3 -



contribute indeed to improving on-farm water use efficiency. The water user association-related activity
should have been however accompanied at project preparation by a detailed analysis of the role expected
from water user association (WUA) in LSI areas on the basis of the lessons learned from the previous
LSII-1 project.
3.4 Revised Components:
As a result of the Government's severe budget cuts, project total financing dropped from US$367.3 million
to US$264.1 million i.e. a reduction of 28%. More specifically, the amounts of project components were
cut down by 22% for component 1 (from US$ 229.8 million to US$180 million), by 21% for component 2
(from US$79.3 million to US$62.8 million) and by 64% for component 3 (US$58.2 million to US$21.3
million).
The major activities which were affected by these budget cuts are as follows:
a) Component 1: Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Reductions mainly affected the following activities:
*     Full rehabilitation: a reduction of 15,300ha (see Annex 1, table 3)
*     Rehabilitation of flood irrigation schemes: a reduction of 2,900ha
*     Rehabilitation of subsurface drainage schemes: a reduction of 5,000ha
*     Reduction of the rural roads rehabilitation program
b) Component 2: ORMVA Strengthening:
Under this component, reductions affected a large number of vehicles (82%) and maintenance equipment
(80%) as well as cancellation of the building construction program (see details in Annex 1, table 4).
Maintenance and institutional studies were limited to two pilot ORMVAs.
c) Component 3: On-farm Water Use Efficiency Improvement:
Only the amount provided for the rehabilitation of farm hydrants was kept under this component. The
amounts allocated to equipment for pilot demonstrations of improved irrigation practices, water metering
equipment and Water User Associations were cut down by 86%, 69% and 94% respectively.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the project was broadly well designed with the exception of the policy reforms sub-component as
described above. Quality at entry is therefore rated partially satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
-4 -



4.1.1 Enhancing efficiency of water distribution systems through rehabilitation and improved operation of
irrigation schemes:
Water use efficiency at the irrigation network level was difficult to measure because of the absence of
reliable water metering systems. However, according to results of the beneficiary surveys conducted in the
rehabilitated areas (Annex 8.1), the majority of the farmers confirmed that there was a clear improvement
in irrigation conditions: an increase in the water flow received at farm-gate estimated at 11% on average in
the Beht irrigation scheme (ORMVA of Gharb) and a 35% increase in the water flow diverted from the
river to Tarnata palm-grove (ORMVA of Ouarzazate).
At the pumping stations level, ORMVAs' annual performance reports show that the "energy cost per m3"
(which depends on several factors such as energy efficiency, pumping stations management and tariffs)
witnessed in all ORMVAs a significant drop from DH 0.33/m3 in 1995 to DH 0.19/m3 in 2000 (Annex 1,
table 6.1), primarily as a result of a better management of the pumping stations taking best advantage of
the off-peak tariff rates proposed by the National Authority for Electricity (ONE).
4.1.2 Preserving investments in large-scale irrigation through appropriate system maintenance:
At the technical level, capabilities of the ORMVA maintenance services were relatively satisfactory and
were reinforced by training sessions and computer tools provided under the project. In addition, ORMVAs
have been increasingly outsourcing part of their maintenance tasks to the private sector (see Annex 1, table
6.2).
At the financial level, credit amounts which were allocated to maintenance suffered from the same budget
limitations as the other operating expenditures. Maintenance expenditures per equipped hectare witnessed a
significant decrease from DH469/ha in 1995 to DH325/ha in 2000 (Annex 1, table 6.1) and were, with the
exception of the ORMVA of Tadla, below standards (from 26% of standards in Gharb to 116% in Tadla;
see Annex 1, table 6.2).
4.1.3 Reducing Government budget transfers for O&M activities:
Achievement of this objective is analyzed below on the basis of three financial performance indicators of
the water service within ORMVAs: operating account balance, water charge collection rates and budgetary
transfers. These indicators have been estimated using the results of the modem accounting system
("comptabilite de type enterprise") which has been successfully introduced under the project in all
ORMVAs:
a) Operating account of the water service:
The overall rate of coverage of water service costs (excluding depreciation and including overhead) by
water turnover (amounts billed) of the 7 ORMVAs (not including Ouarzazate and Tafilalet) improved
significantly during the project period (from 89% in 1994 to 104% in 1999/2000). This improvement was
mainly due to water tariff increases which were implemented starting in 1996/97 (see paragraph 4.2 b2).
Since then, the water turnover came to fillly cover O&M costs. Analysis by ORMVA (Annex 1, table 1.2)
shows however that the balances of operating accounts of the water management service in the Doukkala
and Tadla ORMVAs have always been positive and have improved since the beginning of the project;
those of Souss-Massa and Loukkos ORMVAs are chronically negative (namely because of a high energy
bill), while in the Gharb, Haouz and Moulouya ORMVAs the operating accounts are more or less balanced
(except in 2000 for the ORMVA of Moulouya where water sales were very low due to shortage in water
supply).
-5-



b) Water fee collection rate:
The water fee collection rate (amount recovered/total debts including arrears) witnessed a decline from
71% for 1990-1995 to 56% for 1996-2000. This is far below the target rate of 88% set at appraisal.
Analysis by ORMVA (Annex 1, table 2.2) shows however three performance categories: moderately
effective (Moulouya, Tadla and Haouz: 60 to 70%), not much effective (Doukkala and Souss-Massa: 50 to
60%) and very little effective (Gharb and Loukkos: 40 to 50%).
c) Budgetary transfers for the water management service:
Water sale revenues (amounts recovered including arrears) cover more than 90% of water service
expenditures (excluding depreciation but including overhead). The Government budget transfers for O&M
activities to the 7 ORMVAs were stable between 1994 and 2000 (around DH45 million per annum) despite
the increase in water tariffs since 1996 whose impact has been offset by the decrease in the water charge
collection rate (Annexl, table 1.1). Analysis by ORMVA (Annexl, table 1.2) shows however three
categories: no subsidies for Tadla and Doukkala, moderate subsidies for Haouz and Moulouya (except for
2000), and substantial subsidies for Loukkos, Souss-Massa and Gharb ORMVAs.
4.1.4 Water use efficiency improvement
This objective was expected to be achieved through effective pilot demonstrations of irrigation practices in
the surface irrigation areas and through rehabilitation of farm hydrants in the sprinkler irrigated areas. As
a result of budget cuts, very few pilot demonstrations were carried out. Rehabilitation of farm hydrants
was carried out and had positive impacts at several levels. In areas where it was implemented, it facilitated
a greater adoption of demand-driven irrigation (i.e better adjustment of water supply to crop needs), more
reliable water billing, and reduction in water losses. It was an incentive for farmers to repair/replace their
mobile irrigation equipment. All of these positive impacts have been confirmed by the results of the
beneficiary survey which was conducted in the Doukkala irrigated area (see Annex 8.1).
4.1.5 Improved environental protection through implementation of environmental monitoring plans:
In accordance with the provisions of the loan agreement, an Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP) was
developed in 1995. Implementation of this plan was entrusted to environmental units created within
ORMVAs and AGR, and progress reports were to be prepared every six months
As agreed, reports on the environmental conditions in the LSI areas were prepared every six months
providing useful monitoring data on the depth of water tables, surface and subsurface water as well as soil
quality. However, this information was presented in an unstructured way, which does not make it possible
to have a good assessment of the status of the environment in the irrigated areas. Although no specific
impact measurements were carried out, it can be validly stated that the rehabilitation works and upgrading
of irrigation system operation have led to some improvement of the environmental situation in the irrigated
areas due to a reduction of water losses.
4.1.6 Conclusions on evaluation of project objective achievement:
In summary:
*     Overall, the objective to improve efficiency of water distribution systems has been achieved in the
rehabilitated areas.
The objective to preserve investments in LSI through appropriate system maintenance has been
- 6 -



jeopardized by the insufficient budget proceeds allocated to maintenance.
*     The objective to reduce budgetary transfers for O&M activities has been partially achieved despite
tariff increases whose impact was offset by the decrease in water fee collection rates.
*     The objective to enhance on-fann water use efficiency has only been partially achieved
*     The objective to ensure better environmental protection in the irrigated areas may be considered as
achieved in the rehabilitated areas, but implementation of the Environmental Monitoring Plan has not been
given due priority.
In conclusion, the achievement of the project objectives is considered as partially satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by comnponents:
4.2.1. Component 1: Infrastructure rehabilitation:
This component is rated satisfactory. In quantitative terms, the achievements were in accordance with the
revised estimates agreed during the mid-term review (Annex 1, table 3). The most significant rehabilitation
works financed by the Bank concemed the Beht area (5,013ha in the ORMVA of Gharb) and the Faregh
area (9,098ha in the ORMVA of Doukkala) where irrigation and drainage networks have been completely
rebuilt. The Triffa area (15,21 8ha in the ORMVA of Moulouya) and the Beni-Amir area (7,400ha in the
ORMVA of Tadla) have also benefited from substantial rehabilitation works. The other areas have
witnessed partial rehabilitation works concerning specific structures (pumping stations, etc ...).
In qualitative terms, the supervision missions which were carried out throughout the project considered that
the works have been achieved in a satisfactory way. However, it should be mentioned that certain design
and execution problems in the rehabilitated area of Beht have been raised by farmers during the beneficiary
survey (Appendices 8.1 and 8.2).
Finally, actual costs of full rehabilitation works were 10% higher only than projected costs with the
exception of the Faregh scheme where the gap reached 26% (Annex 1, table 3).
4.2.2. Component 2: ORMVA Strengthening and Policy Reforms:
a) ORMVA Strengthening:
*      Provision of equipment: While actually procured vehicles, mopeds and maintenance equipment
represented 80%, 65% and 69% of what was planned during mid-term review, provision of computer
systems reached 149%. This has definitely enabled ORMVAs to modernize their general management
methods and enhance their efficiency. As shown in Annex 8.3, during the beneficiary survey ORMVA staff
confirmed the very beneficial impact of the computer systems provided under the project, but complained
about the lack of vehicles to undertake field visits as frequently needed.
*      Construction of buildings : This activity was cancelled during project restructuring.
*      Studies and technical assistance : These essentially included rehabilitation and O&M studies in the
9 ORMVAs and Management and Information Systems (MIS) studies in five ORMVAs.
-  Rehabilitation studies : these were all carried out.
- 7 -



- System Operation Studies: These studies aimed at developing management tools and procedures
for managing the whole irrigation water distribution system. They were launched by the 9
ORMVAs but faced several problems: long delays, disagreements with the consultants on the
interpretation of the terms of reference, etc., which, in some cases, led to their premature
cancellation (Moulouya and Gharb). In the ORMVAs where these studies were completed, most of
the recommended actions have not yet been implemented.
- System Maintenance Studies: Only two studies were conducted for Moulouya and Loukkos.
Studies for the other ORMVAs were postponed with Bank consent because of much too high costs.
It was therefore decided to wait for the results of these two studies before expanding them to all the
other ORMVAs. The maintenance study in Moulouya has been completed while the O&M study in
Loukkos (financed by KfW) is suffering from serious delays. The Computer-assisted maintenance
management (CAMM) system installed in Moulouya has started to give good results: the data base
is linked to all pumping stations where specific information on equipment characteristics,
monitoring of its operation, activities of the maintenance staff, stocks of spare parts, etc. is reported
and processed with a view to recommend maintenance actions when needed.
- MIS studies: These studies aimed at designing and implementing information and management
systems with the objective of improving the ORMVA organization, accounting system, internal
auditing and management and computer systems. The MIS of the 5 ORMVAs concerned by LSII2
were installed. The private accounting system (general accounting and cost accounting) were
implemented in all ORMVAs and are giving satisfactory results in terms of cost monitoring of the
different missions and activities and asset monitoring (inventory and stocks). In addition to these
direct results, such new tools have enabled regular generation of relevant performance indicators
and instilled a modern corporate management spirit into the ORMVAs. Yet, the use of these tools
as a decision-making aid is still very timid.
-     Training of ORMVA Staff: A large training program was planned under the project (nearly
15,000 staff-weeks) in O&M, accounting methods, on-farm irrigation and environmental protection. Most
of this program has been implemented (amount engaged: US$ 1.66 mnillion out of US$ 1.74 million
projected). Although it has been quite difficult to assess its impact on the upgrading of staff qualifications,
the ORMVA staff survey (Annex 8.3) has shown that this program was highly appreciated.
In conclusion, despite the problems encountered in the acquisition of vehicles and in the preparation
of the O&M studies, achievement of the ORMVAs strengthening sub-component is deemed
satisfactory.
b) Policy Reforms:
*     Water tariff reforms restructuring: Water tariff reforms were planned to be implemented in two
phases. During a first phase, the level of water tariffs would be upgraded within the framework of the
existing legislation so as to cover 100% of O&M costs and a reasonable portion of depreciation costs. In
the second phase, the water tariffs would be restructured to better reflect the increase in water scarcity and
the competition from other sectors.
The water tariff study was completed in 1996 and recommended a tariff adjustment plan based on
recovery of all O&M costs except in some irrigation schemes where pumping costs are extremely high.
As presented in Annex I, Table 7, this tariff adjustment plan has been satisfactorily implemented and
- 8 -



targeted tariff reached in 18 of the 24 sectors.
As to farmers' contributions to the initial investment costs ( participation directe) which has been set by
the Agricultural Investment Code at 40%, an amendment to this code in 1997 introduced two
significant modifications: canceling the exemptions granted to holdings below 20ha (representing a
large majority of farms in the irrigated areas) and extending its application to rehabilitation works.
These new provisions have been applied to the newly constructed schemes but not yet to the
rehabilitated ones.
Management Improvement Programs (MIP) between Govemment and ORMVAs and Institutional
study: The MIPs which were signed at the end of the LSII-1 project by the ORMVAs of Tadla and
Doukkala have not started to be implemented yet, while those established by the other ORMVAs under the
LSII2 project have never been signed.
Following difficulties in implementing these activities, the mid-term review mission recommended to
the Government to conduct institutional studies in two pilot ORMVAs: the ORMVA of Tadla under
the USAID-fmanced Tadla Resource Management project and the ORMVA of Souss-Massa under the
LSII2 project. These two studies were designed in a very different way. The first one focused namely
on the legal framework of the ORMVA of Tadla and recommended the form of "a public trading
institution" (Etablissement Public a caractere Industriel et Commercial, EPIC) and a MIP
(contrat-programme) to be signed with the Government for public service missions. As to the
Souss-Massa institutional study, it fell in the line of the current legal framework and focused on
management aspects. The recommendations of these two studies were not implemented.
*     Establishing water delivery contracts with users: In accordance with the loan agreement, and as
part of an action plan aimed at improving water delivery conditions, the Borrower prepared in 1994
standard water sale contracts. However, as this provision is not enshrined in a well-defined institutional
framework binding on all parties, it has only been partially enforced in some ORMVAs (Haouz, Moulouya
and Loukkos) and its effectiveness has not been proven yet.
*     Establishing a long-term rehabilitation plan: To avoid a lengthy and costly study, the mid-term
review mission recommended that ORMVAs should on their own prepare rehabilitation plans which some
of them have indeed done. In addition, a consultant was hired to prepare a medium term
rehabilitation/modernization plan which defined a priority program at the total cost of DH1,700 million
half of which has been entered under the country's five-year economic and social development plan
2000-2004.
In conclusion, and based on the above, achievement of policy reforms sub-component is deemed
partially satisfactory.
4.2.3. Component 3: On-farm water use improvement:
*     Pilot demonstration of improved irrigation practices: Following the reduction in the loan at
mid-term review, the amount allocated to this activity underwent a severe cutback (86%), and as a result,
there has been no significant achievement.
*     Rehabilitation of farm hydrants: In the sprinkler-irrigated areas, farm hydrants are crucial
structures and their good operation is essential at it helps ensure optimal use and reliable measurement and
-9-



fair billing of irrigation water. Under the project, a total of 9,500 farm hydrants was expected to be
rehabilitated. This was however brought down at mid-term review to 3,700 to take into account the sizeable
increase in unit costs (projected price: DH6,000, actual price: DH20,000). At project completion, about
3,000 hydrants were rehabilitated (Annex 1, table 5), which led to a significant improvement of the water
service in the rehabilitated areas (see 4.1.4 above and beneficiary survey in Annex 8.1).
*      Improving on-farm equipment: This activity was designed to be financed by farmers in addition to
a grant of 30% from the Agricultural Development Fund (ADF). It was expected to include: land leveling
over  1,1 OOha, improvement of farm ditches over 8,2001m, sprinkler equipment over 9,500ha, and
introduction of drip irrigation over 1,OOOha.
In the irrigated area of Tadla, this activity was supported by the USAID-financed Tadla Resources
Management (TRM) project and brought about satisfactory results: expansion of drip irrigation from
595ha in 1995 to 2,981ha in 2001and expansion of land leveling from Oha in 1997 to 2,000ha in 2001
including 500ha of laser-guided land leveling. Elsewhere, results were less good except in the sprinkler
irrigated areas where farm hydrants were rehabilitated, which encouraged farmers to repair/replace
their on-farm equipment.
Aware of the significant impact that upgrading irrigation practices may have on water savings,
Government has set up plans to increase the contribution of ADF in the acquisition of modem
irrigation equipment by farmers.
*     Support to Water User Associations (WUA): The project intended to promote the creation of
about 400 WUA. These were meant to represent a vehicle for facilitating the adoption of on-farm
demonstrations of irrigation practices in addition to their participation in O&M of public infrastructure.
During the project period the number of WUAs has gone up from 157 in 1995 to 445 at present. Yet, the
majority of these associations are not fully operational. Some of them, do play however a useful
consultative role (see results of the survey with 17 WUA in Annex 8.2).
The limited success in the promotion of operational WUA in LSI areas is largely due to the absence of
a clear strategy. It is worth noting however that the Ministry of Agriculture and the ORMVAs, with the
support of the Bank, tried to palliate this weakness and have since 1995 engaged in a process of
definition and implementation of Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) in LSI areas. This
initiative materialized in a first seminar held in November 1995 which recommended the establishment
of a PIM master plan with the objective of deflning the general guidelines and restructuring the legal
framework of the WUA. These recommendations have not been implemented. A second seminar was
organized in December 1999 with Bank support with the objective of establishing action plans for
distributing O&M tasks among ORMVAs and WUAs. These action plans have not seen any significant
implementation on the ground because of a lack of clear vision of the WUA role, a low motivation
among farmers and an inappropriate financing mechanism.
Two possible approaches can be considered for the role of the WUAs:
- The first approach considers that LSI management is the business of professionals and should
therefore be handled by specialized institutions that have the necessary technical and financial
capabilities. According to this view, the role of WUAs should be limited to consultation/advocacy
of users interests/control, while the water service would be entirely ensured by the specialized
institution.
- 10-



- The second approach is in line with what has been developed in some countries (Mexico, Turkey,
and more recently India). It calls for a full transfer of irrigation management to WUAs within the
framework of management contracts. According to this view, the water user associations would be
entrusted with complete irrigation system O&M activities, while the role of ORMVAs would be
confined to the management of the head works and main conveyance schemes and to the sale of
bulk water to the WUAs.
Each of the two options has its own advantages and drawbacks depending on the type of irrigated area
(traditional or modem, surface or sprinkler irrigation, large-scale or small-scale). An in-depth
comparison of the two options should be undertaken for each irrigated area.
For their part, farmers in modem irrigation schemes see no interest in organizing themselves within
WUAs because they consider that most system maintenance works are beyond their technical and
financial capabilities and that ORMVAs fulfill their mission in a more or less satisfactory way.
In conclusion, considering only those activities maintained after project restructuring,  the
achievement of component 3 is rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, economic analysis was carried out on a number of sub-projects amounting to 65 % of
irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation costs. Institutional strengthening and policy reforms as well as
on-farm water use efficiency improvement components were not considered amenable to conventional
analysis largely because of the difficulty in quantifying benefits. The overall Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) was estimated at 23 %. That estimate was based on ERRs alculated for each type of rehabilitation
: from 15 % for the flood irrigation schemes to 30% for the pumping stations renovation.
ERR estimates made in this report slightly exceed the appraisal ones (Annex 3, table 1). The overall ERR
is estimated at 25%, ranging from 12 % for full rehabilitation to over 50 % for partial rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation unit costs were on average slightly below the appraisal estimates except for the irrigation
scheme of Beht (ORMVA of Gharb), the cost of which was almost three times higher than the average cost
used in economic analysis at appraisal. This explains the very low ERR (hardly 1%) for this particular
scheme.
The Net Present Value at the Opportunity Cost of Capital of 11 % (similar to the appraisal one), amounts
to DH2,529 million (about US$250 million) or more than twice the appraisal estimate. Switching values
show that ERRs are not sensitive to possible costs or benefits variations.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
At appraisal, comparison of the rates of return with and without project showed that farmers' income would
increase from 20 % to 100 %.
Gross benefits calculated for the main crops, though slightly lower, confirmed these overall estimates.
Current benefits are estimated to increase from a minimum of 20% for date palm trees to nearly 80% for
potatoes. Benefits for most of the main crops increased from 20% to 35%. However, yields increases are
still modest and the potential for improvement is high.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
- 11 -



Under both LSII-1 and LSII-2 projects, Management Information Systems (MIS) have been established.
Departments in charge of the financial management in the nine ORMVAs are now equipped with an
operational modem accounting system (Comptabilite de type entreprise), linked to all other activities
through appropriate management software. Telecommunications through Intemet connect the 9 ORMVAs
between them and to Central Directorates in Rabat, which allows better coordination and harmonization of
decision making and task execution. Training has been successfully conducted for technical, agricultural
administrative, accounting and management activities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During project implementation, Morocco was stricken by a series of severe droughts (1994/95, 1996/97,
1998/99 and 1999/2000) that had seriously reduced water resources available for irrigation. This has
considerably affected several aspects of the LSII-2 project among which collection of water fees and
financial situation of the ORMVAs and consequently O&M of irrigation systems.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The LSII-2 loan amount was reduced three times during project implementation. These reductions were due
to severe national budget constraints that prevented the Government from maintaining the LSII-2 activities
as designed at appraisal. Project components were consequently adjusted according to the available
financial resources. As described above, this seriously hampered the implementation of several project
components.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ORMVAs and the AGR, in their capacity as implementing agencies, have generally ensured an
effective monitoring of the project both at physical and financial levels. However, implementation of policy
reforms, notwithstanding the problems linked to their formulation under the project, has suffered from
hesitation from Government officials, particularly in matters of irrigation water pricing, water fees
collection and actual involvement of water user associations.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The severe budgetary cuts mentioned above led to successive reductions in the project expenditures and in
the loan amount. At mid-term review, the scope of several project components was reduced to take account
of these cuts.
At appraisal, the estimated project total cost was US$367.3 million, of which US$215 million were to be
financed by a Bank's loan, US$98 million by the Government, US$35.3 million by the ORMVAs of
Doukkala and Tadla and US$19 million by farmers.
At appraisal, the Governnent sought to reduce its contribution by calling on other donors. This move came
to be successful as two loans were signed with KfW to the benefit of the ORMVA of Loukkos (US$14.6
million) and with AFD to the benefit of the ORMVA of Gharb (US$8.4 million). These two loans became
effective in 1995. The AFD loan was closed in June 1998 and the closing date of KfW's loan will be closed
in 2002.
Contribution by the ORMVAs has been lower than planned. However the ORMVA of Tadla was able to
finance rehabilitation works amounting to US$8.7 million using its own resources. On-farm investments
carried out by farmers have not been estimated.
- 12 -



Bank loan was reduced three times. The total amount of the three cancellations was US$71 million and a
remaining undisbursed balance of US$16 million was cancelled just before closing date. As a result of
these successive cuts, Banks loan was reduced to US$128 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 Rehabilitation works:
The technical and organizational capacity of the ORMVAs have improved significantly and are now
generally adequate to ensure appropriate O&M of the rehabilitation schemes carried out under the project
as well as their sustainability. However, the low level of the budgets allocated to system maintenance
represents a constraint for the ORMVAs, which could be attenuated if water sale revenues were to be
allocated in priority to the water service.
Sustainability of investments under the project depends also on the extent to which beneficiaries are
involved in O&M activities. The ORMVAs should exert considerable efforts in order to raise the
awareness of water user associations and provide them with adequate support in the areas which have
benefited from rehabilitation works.
6.1.2 Institutional strengthening of the ORMVAs:
The project has enabled significant improvements in the management of the ORMVAs, namely through the
introduction of modem management tools used in private enterprises. This has helped instill a new
corporate culture amnong the ORMVA staff who increasingly think in terms of cost control, performance
indicators, rational management of human resources, etc. To ensure sustainability of this important
outcome, the officials at the Central Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture and ORMVAs should make
sure that development of cost accounting statements and performance indicator reports shall continue and
urge ORMVAs' staff to make full use of them.
6.1.3 Policy reforms:
The tariff water increase process was a major achievement of LSII-2 project and ought to be pursued with
the view of recovering water service costs in all ORMVAs. Specific efforts should be made to improve
collection rates so that these water tariff increases be effective. Water sales income should be allocated to
the water service in order to ensure appropriate maintenance of irrigation systems.
6.1.4 Conclusion on project sustainability
In conclusion, sustainability of the investments achieved under the project is to a large extent contingent on
the implementation of institutional reforms which would enable total recovery of the water service costs and
the allocation of water revenues to system operation and maintenance activities.
as part of the review discussions of the present ICR, MADREF officials confrmed their readiness to
engage with the support of the Bank (within the framework of the ESW planned for FY02) on the
preparation of action plan needed to fully implement these reforms. In addition, the Govemment recently
requested support from the Bank in implementing public-private partnerships for the achievement of new
projects in the areas of Gharb and Souss, which confirms that they are open to implement new institutional
- 13 -



initiatives in the large-scale irrigation sub-sector.
In view of the above, taking account of the continued Government commitment to these institutional
reforms, the project sustainability is deemed likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As the project is based on rehabilitation works and upgrading of the water service in areas that are already
irrigated and managed by specialized institutions (ORMVAs), there is no particular provision for transition
to regular operation. ORMVAs enjoy enough technical capabilities to ensure regular operation of the
schemes achieved under the project. Further increases in O&M budget and a greater implication of users
through WUAs would certainly help improve operating conditions in the irrigated areas.
With respect to Monitoring and Evaluation indicators of the project after its completion, it would be
desirable for ORMVAs to pursue the establishment of annual reports on technical and financial
performances and of their summary by AGR while improving them namely through the introduction of
technical performance indicators on irrigation systems which should be measured on a regular basis.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance at project identification was satisfactory. The Bank took account of the needs of
Morocco in: (a) rehabilitating and modemizing the irrigation systems, (b) building capacity and
implementing modernized management tools, (c) improving water distribution and water use efficiency.
However, at preparation and appraisal, the content of the project became too ambitious and did not
evaluate the specific features of the ORMVAs and the depth of institutional weaknesses. Risks of
unavailability of counterpart funds were also inadequately estimated.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of the project was satisfactory and, despite Bank's budgetary restrictions, enough
resources were allocated to implement this important and complex project. The high priority given to the
computerization of all ORMVAs' operations allows a close monitoring of all project components.
Networking systems put in place for the project's major activities allowed the coordination and
harmonization of decisions and actions. The procurement standard bidding documents greatly facilitated the
procurement procedures. However, as the project covered nine regions scattered all over Morocco, this
made field trips difficult and time consuming.
Project supervision quality was audited three times (in FY97, 99 and 00) by QAG and was found
marginally satisfactory in FY97 and satisfactory in FY99 and in FY00.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In line with the above, overall Bank performance was satisfactory during both preparation and
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
- 14 -



Borrower performance at identification and appraisal was satisfactory. All the concerned entities closely
participated in and effectively contributed to Bank's work. Decisions were taken and executed at field and
central levels. Considerable support was provided to Bank teams.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The lack of a clear vision in large-scale irrigation policy did not enable the Government to take the firm
commitment to undertake all the necessary institutional reforms agreed under the project. The launching
of the National Irrigation Program, as a priority program designed to expand the irrigated areas, has to
some extent been detrimental to the execution of the LSII2 project both in terms of the resources allocated
and implementation of the necessary institutional reforms.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Administration of Rural Engineering (AGR) and the Directorate for the Development and
Management of Irrigation (DDGI) ensured good monitoring of the project and were fully supportive for all
their activities except for the launching of the water tariffs increase process which was greatly delayed. The
ORMVAs implemented the investment components of the project in a satisfactory way, but were lukewarm
about implementation of the institutional reforms proposed under the project and for more involvement of
WUAs in O&M activities.
All financial and other covenants mentioned in the loan agreement (a total of 14) and in the project
agreement (a total of 8) were complied with except for the 3 following covenants:
X     Covenant 4.02 in the project agreement fixing specific water charges collection rates for each
ORMVA.
a     Covenant 4.04 in the project agreement prescribing the allocation of water service revenue surplus
from the past year to project financing.
*     Covenant 4.05 in the loan agreement calling on the Borrower to take all measures necessary to
enable each ORMVA to meet its obligations under clause 4.04 of the project agreement.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the Borrower is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Project design:
The idea of a project combining rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure, support to the ORMVAs,
implementation of institutional reforms and improvement of on-farm irrigation, is quite relevant, as this
responds to the real and urgent needs of the sector. The project fulfilled part of those needs, but much more
is yet to be done to upgrade large-scale irrigation such as rehabilitating irrigation systems, upgrading
O&M, consolidating institutional reforns or enhancing on-farm water savings. The Moroccan Government
has designed an important program for the rehabilitation of irrigated areas within the five-year economic
and social development plan for 2000-2004. The World Bank should continue to grant support to the
Government in this sector which plays a central role in the agricultural development of the country and
which has required heavy investments that need to be made cost-effective and sustainable. However, within
the framework of a new project, focus should be placed on more radical institutional reforms and on more
saving and efficient use of irrigation water by fanners.
- 15 -



The concurrent but separate execution of the projects, LSII2 and IAAS (Irrigated Areas Agricultural
Services Project, Loan No. 3688-Mor) which are both financed by the World Bank, presents positive and
negative aspects. On the one hand, this project which specifically handles agricultural development issues
in the irrigated areas induced greater motivation among the staff of the ORMVAs' agricultural services
who considered the project as "their project", and promoted consensus-building among them. On the other
hand, separation of the two projects has not permitted integration of water service improvement and
agricultural development activities. If a new project were to be started, it would be recommended to
integrate the two facets while defining implementing mechanisms which would allow involvement of
agricultural development services.
The limited success of the institutional reforms recommended by the project was, to a large extent, due to
the fact they were not based on a clear distinction between public and commercial missions of the
ORMVAs. This reform was essential to ensure the quality and financial viability of the water service and
sustainability of the important investments carried out. An in-depth analysis of this question should be
engaged at the earliest by the Moroccan Government with the support of the World Bank.
From an original loan amount of US$215 million, only US$128 million have eventually been utilized,
mainly because of the Government budget constraints. These constraints should have been better assessed
at preparation and, in future, ought to be seriously considered in the course of preparation of any new
project.
It has not been possible to fully assess the level of execution of the project objectives, namely the
improvement of water service, for lack of relevant evaluation indicators defined by the project. Installation,
from the beginning of the project, of water flow metering devices at critical points in the irrigation networks
would have made it possible to ensure monitoring of water distribution efficiency which constitutes a
key-indicator for the appraisal of rehabilitation and system maintenance activities. At preparation of
projects, special attention must be granted to the definition of relevant indicators for assessing the
achievement of the objectives and mechanisms to be put in place for measuring them.
8.2 Project implementation:
8.2.1 Rehabilitation works
Full rehabilitation of irrigation networks in certain cases (like in Beht) costs as much as construction of a
new network (over DH60,000/ha). To prevent degradation of networks from reaching such a situation,
regular preventive and timely remedial system maintenance should be undertaken. This requires skilled and
motivated staff and adequate financial means that cannot be easily mobilized within the framework of the
current operating budgets of the ORMVAs. Allocation of the water sale proceeds directly to cover water
service expenditures would provide the necessary means to ensure adequate system maintenance and save
the community the burden of costly investments required by rehabilitation.
The beneficiary survey on rehabilitation works (Appendices 8.1 and 8.2) has given rise to criticism of the
design and execution of certain projects. Without judging whether this criticism is well-founded, it should
be noted that the involvement of the beneficiaries throughout the entire process from the diagnosis of the
shortcomings up to the acceptance of the executed works would have helped better adapt the projects to the
needs of farmers and urged the latter to take care of them . Execution of rehabilitation works represents the
best opportunity for setting up water user associations (WUA) on a sound and negotiated basis. It is
therefore recommended for future projects to launch the rehabilitation works only after the creation of the
- 16 -



WUAs on the basis of a contract that clearly defines the roles of all concerned parties.
The rehabilitation plan which was established under the project has revealed several cases of degradation in
reinforced concrete canals and pipelines which are apparently due to manufacturing problems. These
problems are particularly serious in semi-circular canals used in surface irrigated areas. Such
manufacturing defects reduce the economic life of the irrigation networks and cause frequent rehabilitation
works. Consultation among the ORMVAs, canal manufacturers and specialized testing laboratories would
help find solutions to this problem which jeopardizes the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation
networks.
8.2.2 Technical assistance and studies
O&M studies undertaken under the project which have required substantial investments witnessed several
problems (delays, unsatisfactory outputs...) in almost every ORMVA. In such circumstances, it is difficult
to blame the engineering consultants alone. Clarity and exactness of the terms of reference of these studies
should also be questioned. In future, special attention should be paid to the terms of reference of studies by
checking whether their objectives are clear and if the activities entrusted to each of the parties are
specifically defined.
8.2.3 Water tariff restructuring and water fees collection
The crucial nature of water tariffs and water fees collection for the preservation of this scarce and precious
resource and for the financial balance of the water service should induce the Moroccan Government to
show more determination and firmness in this field. Awareness-raising campaigns aimed at farmers on the
value of water and on the need to preserve it and pay for it at its fair value would help establish a better
understanding of water tariff increases and settlement of water bills on a more regular basis. Agricultural
extension services should focus their efforts on the objective of reducing farmers' water bills by channeling
them toward less intensive water-consuming crops and advising them on water-saving techniques.
Upgrading agricultural productivity in irrigated areas would also contribute to a higher water charge
recovery while improving farmers' payment capacity.
8.2.4 Rehabilitation of farm hydrants:
In the areas where farm hydrants rehabilitation was performed, positive results were reached in the field of
water and energy savings and in the operation of pumping stations and sprinkler-irrigated networks. With
respect to future rehabilitation programs, this operation should be expanded to all sprinkler-irrigated areas.
8.2.5 Creation of Water User Associations (WUAs)
During the last five years, officials in the LSI sector have become increasingly aware of the importance of
the Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM), although this awareness has not yet found its expression in
the creation of operational and effective water user associations. This is due to several reasons: no clear
definition of the role of WUA, low motivation of water users to organize themselves in associations and get
more involved in the management of their networks, an inappropriate legal framework for funding the
activities entrusted to the WUA and insufficient means in the ORMVAs for an effective support of WUAs.
The first action to undertake would consist in building consensus over the final objective of PIM: does PIM
mean a mere consultation, a participation in minor O&M tasks or the transfer of management responsibility
for a specific part of irrigation systems? This discussion on the role of WUAs should be part of the overall
analysis of the institutional framework for LSI with the objective of better defining the missions of the
- 17 -



ORMVAs and clarifying their relationships with the Government on the one hand, and with the farmers'
professional associations and water user associations, on the other hand.
Implementation of the Participatory Irrigation Management requires significant human and material
resources for supporting WUAs (education, creation of WUAs, training, assistance in management
tasks...), resources that are difficult to provide within the framework of ORMVAs' budgets. Priorities
should, consequently, be established for the creation of and support to the WUAs, and the first priority
should be given to those sectors which benefit from substantial investments such as the expansion or
rehabilitation of irrigation systems.
8.2.6 Imrplementation of Environment Monitoring Plan (EMP)
Enviromnental monitoring in LSI areas is a task of utmost importance to which ORMVA officials should
allocate appropriate human and material resources in order to be able to produce adequate follow-up
reports offering a relevant diagnosis of the environmental situation and launch potential timely corrective
actions.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
al) Borrower Project Assessment:
The Government sent to the Bank their own evaluation of the Project wholly attached in Annex 10, the
main conclusions of which are presented below:
Project design:
*     There were shortcomings in project design, especially in respect of institutional reforms,
*     Separation of the two projects LSII-2 and IAAS (Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services project)
was detrimental
Achievement of Project Objectives:
*     The impact of rehabilitation works were very positive, but the project did not make provision for
an adequate budget for implementing efficiency measuring systems to help evaluate this impact.
*     Significant efforts were made to upgrade equipment maintenance, but it remains much too far from
required standards (50% on average)
*     Financial viability of the water service was improved through the increase of water tariffs, but
consolidation of this outcome requires improving of the water charges collection rates, as well as increasing
of the budget allocated to maintenance and pursuing efforts aimed at increasing tariffs and controlling
costs.
*     The project helped strengthen the operational and management capacity of ORMVAs through
implementation of modem management tools, but further efforts are yet to be made for an optimal use of
these tools.
*     Rehabilitation of farm hydrants, which is the sole activity maintained under on-farm water use
efficiency improvement component, generated a positive impact.
*     Environmental Monitoring Action Plans were established, but not implemented due to insufficient
financial resources.
Achievement of support measures:
- 18 -



*     Review of the tariff system was implemented
*     Participation of the private sector increased by 10%.
*     Promotion of Water User Associations encountered two major difficulties: elimination of support
actions and absence of a clear definition of their role at project design. In the areas of Tafilalet, Ouarzazate
and Haouz, WUAs take an active part in the management tasks of irrigation networks, while in other areas
they are increasingly involved in programming and monitoring tasks.
*     The rehabilitation plan was established.
*     Program-contracts could not be established until the MIS were installed. They were not
implemented due to the absence of an appropriate institutional framework.
*     The study on the review of the institutional framework was not achieved, because its content and
scheduling had not been clearly defined at project preparation.
*     Environmental Monitoring Action Plans were established.
Borrower and Bank Performances:
*     The active involvement of all stakeholders in project preparation contributed to develop ownership
of the project by the implementing agencies.
*     All activities planned under the project were achieved without delays nor exceeding costs.
Commitments provided for in the loan agreements were complied with.
*     Monitoring of project execution was carried out in a very satisfactory way by SAGI (project
management unit).
a     Support from the Bank within the supervision missions helped overcome project design
shortcomings and adjust actions.
Conclusion:
The achievements under LSII-2 are undeniable, but the large-scale irrigation sub-sector is still
characterised by signs of vulnerability. Efforts should be pursued to consolidate these achievements
through (i) strengthening of ORMVAs income, (ii) rehabilitation of irrigation systems, (iii) intensification
of efforts to improve water distribution and water use efficiency, (iv) pursuing efforts aimed at
strengthening ORMVAs capacity and (v) readjusting the institutional framework.
a2) Government Comments on the report prepared by the Bank:
The AGR (Administration of Rural Engineering) sent to the Bank a memo including their comments on the
first draft implementation completion report. This memo is attached in Annex 11 ; the most significant
comments are presented below:
*     The report did not highlight the activities related to repairing floods damages achieved under the
project.
*      The budget provided for under the project for installing efficiency measurement equipment was not
sufficient.
*     Evaluation of the objectives achieved should have been done separately for each ORMVA.
*     Ratios of maintenance expenditure costs used are not significant as they are not based on cost
analysis results.
*     Achievements in the area of promoting WUAs are under-estimated.
*     The Ministry of Agriculture expended all the required efforts in order to implement measures
planned under the project and particularly tariff revision.
*     Cost per hectare of full rehabilitation in the area of Beht is high because it includes the cost of the
main canal which feeds a much larger area than the one rehabilitated.
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 19 -



KfW and AFD sent to the Bank their comments on the first draft implementation completion report.
These comments are enclosed in Annex 12 and summarised below:
bi) KfW Comments:
*      KfW confirms that, broadly speaking, the project objectives were not reached.
*      KWfW confirms the weaknesses in the design of the institutional reforms, but considers that the
Government and the Bank could have expedited the achievement of the institutional reform study
planned under the project.
*      Project activities co-financed by KfW in the ORMVA of Loukkos generated good results but
their sustainability is not ensured. Major reasons affecting this sustainability are: (i) the low water
charges collection rate, (ii) the public nature of ORMVAs and (iii) the lack of integration of WUAs in
the management of the irrigation schemes.
*      In conclusion, KfW broadly confirms the analysis developed by the Bank in the implementation
completion report and considers that clarification of the legal framework is the key issue in the
large-scale irrigation sub-sector in Morocco.
b2) AFD Comments:
*      AFD shares most of the conclusions in the Bank report
*      Rehabilitation of water pumping stations in the area of Gharb financed by AFD under LSII-2
generated good results, but sustainability of these investments is compromised by the institutional and
financial vulnerability of the ORMVA of Gharb.
*      ORMVA of Gharb is carrying out an institutional study within the framework of a new
irrigation expansion project co-financed by AFD.
*      In conclusion, AFD confirms the need to lay stress in the new projects on the institutional
reforms with the view to ensuring the involvement of different stakeholders according to each situation:
ORMVAs, WUAs, private sector.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex I
Table 1.1: Operating accounts and budgetary transfers in the 7 ORMVAs where water is billed
(amounts in DH million)    1994    1995    1996/9   1997/   1998/9   1999/0
7       98        9         0
Water service charges (ED) including indirect    462      467      514       532      646      584
costs
Water service charges (ID) including indirect             721      824       835     1076      1019
costs
Water service products (water turnover)          409      434      554       588      655      609
Operating account balance for water service      -53      -33       40        56        9       25
(ED)
Water service balance (ID)                               -287      -270     -247     -421      -410
Water products/Water charges ED                 89%      93%      108%     111%      101%     104%
Water products/Water charges ID                          60%       67%      70%      61%       60%
Water revenues of current year                   348      354      302       311      413      361
Water revenues of arrears                         75       61       178      179      181      171
Total water revenues                             423      415      480       490      594      532
Budgetary transfer for water service              39       52       34        42       52       52
Water revenues/Water charges ED               91.6%    88.9%    93.4%    92.1%    92.0%    91.1%
Total revenues excluding subsidies               534      491      568       594      671      629
Total operating expenditures                     916      846      910       918     1000      880
Total budgetary transfer                         382      355      342       324      329      251
Total revenues/Total expenditures               58%      58%       62%      65%      67%       71%
ED = Excluding Depreciation
ID = Including Depreciation
-21 -



Table 1.2: Operating accounts balances and budgetary transfers by ORMVA
ORMVA           BALANCE/TRANSFER (DH million)                     1994      1995    1996         1997/    1998/    1999/
/97         98         99        00
DOUKKAL        Operating account balance of water service (ED)      10         21       46          39         60        49
A
Budgetary transfer of water service                -13        -23      -12         -19        -51       -50
Total budgetary transfer                            27         21       27          28         44       -30
GHARB           Operating account balance of water service (ED)       5       -27        -2          8        42         20
Budgetary transfer ofwater service                   -6        28        19          5        26          8
Total budgetary transfer                            70         99       84          60        68         65
HAOUZ           Operating account balance of water service (ED)      -7        19        -4          9         -1        -6
Budgetary transfer of water service                  3         -4        -7          2          3          1
Total budgetary transfer                            37         48       48          42        47         32
LOUKKO          Operating account balance of water service (ED)    -57        -40      -41         -27       -75        -75
S
Budgetary transfer ofwater service                  50         40       46          56         67        67
Total budgetary transfer                           115         84       89         102       103        103
MOULOUY        Operating account balance of water service (ED)      -6         -2         7          0       -13        -35
A
Budgetary transfer of water service                   0         9        -7          3         -8        30
Total budgetary transfer                            40         24       15          -3       -11         64
SOUSS-MASSA    Operating account balance of water service (ED)     -35        -58      -43         -39       -22        -17
Budgetary transfer of water service                 41         60       52          44        34         24
Total budgetary transfer                            60         74       67          75        63         54
TADLA           Operating account balance of water service (ED)     37         54       77          68        62         48
Budgetary transfer of water service                -36        -57      -56         -51       -62        -29
Total budgetary transfer                              1       -16      -18          -8       -27        -20
TAFILALET    Operating account balance of water service (ED)       -15        -22      -10         -10       -11
- 22 -



Budgetary transfer ofwater service                 15        22        10         10        1I1
Total budgetary transfer                           43        45        48         51         51        60
OUARZAZATE'    Operating account balance of water service (ED)     -7       -16       -10        -10       -10         -9
Budgetary transfer of water service                  7        16       10          10        10         9
Total budgetary transfer                           32         49       44          50        45        50
* ORMVA not billing water,
ED = Excluding Depreciation
- 23 -



Annex 1
Table 2.1 Recovery of water fees in the 7 ORMVAs
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE(DHM)         RECOVERY (DHM)                RECOVERY
RATES %
Fisca   Amrrs   Oatst  TOTAL  Aneiays  Otsta  TOTAL  Anmars  Oasta  Ovzr   06ctire
/             andk,g                  *gdh                   ndmrg   all   LSZ2 %
Year
1990    150.2  310.2  460.4   64.6  258.7  323.3          43      83    70
1991    137.1  398.0  535.1   48.9  339.1   388.0         36      85    73
1992    147.1  426.0  573.1   49.2  369.6  418.7          33      87    73
1993    154.1  405.1  559.1   57.0  334.0  391.0          37      82    70
1994    170.1  412.9  583.0   75.1  348.1  423.2          44      84    73      82
1995    165.7  430.9  596.6   60.9  354.1  415.0          37      82    70      85
1996197  323.2  521.1  844.3  178.5  301.5  480.0         55      58    57      88
1997/98   365.6  517.2  882.8  179.4  311.4  490.7        49      60    56      89
1998/99   389.3  633.4  1,022   181.2  412.6  593.8       47      65    58      90
.7
1999/00  428.3  600.3  1,028   171.3  360.9  532.2        40      60    52      91
.6
Table 2.2: Water fees recovery rates by ORMVA (%)
Fiscal Year       DK        GH       HZ        LK       MY        SM          TD
1990                     88        76       56       58         49       65             78
1991                     90        72       70       51         53       66             84
1992                     90        73       61       49         62       68             82
1993                     91        72       62        55        56       72             66
1994                     91        76       74       62         63       62             69
- 24 -



1995                      88         64       62        69         66       44              73
Average 1990-95            90        72       64         57        58        63              75
1996/97                   50         48       74        49         70        52             67
1997/98                   56         43       65        43         71        56             64
1998/99                   61         44       66        47         70        56             67
1999/2000                 59         55       57        41         53        55             56
Average 1996-00            57        48       66         45        66        55              64
Objective end LS112        93        92       90         85        90        85             95
DK=Doukkala, GH=Gharb, HZ=Haouz, LK=Loukkos, MY=Moulouya, SM= Souss-Massa, TD=Tadla
- 25 -



Annex 1
Table 3 Rehabilitation achievements
Sub-project                         Projected     Actual Cost    Variance    Surface    Cost/ha
Cost
DHM           DHM             %           ha    DHIha
Rehabilitation of Beht                    310             331          7%         5013     65946
Rehabilitation of Triffa                   69               77        11%        15218       5046
Rehabilitation of Faregh                  212             267        26%          9098     29297
Rehabilitation of Beni Aniir              139              157        13%         7400     21251
Total full rehabilitation                 729             831        14%        36729      22630
Partial rehabilitation                    842             929        10%
Total rehabilitation                     1571            1760        12%
Table 4: ORMVA Strengthening achievements
Activities           unit  Projecte   Revise  Achieve   Achieved/projecte   Achieved/revise
d        d       d        d                  d
Maintenance          U          62       13        9               15%              69%
equipment
Vehicles             U         228      40        32               14%              80%
Mopeds               U         456     146        95               21%              65%
Buildings            U         152       0         0                0%
Computers            U      5           82       122                               149%
systems
Studies and T.A.     m*        913    NA       NA
m
Training             s*w     14829   NA        NA
NA=not available; m*m=man-month; s*w= staff-week
- 26 -



Table5: Rehabilitation of farm hydrants
Unit        Proj ecte    Revised               Achieved
d
Number                           U            9591        3684                             2962
Total cost*                    DHM              58          58                                62
Average unit cost               DH            6041       15744                            20932
* total cost achieved corresponds to payments at 06/30/2000
- 27 -



Annex I
Table 6.1: Evolution of maintenance and energy expenditures in the 9 ORMVAs
System maintenance                            Energy
Year           Total expenditures   Expenditures/        %                     Cost/J3 pumped
ha equipped           sub-contracting
DHM                 DH/ha                                    DH/m3
1995                        241                    469               43%                   0.33
1996/97                     221                    404               31%                   0.30
1997/98                     197                   412                35%                   0.26
1998/99                      135                   228               31%                   0.17
1999/2000                    198                   325               44%                   0.19
Table 6.2: System maintenance expenditures by ORMVA in 1999/2000
ORMVA              Total         Expenditures/     Maintenance      Expenditures/
expenditures     ha Equipped          ratio*           ratio       sub-contracting
DHM              DH/ha             DHIha
Doukkala                25.7                319             745             0.42             70%
Gharb                   20.1                188             713             0.26             35%
Haouz                   29.3                208             400             0.52             32%
Loukkos                 20.5                778            1000             0.78             27%
Moulouya                33.6                513             566             0.91             23%
Souss-Massa             14.5                378             790             0.48             67%
Tadla                   45.3                465             400              1.16            63%
Tafilalet                6.5                231                                              22%
Ouarzazate               2.7                101                                              26%
- 28 -
* calculated on the basis of the water pricing study data



Annex 1
TABLE N° 7: IMPLEMENTATION OF TARIFF ADJUSTMENT PLAN
FOR IRRIGATION WATER
Adjustements achieved (3)
Dh/m3
Tariff zones           Tariffs     Break-e    Tariff    Adjustem       97/    98/9    99/   Tota    Adjustem
applied       ven      retaine       ent        98      9       00           ents to be
in 96/97    tariff (2)    d        variance                                   achieved
(1)      (Dh/m3)    (Dh/m       (Dh/m3)                                     (Dh/m3)
(Dh/m3)                   3)
I- GHARB
1.1- Beht sectors              0.19         0.26       0.26        0.07        -     0.02           0.0       0.05
without pumping                                                                                      2
1.2- Beht sectors with         0.19         0.26       0.26        0.07       0.0    0.02           0.0        0
pumping                                                                                               7
1.3- Gravity sectors           0.19         0.25       0.25        0.06       0,0      -      0.0   0.0        0
PTI/STI                                                                        5               1     6
1.4- Sprinkler sectors P       0.40         0.45       0.45        0.05       0.0            0.0   0.0         0
TI/STI                                                                         4               1     5
2- HAOUZ
2.1- Central Haouz              0.17        0.22       0.22        0.05              0.03    0.0   0.0          0
2     5
2.2- Tessaout Amont             0.17        0.20       0.20        0.03              0.02    0.0   0.0          0
1     3
2.3- Tessaout Aval              0.17        0.14       0.17               -            -              -         -
3- TADLA
3.1- Beni Amir                  0.17        0.13       0.17
3.2- Beni Moussa                0.17        0.10       0.17
4- DOUKKALA
4.1- Sectors without
pumping (Faregh, S.             0.18        0.12       0.18                                                     -
Smail)
4.2- Gravity sectors B.S
with pumping (Cuvette           0.25        0.23       0.25                                                     0
S. Smail, Sidi Bennour)
4.3- Boulaouane                 0.41        0.36       0.41          _                                          -
4.4- Zemamra                    0.39        0.32       0.39
- 29



4.5- T.Gharbia and ext.         0.34         0.38       0.38         0.04       0.0    0.02      0     0.0        0
Faregh and S. Smail                                                             2                      4
5- MOULOUYA
5.1- Triffa sectors B.          0.19         0.21       0.22        0.03        0.0                   o0
Service                                                                         3
Zebra, Bou Areg
5.2- Triffa Haut Service        0.34       0.60(4)      0.49        0.15       0.0    0.02    0.0    0.0        0.07
4              2       8
5.3- Garet                      0.41         0.62       0.51        0.10       006      -      0.0    0.0       0.02
2      8
6- SOUSS-MASSA
6.1- Massa                      0.47         0.74       0.59        0.12        0.0    0.02    0.0    0.0       0.04
4              2       8
6.2- Souss-Amont                0.38         0.93       0.61        0.23        0.0    0.04    0.0    0.1        0.13
3               3     0
6.3- Issen traditional          0.17         0.17       0.17          -                 -              -          -
6.4- Issen planted              0.49         0.25       0.49
6.5- Issen rotation crops       0.52         0.25       0.52
7- LOUKKOS
7.1- Rmel and Drader            0.40         0.73       0.55        0.15       0.0    0.03    0.0    0.0        0.07
2              3      8
7.2- Plains and low hills       0.40         0.47       0.47        0.07       0.0    0.02    0.0    0.0          0
3              2      7
(1) Effective tariffs in 1996-97 before implementation of tariff adjustment plan .
(2) Break-even tariffs for O&M costs including indirect costs
(3) Adjustment achieved in constant costs 1996 (not including inflation passed on in 1997-98 through application
of indexing formula)
(4) Sectors where retained tariffs are lower than break-even tariffs are indicated in bold character.
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal        Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate           Estimate             Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                            US$ million        US$ million
Infrastructure Reahabilitation                                         175.20                168.60                 0.96
Institution Building                                                     60.50                22.44                  0.37
Water Use Efficiency                                                     44.30                  8.73                  0.2
Total Baseline Cost                                                    280.00                199.77
Physical Contingencies                                                 34.00
Price Contingencies                                                    53.30
Total Project Costs                        367.30               199.77
Total Financing Required                          367.30                199.77
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component                    Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.        CoF.       Bank    Govt.   CoF.
Infrastructure Rehab.          123.80       70.70        35.30        93.00        49.90        25.50      75.1    70.6    72.2
Institution Strengthening      55.50        23.90                     12.00        9.10         1.40       21.6    38.1
On-farm Efficiency             35.70         3.40        19.00        2.80         2.10         3.80        7.8     61.8    20.0
Total                          215.00       98.00        54.30       107.80        61.10       30.70       50.1    62.3    56.5
(1) At appraisal the amount of Infrastructure rehabilitation under CoF. (35.30) corresponded to contribution of ORMVAs of Tadla and Doukkala
(2) At appraisal the amount of On-farm efficiency improvement under CoF. (19.00) corresponded to contribution of Farmers
(3) The latest estimate of CoF. contribution in Infrastructure rehabilitation (25.5) includes: ORMVA of Tadla: 8.7; KfW : 9.5; AFD : 7.3
(4) The latest estimate of CoF. contribution in Institutional strenghthening corresponds to KfW
(5) The latest estimate of CoF. contribution in On-farn efficiency corresponds to KfW; it doesn't include farmers' contribution which could not be
estimated
31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
1.    At appraisal, economic analyses were carried out on about 65 % of project expenditures covering
rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure. Project expenditures for institution strengthening and policy
reforms were considered not amenable to conventional economic analysis because of the difficulty of
quantifyiing and allocating costs and benefits. Furthermore the pilot program to demonstrate water savings
from more efficient water use and other relatively small expenditures, have not been included in the
economic analysis. A similar approach has been followed at completion.
2.     The profitability of the main rehabilitation operations: "Full Rehabilitation", "Partial
Rehabilitation" and "Pump Station Renovation" has been estimated at completion. The viability of the last
one : "Flood Irrigation Schemes" has not been estimated because that component has only be partially
implemented by the project and its benefits have not been assessed.
3.     Due to the fact that nine ORMVAs have implemented several categories of works, at completion, it
has been decided to select a sample of ORMVAs for each of the three main operations
Full Rehabilitation: Moulouya and Gharb ( 50 % of the ORMVAs concemed);
Partial Rehabilitation: Souss-Massa, Loukkos and Tafilalet (33% of the ORMVAs concemed);
and
-     Pump Station Renovation: Moulouya, Gharb and Souss-Massa (33 % of the ORMVAs
concemed).
Selection has been done in close collaboration with the Moroccan officials in order to give a fair picture of
the situation.
4.     Main assumptions underlying the analysis are as follow:
*     project cost and benefit flows have been expressed in constant DH 2000 ; estimated economic life
of the rehabilitated physical infrastructure is 30 years for full and partial rehabilitation and 20 years for
pumping station renovation;
*     project investment and operating costs have been converted to economic costs by removing transfer
payments and using the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) ; in spite of the fact that the trade liberalization
program presently underway has considerably reduced nominal protection, some degree of distortion
vis-a-vis market prices still continue, and hence a SCF of 0.9 has been used;
*      incremental operation and maintenance costs have been estimated at 5 % of investment costs
*      economic prices for the main commodities have been estimated on an import or export substitution
basis as Morocco continues to be a net importer of wheat, sugar and barley and a net exporter of citrus,
olive oil and date palm;
*      for non-tradable goods, domestic financial prices have been used as economic prices;
*      economic prices of fodder have been estimated in line with the economic price of barley on the
basis than one "unite fourragere" equal to one kg of barley;
*      for all farm inputs, farm-gate prices are used as economic prices, as subsidies have been phased
out;
*      economic cost for unskilled labor is valued at 40 DH per day, i.e. 80 % of its average wage rate
estimated at 50 DH; this rate is assumed to reflect the marginal productivity of labor in its alternative use
without the project;
*      for skilled labor, which appears to be fully employed, the market rate has been used as the
- 32 -



economic cost;
*      total irrigated area is only slightly increased (2 %) and incremental water is mainly used for
intensification; and
*      augmentation in yields are moderate and gross margins in financial and economic terms are
expected to increase conservatively only.
5.     The overall economic rate of return is presently estimated at 25 % i.e. two points more than
anticipated at appraisal (see Table 1). It results from a higher than anticipated profitability of partial
rehabilitation (63 % against 24 %) and a lower rate for full rehabilitation (12 % instead of 20 %). The Net
Present Value (NPV) at an Opportunity Cost of Capital of 11 % At appraisal, an opportunity cost of capital of
11 % was assumed
, amounts to DH 2.5 billion (US$ 241 million), or more than twice the appraisal estimate (DH 990 million
or US$ 110 million).
6.     At completion, an economic rate of return has been calculated for five schemes and three pumping
stations. ERR vary from 1 % for the full rehabilitation of the Beth scheme (Gharb ORMVA) to 85 % for
partial rehabilitation at the Massa scheme (Souss-Massa ORMVA). The very low rate of return of the Beth
scheme results from the very high rehabilitation cost per ha which is almost three time more expensive than
the average unit cost estimated at appraisal. The switching values show that the rate of return would have
been above the opportunity cost of capital, should the rehabilitation cost have been only 50 % above the
expected cost. On the other hand, the very high rate of return for partial rehabilitation of the Massa scheme
can be explained by a rehabilitation cost 30 % lower than expected at appraisal combined with high
benefits resulting from high value crops. The switching values show than the rate of return is more sensitive
to reduction in benefits (less 98 %) than increases in costs (plus 4 025 %).
- 33 -



Annex 3
Table 1: Economic Rate of Return
APPRAISAL REPORT                      COMPLETION REPORT
Investment  % of total cost   ERR    Investment    % of        ERR %
cost      of the project    %          cost     total cost
(DIM                                  (DHM)         of the
project
Full rehabilitation              933              37        20          760         43          12
Partial rehabilitation           205               8        24          342          19         63
Flood irrigation schemes         127               5        15           50          3         NA
Renovation of pumping            232               9        30          174         10          31
stations
Sub-total                       1497              59        23         1326         75          25
Total cost of the Project       2520             100        23         1762        100         25
Table 2: Detailed ERRs and Sensitivity Tests
SWITCHING VALUES
Type of rehabilitation   ERR           NPV          Costs        Benefits
(%)         (DH1M          (%)           (%)
Full rehabilitation
- ORMVA Moulouya                          25           198          269           -73
- ORMVA Gharb                              1          -170          -73           264
- Average                                 12           79            16           -14
Partial rehabilitation
- ORMVA Souss-Massa                       85          392          4025           -98
- ORMVA Loukkos                           35           31           385           -79
- 34 -



- ORMVA Tafilalet                        16            2           73           -42
- Average                                63         2976         1990           -95
Renovation of pumping stations             31          359            76          -70
Project                                    25         2529           154          -61
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
05/1989                      2   Irrigation Engineers                S             S
04/1991                     2   Economists                           S             S
I   Agriculturalist                     S             S
1   Sociologist                         S             S
I   Environment Specialist              S             S
2   Financial Analysts                  S             S
I   Institution Specialist              S             S
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/1992                     2   Irrigation Engineer                  S             S
I   Economist                           S             S
I   Financial Analysts                  S             S
I   Sociologist                         S             S
I   Environment Specialist              S             S
Supervision
08/1993                      I   Irrigation Engineer                 S             S
12/1993                      I   Civil Engineer                      S             S
02/1994                      1   Institution Specialist             HS            HS
06/1994                      I   Economist                           S             S
10/1994                      1   WUA Specialist                      S             S
05/1995                      1   Trade Specialist                    S             S
02/1996
06/1996
08/1996
01/1997
06/1997
12/1997
05/1998
01/1999
04/1999
12/1999
06/2000
ICR
06/2001                      2    Irrigation Engineer                S             S
I    Economist                          S             S
I    WUA specialist                     S             S
I    Agronomist                         S             S
- 36 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             172.4                       280.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    112                       259.9
Supervision                            246.6                       811.3
ICR                                     22.5                        85.5
Total                                  553.5                      1437.4
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LM Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
CI Environmental                           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Gender                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Private sector development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
O Lending                                             OHS OS O U O HU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS  O u   O HU
E Overall                                             OH S * S O u 0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
O Preparation                                         OH S * S   O  U  O HU
E Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
Oi Implementation agency performance                  0 HS * S  0  U  0 HU
LI Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Supervision and Mid-Term Review Reports (World Bank)
Semi-Annual Project Progress Reports (SAGI/DDGI)
Annual Audit Reports on Project Accounts
Annual Summary Reports on Technical and Financial Performances of ORMVA (SAGI/DDGI)
Memo on Environmental Monitoring Plan (DDGI, December 1999)
LSII1 Completion Report (World Bank, May 1995)
Proceedings of Seminars on Participatory Irrigation Management - PIM (September 1995 and December
1999)
Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project (Lauwers, August 2000)
Summary Report on Farmers Survey (Hargal, February 2001)
Water User Associations Survey Report (El Alaoui, April 2001)
- 40 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 8.1
BENEFICIARY SURVEY- UNIT 1: FARMERS
1.    SAMPLING, questionnaire AND CONDUCT OF SURVEY
Surveys were conducted during the mionth of January 2001. The number of farmers surveyed amounts to a
total of l10, spread out in a non-identical way in order to better cover the heterogeneous situations
observed and which are different in the three surveyed areas.
Farms surveyed were selected randomly from the client data base of the ORMVAs in the case of Beht and
Zemamra and from the list of AUEA members in the case of the Draa palm-grove:
1.1 Beht: Surface irrigated area, located in Northern Morocco , having benefited from full rehabilitation
39 farms were surveyed of which 22 in rehabilitated sectors and 17 in non-rehabilitated sectors.
Zones and sectors     Non rehabilitated          Rehabilitated            Total
(IA-IC)          (S5/2-S2/3- S8/1-8/2-9/1)
Less than 5ha                  14                      10                   24
5 to l0 ha                     2                        6                    8
Over l0 ha                     1                        6                    7
Total                         17                       22                   39
1.2    Zemamra: Sprinkler irrigated area, located in Central Morocco, having benefited from partial
rehabilitation (farm hydrants and pumping station).
49 farms were surveyed of which 18 in non-rehabilitated sector ZO and 31 in rehabilitated sector ZI under
LSII-2. The latter zone is subdivided into one pilot zone where meters have been installed on the farm
hydrants and the extension zone where hydrants without meters have been installed. Surveys have
deliberately focused on the pilot zone.
NON REHABILITATED          REHABILITATED
Sectors                 ZO                ZlE            ZIP          TOTAL
Less than 5ha            5                 3              10             18
5 to l0ha                10                2              4              16
lOha and over            3                 5              7              15
18                l0             21             49
1.2    Draa: Traditional, surface irrigated area, located in Southern Morocco, having benefited from
- 41 -



construction of a diversion weir
22 farnms were surveyed of which 11 in the rehabilitated sector of Bouzidia and 11 in the non rehabilitated
sector of Taguersifte.
Zones                           Taguersifte            Bouzidia           Total
(non rehabilitated)    (rehabilitated)
Less than 5ha                        3                    10                13
5 to l0ha                            5                     1                6
l0ha and over                        2                     1                3
Total                                10                   12                22
- 42 -



2. SUMAL4RYRESULTSOFFARMERSURVEYINBEHT  (1/2)
Rehabilitated
Non              Befor    Afte    Comments
rehabilitate              r
d
1- WATER SERVICE
Satisfaction of water                   0%                    18%      Water deficit is a chronic situation in Beht, due to water
demand                                                                 shortage at level of dam.
Consequences of water                                                  Farmers say they receive only 75%  of presumnably
network degradasion                                                    ORMVA-billed water flow at farm-gate.
*       Decrease in number
of irrigations                          93%
*       Reduced waterflow               67%
*       Reduced yields                 100%
Positive effect of                                                     Improvement of water flow delivered at fum-gate is
rehabilitation on                                             50%      particularly well perceived by the majority of farmners
(71%). The water flow received is estimated at 87.5% of
satisfaction of water needs                                            assumed flow.
Assurance of minimum
irrigations for servicing
installed crops                                                        Drought has imposed a reduction of water releases from
*       Always and often               47%                    57%      thedam.
       Rarely and never                53%                   43%
Delays observed in water
Delivrys  omarved inwithr                                              Positive effect of rehabilitation on securing water service is
delivery compared with                                                 clearly felt.
projected schedule in                   86%                   52%
the last 12 months
II- BILLING
Reduced water bills                                                    This is due in par to water tariff increases in the last three
after rehabilitation                                          29%      years:42% et 16% respectively in the Beht area with and
without pumping stations.
Farmers admitting billed                13%                   62%      This is due to the improvement clearly noted in the water
water volume                                                           flow that is actually delivered at fam-gate.
III- EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE
Farmers consulted                                     5%               One out of 22 farmers surveyed recognized having been
on rebab.ltation .consulted on rehabilitation
on rehabilitation
Water losses at level                                                  Several farmers consider that rehabiltation has n  settled
of irrigation network                                                  all prblems, and has even crated other in some cases.
*       No or little loss               6%           35%      43%
*    EEnough or Much                    94%          65%   57%
- 43 -



Protection of                                                                 Before or after rehabilitation, almost all those surveyed
irrigation infrastructure                                                     think that ORMVA alone is responsible for protecting
infrastructure, which reveals the state of mind still reigning
in one of the most ancient rehabilitated areas in Morocco.
Acts of vandalism                                                              Authors of these acts are the farmers that do not have citrus
? Widespread or frequent                    65%           66%       83%       plantations and therefore do not receive water allocation
? Widespread orfrequent365%                               66%       83%       under rationing conditions.
? Rare                                      35%           34%   17%
IV- ON-FARM
IRRIGATION
Irrigation systems adopted                                                    All farmers surveyed prefer to use traditional irrigation
techniques: short furrow (robta) or border ditch according
to nature of crops.
On-farm  water losses                       14%                      5%       Very few farmers complain about on-farm water losses.
Acquisition of internal
equipment in the last 5                      6%                      5%
years
SUMMARYRESULTS OF FARMER SURVEYINBEHT  (2/2)
Rehabilitated
Non                 Before     Afte      Comments
rehabilitate
d
V- CROPS PATTERN                                                              Results of the survey do not permit to establish confirmed
trends, due to (i) wateT rationing conditions and (ii)
AND  YIELDS                                                                   pumping in the Beht river which enabled some farmers from
the non rehabilitated zone to partly offset water restrictions.
-44-



VI- CONCLUSIONS
Benefits of rehabilitation
Rehabilitation has had the following positive effects
-     Mitigation of drought consequences, in particular for citrus,
-     Securing the water service within the limits of available water resources,
-     Increase in the water volume which actually reached the farms and which had a positive impact
on irrigated areas and on the water bill.
This impact is not clearly and significantly felt by allfarmers surveyedfor several reasons:
-     Very strict water rationing which occurred right after completion of rehabilitation works,
-     A feeling of discontent and injustice among the farmers that do not have citrus plantations
(25% of sample population) for which irrigation has practically been suspended.
-     Ignorance of the entire project for lack of communication. Farmers' satisfaction would have
been higher and better expressed if the ORMVA had involved them in the design and implementation
of the project.
Requests by farmers
Requests made by the farmers may be summarized in the following points:
-     Complete dismantlement and evacuation of the former network,
- Repair of the specific malfunctioning observed on the new irrigation and drainage networks,
- Reduction of water rotation time (20 to 30 days at present) so that it may become compatible with
vegetable crops,
- Alleviating conditions for direct access of collectively-owned small holdings to the water service, so
as to mitigate the problems relating to designation of a representative for the farmers and to water
charge recovery,
- Creation of water user associations and upgrading of their accountability so as to resolve what
farmers consider as urgent technical problems due to rehabilitation and bring them to participate in
water distribution and protection of equipment, while providing them with the necessary skills and
resources.
It should be noted that malfunctioning of the irrigation and drainage networks reported by farmers in the
rehabilitated zone deserve a technical diagnosis so as to determine their nature (design, calibration,
execution) as well as their qualitative and quantitative importance.
- 45 -



3. SUMMARY RESULTS OF FARMER SURVEYINZEMAMRA (1/2)
ZI rehabilitated
ZO non            Exten    Pilo       Comments
rehabilitated     sion      t
I- WATER SERVICE
The great contribution of rehabilitation lies in the return to
Satisfaction                          56%            100       100      demand-driven irrigation (water rotation within an irrigation
Safisfaction        56%            100       100   ~~~~~~~~block). As s matter of fact, the continiuous presence of water at the
of water demand                                      %         %        hydrant has allowed the farmers to reach an agreement among
themselves to adapt water rotation on the basis of seasons and
crops in place.
Consequences of water                                                   This is due to water rotation by sector and to a decrease in
network degradation                                  ~~~~~~~~~~pressure caused by water leaks and use of additional canalizations
network degradation                                                     and sprinklers (after destruction of flow-limiting devices).
*       Decrease in
number of irrigations                 61%
*        Reduced water                70%
flow
Positive impact                                                         The positive impact of rehabilitation on the improvement of the
water service is strongly felt at all levels :return to demand-driven
of rehabilitation on                                90%        100      irrigation, homogeneous water pressure, volume consumed/billed,
satisfaction of water                                          %        observance of irrigation scheduling and reduced sources of
needs                                                                   conflict among farmers.
Assurance of minimum                                                    Rehabilitation has completely secured the water service.
irrigations for
servicing installed
crops                                 28%           90%    100
*       Always and often             61%            10%    %
*       Rarely and
never
Delays observed in                                                      Replacement of engines and other equipment in the pumping
water delivery                        89%           20%       24%       station has also contributed to further secure the water service.
compared with
projected schedule
in the last 12 months
II- BILLING
Reduced water bills                                                     As a matter offact, water metering at the irrigation block level has
developed  a sense of collective  responsibility, ethics and
after rehabilitation                                20%       29%      discipline. Water losses and excessive irrigation are collectively
controlled, as the price is bome by all farmers in the sector.
Farmers admitting                                                      The water flow metering system has not changed in the extension
Billed water volume                   0%            50%       71%      zone. Farmers' satisfaction is reflected in a general opinion on
Billed water volume  0%                              ~~~~~~~~water service improvement. (Losses have been reduced and water
pressure has been adjusted)
- 46 -



III- EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE
Farmers consulted                                                    The percentage of 24 to 30%0 of farmers, who say they have been
on rehabilitation                                 30%       24%      consulted on rehabilitation, may be considered as satisfactory.
Water losses at the                                                  Rehabilitation has eliminated most water losses. However,
level                                                                on-surface canalizations    are still exposed to  frequent
ofvel rrigation network              6%           80%       88%      degradation, which represents a serious source of water leakage.
of irrigation network                6%           80%       88%
*       No or little loss           94%           20%       12%
*       Enough or Much
Protection of                                                        Outside pumping stations and the canal feeding them, and which
are protected by the ORMVA, no protection of equipment has
irrigation                                                           been noted.
infrastructure
Acts of vandalism                                                    New  hydrants are installed in tamper-proof schemes, which
., Widespread orv 43%                 40%        0%      eliminated vandalism. Installing additional canalizations and
*   Widespread or          43/%          4,0%      ,0       sprinklers has become impossible due to replacement of
frequent                             57%           60%       100      flow-limiting devices, which reduced thefts.
*       Rare                                                 %
- 47 -



3. SUMMARY RESULTS OF FARMER SURVEY INZEMAMRA (2/2)
ZI Rehabilitated
ZO non             Exte      Pilot    Comments
rehabilitate       nsio
d                  n.
IV- ON-FARM
IRRIGATION
On-farm  water losses                   79%            10%        18%      For farmers, on-farm water losses include water leaks in
on-surface canalizations
Acquisition of on-farm                                                     No investment other than replacement of sprinkler
equipment in                                                               irigation equipment.
the last 5 years
V- CROPS PATTERN                                                           The cropping intensity rate is higher in the rehabilitated
zone.
AND YIELDS                                                                 The portion dedicated to cereals is smaller in the
*       Cropping intensity              129.6          135.       134.    rehabilitated zone to the benefit of summer crops.
rate (°/O)                                               3          6
*       %  cereals                     55.9%
40%    45.5
- 48 -



VI- CONCLUSION
Benefits of rehabilitation
The positive impact of rehabilitation is well perceived by farmers in Zemamra. The most significant
effects are:
- return to demand-driven irrigation,
- minimizing water losses noted in the former situation,
- water service secured by reducing the frequency of breakdowns,
- limited acts of vandalism and conflicts among farmers and emergence of a sense of cooperation
among farmers supplied by the same hydrant.
- Equipment of hydrants with meters in the pilot zone has encouragedfarmers to avoid water wastage.
Farmers' requests
The main requests of surveyed farmers are:
- bury on-surface canalizations and replace them by PVC water pipes, this operation has already been
started by some farmers on their own resources,
- expand installation of meters to the rest of sector Zl,
- change current billing system (lump sum payment based on surface, whether the land is cultivated or
left fallow( Except if farmer undertakes to commit himself in writing and in time to letting his entire farm lie fallow.)
- attribute irrigator codes to inheritors, which will help resolve problems of development and waterfee
collection,
- install individual-based meters, which will foster water management efficiency and water fee
collection,
- review water bill structure so as to make it more transparent.
- 49 -



4. SUMMARY1RESULTS OF FARMER SURVEYINDRAA (1/2)
Questions                 Taguersifte          Bouzidia                                Comments
Non            rehabilitated
rehabilitated
1- WATER SERVICE
The number of water releases from the dam is fixed in September in the
Satisfaction                          0%                100%           presence of AUEA. Water demand satisfaction is therefore judged
Satisfaction        0%                100%          ~~~~~~~based on the number of water releases scheduled and executed,
of water demand                                                        particularly with respect to effective diversion of the water allocated to
each seguia.
Consequences
of degradation in                                                      Due to destruction of the weir by floods, farmers miss I to 2 releases
the diversion weir                                                     per year. Water flow effectively diverted by the weir of Taguersifte is
? Decrease in number                 91%                               estimated by farmers between 25 and 35% of their water rights (315
of irrigations                                                         ls).
? Reduced waterflow                  100%
? Reduced yields                     100%
Positive impact                                                        All farmers supplied by the seguia of Bouzidia have noticed an increase
of rehabflitation on             4 irrigations      6 irrigations      in number of irrigations provided to 2 irrigations per year.
number of irrigations
Assurance of minimum                                                   The positive impact of the rehabilitation of the BOUZIDIA s6guia is
irgtosfor                                                       well perceived by all farmers questioned.
irrigations for                                                        wellPositive answers of 5 5% of Taguersifte farmers are accounted for by
servicing installed                                                    the fact that farmers make a clear distinction between the respect by
crops                                 55%               100%           ORMVA of planned releases and entirely or partly missed irrigations
* Always and often                   45%                 0%            (flow) due to the state of the weir. This reflects the positive state of
mind among the farmers in this area who consider that the works
* Rarely and never                                                     canied out on the paln-grove as their works and feel they are
accountable for keeping them in good condition.
III- EQUIPMENT
MAINTENANCE
AND AUEA
MEMBERSHIP
Farmers consulted                                                      All farmers surveyed have recognized having been consulted on
on rehabilitation                                                      rehabilitation through their association.
Water loss at level                                                    Losses mentioned by farmers are losses observed at diversion weir
of irrigation network                                                  level. Renovation of the weir of Bouzidia has given full satisfaction to
of irrigation network                               ~~~~~~~~~farmners.
* No or little                        0%                100%
* Enough or much                     100%                0%
Participation in                                                       All farmers have taken part in collective maintenance works, either
network maintenance                                                    directly or through financial contribution. The difference between
network maintenance                                 ~~~~~~~~~rehabilitated Bouzidia and non rehabilitated Taguersifle lies in the
works last year                                                        nature of the works executed. Taguersifte farmers are undertaking
works as a result of the destruction of the weir due to river floods. By
contrast, Bouzidia farmers are undertaking, within the framework of
their AUEA, ditch cleaning works of the irrigation network to take
advantage of the water diverted by the new weir.
- 50 -



Protection of irrigation                                          Apart from manipulaion of the gate at diversion weir level carned out
infrastructure                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~by ORMVA workers, protection of infr-astructure is not a problem here,
infrastructure                                                    due to the traditional nature of the network, social organization and
state of nind reigning over this zone.
Acts of vandalism                                                 No acts of vandalism to rnention, farmers are well organized within
their association which is founded on respect of rights and water
rotation which were existing prior to its creation.
- 51 -



SUMMARY RESULTS OF FARMER SURVEYINDRAA (2/2)
Questions              Taguersifte         Bouzidia                                   Comments
Non           rehabilitated
rehabilitated
IV- ON-FARM
IRRIGATION
Irrigation systems                                               Irrigation practiced in the two palm-groves rests on old flood irrigation
techniques, with however a smaller basin and a water height lower than in
adopted and                                                      flood irrigation systems. In this respect, the question of on-farm water loss
on-farm  water losses                                            does not represent a problem to farmers.
Acquisition                                                      Works are aimed at correcting land leveling in some places by means of a
of on-farm                       36%               70%           sap. Farmers who can afford it are in the process of investing in boring
wells and in the acquisition of pumping motor units to secure some
equipment in the                                                 additional irrigations for highly water-demanding crops.
last 5 years
V- CROPS
PATTERN                                                          The impact of rehabilitation on yields achieved is also quite significant.
AND YIELDS
*  Cropping intensity           62.3%             74.5%
rate %
-  52 -



VI- CONCLUSION
Impact of the project
The impact of creating the association and building the weir under the LSII-2 project is highly positive
- two irrigations are gained on average per year, while they were previously missed due to destruction of the
weir byflood waters.
- Significant increase in diverted waterflow.
- Working days and equipment which were devoted to repeated repairs of the weir are now employed to improve
the irrigation network.
This project is a very good example of a significant partnership between ORMVA and farmers organized within
AUEA. Such cooperation may be observed in:
- the irrigated area of Bouzidia itself through the expansion of the cooperative movement to ditch cleaning
works in the seguias,
- and the irrigated area of Taguersifte, where farmers, after much hesitation, have set up an AUEA.
Requests by farmers
Bouzidia : Fanners are requesting, in the first instance, concrete lining of the main seguia (part of which is in
earth) and installation of outlets to discharge water excess toward the river. This operation, if it were to be
achieved, would save farmers thousands of working days (which they would otherwise invest elsewhere). It
should be noted that waters discharged by the outlets could be recovered by other earthen seguias located
downstream of the irrigated area.
Taguersifte : The main and prime concern of the farmers is the construction of a sound and modem diversion
weir like the one in Bouzidia.
Annex 8.2:
BENEFICIARY SURVEY
UNIT2: WATER USER ASSOCIATIONS (WUA)
This survey concerned 17 WUA from 3 ORMVAs : Haouz (4), Souss-Massa (7) and Gharb (6). These
ORMVAs were chosen on the basis of the conclusions of the seminar on Participatory Management of
Irrigation held in December 1999, which identified 3 categories of ORMVAs: Haouz, Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet where WUA are operating relatively well ; Souss-Massa, Tadla and Loukkos where efforts to
revitalize WUA have been observed and Moulouya, Doukkala and Gharb where several WUA are not
functioning. From  17 WUA surveyed, 12 have benefited from LSII2 activities (full rehabilitation: 2,
partial rehabilitation : 2, rehabilitation of farm hydrants: 7, construction of office facility :1).
- 53 -



Table 1: Characteristics of WUA surveyed:
WUA            Date of     Number    Surface       Area of    Membership    Annual         LS112
creation      of          ha       operation    subscription    member    Activities
members                             dues in DH      dues
in DH
Haouz
Sidi Hadi      1977 (1)    90          710        Canal lIre   12.5/ha       5-12/ha     -
Sultania      1994        21           6200(2)    Seguia                                 part. rehab
Fekrounia     1979 (1)    310          1140       Canal lIre    10/ha        20/ha       office
Oasis HIl     1997        638          1042       Canal lire   20/mem.       5/ha
Souss-Massa
Errahma        1996       71           349        Pipes                      200/mem.  hydrants
Massira        1997       74           370        Illre                                  hydrants
Arrachad       1998       68           290                     NA            ND
Sidi Younes    2000       44           674            .                                  hydrants
Ifellahen     2000        44           361                     -             250/mem.   hydrants
Ayour         2000        55           398            .                      -           hydrants
Issoui        2000        67           681                    20/mem.        -           hydrants
Gharb
Bouayadia     1998        172          1040       Pipes Illre   -            -           hydrants
Sidi Kamel    1997        96           376        sector       -             -           part. rehab
Amana          1999       118          590        Canal llre    -            -
Ezzohour      1997        84           960        Pipe Illre    -            -
Essalmia      1996        68           420        Canal llre    -            -           int. rehab
Ezzahraouia   1996        220          580        Canal llre    -            -           int. Rehab
(1) formerly ASAP (Association Syndicale Agricole Privilegiee) turned into WUA
(2) existence of large state-owned farns
The main conclusion that can be drawn from this table is that member subscription dues and
permanent annual dues have not been fLxed by a large number of WUA.
- 54 -



Table 2: Operation of WUA/Opinions on water service and LSII2
WUA         General   Council   Current   Opinion    LSII2         Opinion on LSII2 impact
assembl  meetings  treasury   on water   Activitie
y                  in DH     service      s
meetings
Haouz
Sidi Hadi    1/year    1/month   8000       S
Sultania    2/year    1/month   0           S         part.reha   NA
Fekrounia   1-2/year   1/month   0          S         b          NA
Oasis HII   1/year    1/year     6300       S         office     -
Souss-Mass
a
Errahma     1/year    1/week    NA          U                    water saving
Massira     0         0          1400      U          hydrants  good pressure, less leakage
Arrachad    0         0          NA         U         hydrants   -
Sidi        0         0          0          S                    The 4 WUA of Massa are
Younes      0         0          NA         U         hydrants  satisfied with rehabilitation
Ifellahen   0         0          0          U         hydrants   of hydrants but request
Ayour       0         0          1340       S         hydrants  burial of pipes
Issoui                                                hydrants
Gharb       1 time    1 time     0          PS                   Satisfied, problem of pipes
Bouayadia  1/year    1/year      0          HS                   Improvement of service
Sidi        0         1/month   3354        S         hydrants   -
Kamel       0          1/year    0          HS        part.reha   -
Amana       0         0          0          HU        b          These 2 WUA of Beht say
Ezzohour    0         0          0          HU                   rehabilitation  was  badly
Essalmia                                                         executed
Ezzahraou                                             int.
ia                                                    rehab
int.
rehab
NA= Not Available
HS= Highly Satisfied, S= Satisfied, PS= Partially Satisfied, U= Unsatisfied, HU= Highly Unsatisfied.
The main conclusions of this table are:
*     Most WUA in Souss-Massa and Gharb are not functioning
WUA financial means are poor and often lacking
*     All WUA of Haouz are satisfied with the water service, 5 WUA out of 7 are unsatisfied in
Souss-Massa and 2 WUA out of 6 are highly unsatisfied in Gharb.
*      Activities carried out under the project are generally judged satisfactory by WUA except in
the case of full rehabilitation of Beht which the concerned WUA consider to have been badly
executed.
- 55 -



Table 3: Operation and Maintenance activities carried out by WUA surveyed
(in number of WUA)
ACTIVITIES                                                HAOUZ   SOUSS   GHARB
-MASS
A
OPERATION:
Consultations at preparation of irrigation programs       3           0         1
Internal water distribution                               3           1         1
Validation of consumption statements and monitoring       3           0         1
Awareness-raising to induce members to pay their water fees  0        0         1
Water fee recovery                                         I          0         0
Protection of the network                                 4           0         0
Reporting of violations to ORMVA                          3           0         0
Consultations on handling of requests                     3           0         0
MAINTENANCE
Consultations for establishment of programs               3          0          1
Cleaning of main and branch canals                        2           0         2
Cleaning of main collectors                               0           0         1
Maintenance of sprinkler equipment and hydrant fittings   -           1         1
Maintenance of feeder roads                               0           0         1
Maintenance of land leveling                              0           0         1
The main conclusion of this table is that, outside 3 WUA of the Tessaout Amont area in the ORMVA
of Haouz which have community-based organizational traditions, the other WUA are very little
involved in operation and maintenance activities.
- 56 -



Annex 8.3
PROJECT BENEFICIARY SURVEY - UNIT 3: ORMVA
The objective of this survey is to seek the advice of ORMVA and AGR officials, as beneficiaries, on the
achievements of the project within the framework of the "ORMVA Strengthening and Policy Reforms"
component. It was intended for 6 officials by ORMVA and 4 officials from AGR, that is 58 people of
whom 46 have supplied answers. Excerpts of the most representative and/or relevant answers obtained on
each activity are presented below.
(HZ) = Haouz ; (DK) = Doukkala; (TD) = Tadla ; (LK) = Loukkos ; (MY) = Moulouya ; (GH) = Gharb;
(SM) = Souss-Massa ; (TF) = Tafilalet; (OZ) = Ouarzazate
1. ORMVA StrengtheningActivities:
>'    Provision of equipment: vehicles, computer hardware, software, maintenance equipment, etc...
*     Insufficient vehicles, computer system improved but management needs to be reviewed (HZ)
The water service is not the sole beneficiary (GH)
-      Vehicles: very insufficient, computer equipment increased (DK)
-     Increase of computer equipment (TD)
-     Positive impact on ORMVA performances, sustainability uncertain (LK)
-     No vehicles, acquisition of significant quantities of computer equipment (MY)
*     .Sufficient computer equipment (TF)
*     LSII2 contribution was highly satisfactory but means are still insufficient compared with needs
(OZ).
>     Construction of buildings:
Very few achievements have been made under this activity.
>     Technical assistance and studies:
V     System O&M studies and implementation of their recommendations:
*     Interesting tools but there is a lack of means for implementation (HZ)
*      TOR imprecise, phase 3 was stopped, all management tools provided were not operational (GH)
*     Study identified interesting actions, but very late, financing problem (DK)
*     Heavy design, problems with Consultant. Useful results are in the process of implementation
(LK)
*     System operation study cancelled and GMAO study has given good results (MY)
*     Despite delays, highly valuable contribution, implementation started (OZ)
*     Studies of this kind to be avoided, poor involvement of ORMVA staff (AGR).
/     Studies and implementation of Management Information Systems (MIS):
*.    organization of ORMVAs
*     Significant improvement in human resources management, procedures and control of assets.
Increased accountability on the field but farmers have several interlocutors (GH)
*     Strengthening of responsibilities on the field but everybody has become a chief. The organization
chart encourages compartmentalization. Motivation and post-auditing have been developed (DK)
- 57 -



*     Has generated a new corporate culture, upgraded accountability, increased decentralization,
better monitoring and control (TD)
*     A heavy structure with respect to operation, dilution of responsibilities, inconsistencies,
dispersion of staff on the field, absence of structures for important functions and multiplication of certain
similar unaccountedfor entities (LK)
*:    Operational modern accounting system (comptabilitW type entreprise)
*     Processing of results which are not employed in daily management on-site and in negotiations
with responsible ministries should be improved (DK)
*     Has contributed to control of expenditures, development of management indicators and good
monitoring of assets. Should be developed so as to be at the disposal of all potential users (TD)
*     Improved utilization byfunctional staff, to be developed among operational services (LK)
*      Optimal use contingent on implementation of organization chart projected by MIS study (MY)
*     Has permitted a clear improvement of management and increased participation and
accountability of staff: However, non application of new organization chart poses problems as to its
optimal use (OZ)
*     Has permitted control of expenditures in different activities, which facilitated budget negotiation
and scheduling of actions (SM)
*,    Multi-year internal commitments Contracts (CEPI):
*     Have generated a deep culture change (TD)
*     Impact limited by constraints linked to staff motivation and by lack of means. The CEPI concept
remains unclear, institutional constraints (LK)
Contracts not enforced but their spirit is well understood (OZ)
*     Established but not enforced due to budget constraints (SM)
a     A very interesting educational exercise but cannot be implemented under the current
budget-making process (AGR).
>     Training of ORMVA staff:
*     Adequate but insufficient programs, no training on maintenance (HZ)
*     Program highly appreciated by beneficiaries. Shortcomings in WUA training (DK)
*     Important and beneficial program (TD)
*     Positive results and assured impact (LK)
*     Has enabled staff to upgrade their knowledge in maintenance ofpumping stations (OZ)
>     Strengthening of SAGI (Service for Large-Scale Irrigation/AGR)
*     Support extended in terms of expertise and project management and monitoring tools, which
helped SAGI to carry out its mission in good conditions.
2. Institutional Reforms:
>     Increase of irrigation water charges with the objective of recovering O&M costs and a
reasonable portion of depreciation costs:
All persons surveyed are convinced of the need to adjust tariffs so as to foster water savings and cover
O&M costs. Many deplore that this increase does not benefit the water service first
- .8



(4)-developing a master plan for the rehabilitation of irrigation systems;
(5)-improving ORMVA debt collection;
(6)-extending Management Improvement Plans ("contrats-programmes") to all ORMVAs;
(7)-reviewing the institutional framework of the large-scale irrigation sub-sector;
(8)-implementing Environment Monitoring Action Plans.
Apart from reviewing the tariff system and ORMVA debt collection, the substance and scope of the other
measures were not clearly specified at project preparation. However, they were translated into
commitments according to implementation schedules which turned out to be impracticable as their
scheduling was not appropriate. The results of the different studies which were planned under the project
should in fact serve as a basis for the establishment and implementation of most of these measures.
COMMITMENT           DEADLINES                       PREREQUISITES
See 3.a
(1)            31/12/1995       -Water cost study
-Operation and maintenance studies
(2)            30/06/1994      -Maintenance studies
(3)             31/03/1994      -Maintenance studies-Operation study
(4)            30/06/1995       -Tariff, operation  and  maintenance  studies  and
achievement of measure (7)
(5)          31-3 Year (n+l)   -MIS study (implementation of the accounting system).
Objective rates were determined on the basis of the rates
registered at project appraisal and were calculated
without taking account of the principle of independence
of the years
(6)            31/12/1995      -Development of negotiation capacity and accountability
of ORMVAs
-Setting up of the new organization and management
tools
-Implementation of an arbitration and evaluation body
(7)            30/06/1996      -Develop a strategic vision on the future and missions of
ORMVAs, which depends on the availability of the
findings of the studies (Operation, maintenance, tariff
system, MIS...)
The findings of the studies which were to be used as a basis for fine-tuning most of the action plan required
considerable time for their launching due to the procedures set by the loan agreement and the need to
- 59 -



SE    Signing of management improvement plans between Government and the ORMVAs to help
improve the performance of ORMVAs and facilitate their supervision by Government
*     An institutional study was expected to be launchedfollowing technical studies but has not been
carried out, which affected project consistency (GH)
*     Must be consolidated by negotiations of clear objectives and necessary means to give them their
true signification in future (TD)
*     Attempts were made, but credibility remains limited due to insufficient basis. Clarification of
roles and relationships with different partners needed: Government, farmers, professionals, before
engaging in credible contracts (LK)
*     Clarification of objectives of agricultural and rural development would help implement
management improvement plans (MY)
*     Necessary conditions for such an exercise are not yet available (AGR)
>     Establishment of water delivery contracts between the ORMVAs and users with the objective of
clarifying the responsibility of both parties
*      WUA shouldfirst be given more impetus (GH)
*      Users reluctant to take over system operation/maintenance activities (DK)
*     Difficulties at first, but improvement achievedfollowing awareness-raising (1982 contracts
signed), commitment of users to settle their bills not respected (LK)
*     350 contracts signed in Massa (SM)
3. General Comments:
*     Despite constraining procedures and prerequisites, LSII2 has generated positive dynamics within
the ORMVAs (DK)
:     LSII2 has helped resolve several problems in LSI areas but efforts are yet needed at institutional
level (TD)
LSII2 has contributed to improvement of water service quality and to implementation of modern
management tools which helped promote a new culture among ORMVA staff and enhance their
management performances. Nevertheless, upgrading and sustainability of LSII2 benefits remain
contingent on certain institutional actions, namely clarification the role of ORMVAs vis-a-vis its
environment (LK)
*     In general, LSII2 has achieved its objectives, particularly in areas of cost control, increased
involvement of water users and computerization of O&M activities (TF)
*     LSII2 has induced significant dynamics within ORMVAs and strengthened the participatory
approach, but actions of support to WUA should be planned (OZ)
*      Continuation of efforts furnished under LSII2 aimed at operational and management capacity
building of ORMVAs and consolidating institutional reforms is crucialfor the sustainability of the
large-scale irrigation sub-sector (AGR).
- 60 -



ANNEX 9
STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP RESULTS
The workshop took place on June 29, 2001 in Rabat. It was chaired by the General Secretary of
MADREF and the following persons attended: the president of the General Council of
Agriculture, the directors of the Administration of Rural Engineering (AGR) and their key staff,
the directors of the nine ORMVAs and their key staff, the representative of the other directorates
of MADREF, the representative of Ministry of Finance, as well as the representative of KfW and
AFD. The Bank was represented by D. Koehn (MNSRE Director), S. Darghouth (Sector
manager, MNSRE) and H. Lamrani (Task team leader of LSI12 project).
After introducing speeches by the General Secretary of MADREF and the Director of MNSRE,
the TTL of the project (Bank) and the chief of SAGI (AGR) made two presentations on the
project assessment respectively by the Bank and the Borrower. Interesting discussions followed
these presentations, the findings of which are summarized below:
-  Achievements under the project were important, especially in rehabilitation of irrigation
systems and improvement of ORMVAs' management. However, the institutional reforms
defined in the project were not clear and didn't address the main issue of the juridical
framework of ORMVAs.
*  The vicious circle "lack of financial resources for the water service- under maintenance-
rehabilitation" should be broken. Water revenues should be allocated to the water service.
* The water service in ORMVAs is a commercial activity and should be autonomous at the
administrative and financial levels. Several forms of autonomy are possible and should be
compared. The solution "management contract with the private sector" should be analyzed as
well.
*  The agricultural services to support and educate the farmers are very important in order to
improve their capacity of payment and their use of irrigation water.
*  Urgent measures should be taken to improve the water fees collection rates by ORMVAs.
*  The role of WUAs in large scale irrigation areas should be better defined in the framework
of the upcoming discussions on the institutional reform of ORMVAs.
In conclusion, the General Secretary of MADREF confirmed the need to undertake a sound
discussion on institutional reforms necessary in the large scale irrigation sector and recommended
to urgently set up a workgroup with the objective to "define the framework of the LSI of the 21th
century".
- 61 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower Assessment
(This is the translation from French of the document sent to the Bank on June 13th,2001 by the letter nO
3788/DDGI/DGRHA/SAGI signed by MrA. Gueddari)
PREAMBLE
Since the mid-eighties, public authorities have engaged in an important program aimed at improving the
performance of the large-scale irrigation sub-sector. This program, which seeks to secure the
cost-effectiveness of the heavy investments extended to irrigation schemes and to rationalise the
management of large-scale irrigation areas, was implemented through three projects consisting of
institutional adjustment measures in addition to physical investments (LSII-1, 1987-93; LSII-2, 1993-2001
and IAAS (Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project, 1993-2002).
While LSII-1 placed emphasis on irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation and laid down the foundations for
improving the management of ORMVAs, LSII-2 focused efforts on strengthening equipment upgrading
activities and pursuing institutional reforms and initiating on-farm water-saving actions.
According to all parties involved, LSII-2 project is ambitious in terms of the objectives assigned to it and of
its expected outcomes, and complex in view of its interrelated objectives, its components and multiple
stakeholders.
Due to this complexity, consultations with the Bank throughout project implementation have been used as
an opportunity to review the project in terms of the objectives to be achieved and measures to be
implemented with a view to adjusting and adapting the project activities to its changing context.
The completion report prepared by the Bank does not seem to have taken due account of the adaptations
and redirections.which were made on the design and implementation of the project. As a matter of fact,
discussions and decisions on the institutional aspects of the project have not been sufficiently highlighted in
the said report and have not been considered as a reference for the assessment of the results (tariff rating,
Management Improvement Plans (MIP), institutional study, development of the Participatory Irrigation
management (PIM)...).
On the basis of these considerations and other available elements on the assessment of the project results,
we think that significant results and achievements were obtained under this project in terms of
accomplishments, approaches,, tools, procedures and measures. LSII-2 helped lay down the base for the
gradual and sustainable improvement of large-scale irrigation. These improvements should henceforth look
toward the consolidation of the achievements and lessons learned from project implementation.
Without claiming to undertake an evaluation of the project and of its impacts, which would obviously
require in-depth investigations on the results achieved, this memo will seek, as requested by the World
Bank in its fax of May 8, 2001, to present an assessment from the Borrower's point of view on: i)-the
design and implementation of the project; ii)-the Borrower's performance during project implementation,
and iii)-the Bank's and co-financiers' performance in terms of support to the project.
- 62 -



I/DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
1- Project Design and Objectives
Although LSII-2 objectives were clear and met the need to upgrade the large-scale irrigation sub-sector, the
underlying actions and measures suffered from certain shortcomings in their design and scheduling. As a matter of
fact, the substance and scope of most measures planned under the project have not been clarified during project
preparation:
- Regarding the establishment of a contractual relationship between the ORMVAs and their supervising
authorities, the project had planned to extend such relationship to all ORMVAs as from 1996 without
however assessing the previous experience conducted in the ORMVAs of Tadla and Doukkala under
LSII- 1, nor ensuring that the prerequisites of such a measure are satisfied (implementation of Management
and Information Systems (MIS), definition of strategic visions and associated operational plans by
ORMVAs).
- Review of the institutional framework is considered by the project as a strong measure for the
improvement of the large-scale irrigation sub-sector performances. Yet, at project preparation, fundamental
options and choices which should have governed those reforms have neither been examined nor determined.
In addition, improvement of the large-scale irrigation performance as a whole and the achievement of
certain basic objectives of the project could not be reached without acting on the performance of the
irrigation systems and of the ORMVAs as well as the performance of farm units.
Although IAAS project was designed as a complementary component of LSII-2 with respect to agricultural
development aspects, its implementation independently of LSII-2 inhibited the synergic effect that should
exist between the actions planned under these two projects. Indeed, if on-farm water resources are not
harnessed in an appropriate way, it would be useless to seek a sustainable improvement of the financial
balance of the water service or expect the implication of water users in the management of irrigation
schemes.
It is therefore vital for future action in this field to incorporate the improvement of on-farm operations
(improving water use and farmers' income) in the process of upgrading the whole sub-sector.
2-Project achievements and outcomes
a-Upgrading irrigation systems efficiency
Integrated rehabilitation undertaken in the sectors of Triffa, Beht, Faregh and Beni-Amir on nearly 37,000
ha, in addition to re-establishing the water service and ensuring its sustainability, led to the improvement of
the water service quality and reduction in water losses in the rehabilitated schemes. According to available
data, efficiency gains achieved reached 10 to 20%.
Rehabilitation of pumping equipment (74 pumping stations renovated) led to a substantial decrease in
pumping energy costs which dropped from 0.33 DH/m3 in 1995 to 0.19 DH/m3 in 2000, in addition to
reducing the incidence of breakdowns and interruptions in the water service.
In sprinkler-irrigated areas, where rehabilitation of farm hydrants was carried out (2,962 hydrants covering
nearly 37,200 ha), demand-driven water service was re-established in the areas which were previously
badly serviced. Likewise, water losses due to breakdowns in the farm hydrants (lack of control and
- 63 -



coordinate the positions of all stakeholders on their terms of reference and the choice of consultants.
b)-Progress of achievement
(1)-Review of tariff system: study achieved and adjustment plan implemented (see 1.1 .a)
(2)-Promotion of the role of the private sector in the maintenance of irrigation systems:
In order to inmprove the operational efficiency of ORMVAs and optimize their operating costs, the project
provided that each ORMVA should develop an action plan to promote the role of the private sector in
system maintenance activities.
While the project did not determine objective levels for the participation of the private sector in
maintenance, the rate of private sector participation increased by 10% in the course of the first three years
of the project, moving from 33% to 43% and stagnated on average at around 32% in the following years
(rates were calculated taking account of direct costs and indirect costs). Private sector participation rate
remains contingent on budgets allocated to maintenance and on the nature of the works carried out.
(3)-Development of an action plan for the promotion of Water Users Associations;
Among the measures designed to support actions for the improvement of water service efficiency, the
project had originally provided for the creation of water users associations (400 WUAs) in order to
promote the dissemination of water-saving irrigation practices and farmers' participation in system
operation and maintenance activities. Implementation of this measure came up against two major
difficulties : canceling of the support actions planned under the project for the creation of WtUAs and
the lack of visibility, at project design, as to the role to be assigned to the WUAs in the area of
Participatory Irrigation Management - PIM (at what level of participation should WUAs be involved ?,
what tasks should be entrusted to WUAs ? and what task-sharing mechanisms ?, etc.).
To overcome these difficulties, an in-depth reflection extended to different project partners was
conducted with a view to developing a shared vision, a strategy and an operational action plan for
implementing PIM. This reflection materialized in the designing of an implementation strategy based on
a selective, gradual, environment-adapted, contractual and enabling approach. This strategy led to
operational action plans designed to share tasks between ORMVAs and WUAs in accordance with the
evolution of the technical and management capabilities of these associations. Thus, and for each
ORMVA, the action plan defined the establishment map of WUAs to be created, the objectives and
scheduling for task-sharing as well as support measures in the area of training and monitoring.
According to these action plans, WVUAs were to be involved in the first phase (between 3 and 4 years) in
irrigation planning, in the establishment of maintenance and rehabilitation programs and in the
dissemination of irrigation practices. In the second phase, these associations were to take over, within a
negotiated and contractual framework, certain operation and maintenance tasks.
So far, 446 WUAs have been created in large-scale irrigation areas, covering a surface of about
345,000 hectares including over 150,000 users.
In the areas of Tafilalet, Ouarzazate and Haouz, WUAs take an active part in the execution of
management tasks (cleaning up of tertiary and secondary canals, guard service, water distribution inside
tertiary schemes, intemal conflict resolution, etc). As illustration, participation of Ouarzazate WUAs in
system maintenance works is estimated at 128,126 workdays, which represents an economy of about
5,000,000 Dirhams for the Government, their participation in water distribution is estimated at 260,000
DH, which amounts to the wages of 95 water bailiffs. In the ORMVA of Tafilalet, participation of
WUAs in the Tafilalet plain is estimated at 9,240 workdays, which represents 55% of the amount
needed for the maintenance of the traditional network and 100% for the modem network.
- 64 -



metering, water leaks) were considerably reduced (in the Loukkos, water savings recorded following the
rehabilitation of farm hydrants reached about 20%).
A more specific evaluation of the results obtained from rehabilitation works carried out would have been
possible if appropriate metering systems had been set up on the irrigation schemes. As the project had not
provided for sufficient financial resources for setting up water metering systems, any future infrastructure
rehabilitation work should grant special attention to this aspect in accordance with the conclusions of the
operating studies.
b-Preserving public investments in large-scale irrigation through appropriate maintenance
Appropriate maintenance is the sole means to preserve equipment and avoid anticipated rehabilitations;
rehabilitation would only take place in the case of equipment which would have gone over their life cycle.
In this perspective, a considerable effort was made during the project life to strengthen maintenance of
equipment. As a matter of fact, actual expenditures on maintenance went up from 87 million DH in 1995,
i.e. about 170 DH/ha, to an average of 124 million DH during the period of 1996-2000, i.e. 220 DH/ha.
This maintenance effort, though it significantly contributed to improving availability of the schemes and
equipment and to water cost control, remains insufficient in view of the needs for adequate maintenance.
Indeed, maintenance levels noted these last few years hardly covered 50% of standards.
c-Reduction of budget transfer for operation and maintenance: financial viability of the water service
and improvement of ORMVAs' operation and management capabilities
c.l)-Financial viability of the water service
Financial viability of the water service has always been a major challenge for ORMVAs and an objective
for LSII-2. To enable ORMVAs to secure stable intemal earnings so as to permit appropriate operation
and maintenance of irrigation networks, and hence provide quality water service, LSII-2 set as an objective
to cover O&M costs and a reasonable portion of depreciation costs through water service earnings.
The main measures projected to materialize this objective are the following:
-readjustment of water tariffs;
-improvement of water fees recovery;
-control over water service charges.
The major results and outcomes achieved under LSII-2 which contributed to improving the financial
viability of the water service lie in:
*      conducting an in-depth reflection over water tariffs, which helped develop visibility in terms of
actual water service costs, farmers' payment capacity, possibilities of farm adjustment and cost reduction,
and also facilitated the development of decision-making elements for potential effective tariff adjustments
(level and pace of increases) and support measures for tariff reforms.
A tariff adjustment plan, spreading over 6 years and designed to cover water service recurrent
charges, was thus established and implemented.
- 65 -



*      water tariff adjustment efforts undertaken so far helped, in terms of tariffs, balance recurrent
charges on over 240,000 ha which are to be added to nearly 300,000 ha which were in a balanced situation
before implementation of the tariff readjustment plan. Thus, almost 89% of equipped large-scale irrigation
surfaces are at present balanced with respect to tariffs.
With respect to the level of financial balance of the water service, tariff adjustments, thus implemented,
helped improve water billings to an amount of nearly 165 million DH for the last three years as shown
below:
Additional water billings generated
by tanff adjstm..ts (O)
Billings in million DH
YEAR           Water Volume            Without              With
billed (Mm3)         adjustment         adjustment         Additional
1996/97                        2368                 538                538                 0
1997/98                        2407                 534                568                34
1998/99                        2622                 585                643                58
1999/00                        2196                 542                609                67
Total                         165
(*) ORMVAs of Tafilalet and Ouarzazate not included
Efforts made to adjust water tariffs led to a structurally positive balance of the water service operating
account excluding depreciation costs as from 1996/1997, despite an increase in water service costs.
Likewise, total water eamings increased, despite a drop in water charges collection rates. This helped secure water
earnings at an average amount of about 540 Million DH over the last 3 years, and hence limit budget transfers to
about 50 Million DH per annum to the benefit of the water service, although water service costs increased by more
than 26% between 1995 and 2000.
Amounts In millons            1994    1995    199/    1997/    1998/99    1999/00
91       98
Water service charges (ED) including indirect costs  462  467    514      532         646        584
Water service charges (ID) including indirect costs    721       824      835       1 076       1 019
Water service revenues (water turnover)        409     434       554      588         655        609
Water service operating account balance (ED)   -53     -33       40        56          9          25
Water service balance (ID)                            -287      -270     -247        -421       -410
Water revenues/Water costs ED %               89%    93%       108%      111%       101%       104%
Water revenues/Water costs ID%                        60%       67%       700/o      61%        600/o
Current year water earnings                    348    354       302       311        413        361
Water earnings arrears                          75      61      178       179        181        171
Total water earnings                           423    415       480       490        594         532
Water service budget trarsfers                 39       52       34        42         52         52
Water earnings/Water costs ED%               91.6%     88.   93.4%    92.1%        92.0%      91.1%
9%
- 66-



Total earnings excluding subsidies             534    491       568       594        671        629
Total operating expenditures                  916    846        910       918       1000        880
Total budget tansfer                          382    355       342       324        329         251
Total eamings/Total expenditures %            58%    58%       62%       65%        67%        71%
ED   Excluding Depreciation
ID = Including Depreciation
This result represents an undeniable achievement in the water service improvement and equipment
preservation process.
Consolidation of these achievements require:
-improving water charges collection rates. To this end, future actions should mainly bear on developing
farms payment capacity.
-strengthening budget allocations to the benefit of water service maintenance and improvement so as to
provide for the preservation of equipment and thus avoid a second cycle of anticipated rehabilitation of
equipment, and ensure that tariff adjustment efforts supported by users are materialized in terms of water
service quality;
-continuing tariff adjustment efforts to ensure the balance of water service recurrent costs;
-continuing water service cost control efforts.
Regarding ORMVAs' debt collection, although collection rates increased in absolute value between 1994
and 2000, they however tended to decline in both overall and outstanding terms (outstanding + arrears).
Objective rates set by the project have not been reached.
Debts (MDH)               Collection (MDH)         Collection rates %
Arrears  Outstanding  Total  Arre-rs  Outstanding  Total  ArreaM  Outstanding  Total  LS112
Objtndves %
1994     170.1     412.9     583.0   75.1       348.1     423    44         84       73      75-92
1995     165.7     430.9    596.0    60.9       354.1     .2    37          82       70      80-93
1996/    323.2     524.1     844.3   178.5      301.5     415    55         58       57      83-95
97       365.6     517.2    882.8   179.4       301.4      .0    49         60        56     85-95
1997/    389.3     633.4       1      181.2     412.6     480    47         65        58     85-95
98       428.3     600.3     022.7   171.3      360.9      .0    40         60        52     85-95
1998/                          1                          490
99                           028.6                         .8
1999/                                                     593
00                                                         .8
532
.2
One of the objective reasons of this decrease during the project lies in the successive droughts which
affected farmers' payment capacity. On the other hand, the objective rates fixed by LSII-2 were determined
on the basis of the collection rates recorded before the start of the project and were calculated without
taking account of the independence of years, a principle presently adopted by the ORMVA accounting
system.
c.2)-Improving operation and management capabilities of ORMVAs
- 67 -



The operation capabilities of ORMVAs were strengthened in the areas of O&M thanks to the studies
conducted under LSII-2 which helped develop several products of technical, organizational and procedural
nature, the implementation of which will help promote the continuous improvement of the water service. In
this respect, the main products relate to:
-the development of computer tools, training procedures and programs for the control of irrigation
campaign planning, water distribution and billing;
-the development of irrigation management systems in order to better rationalize irrigation planning;
-the development of an equipment plan for metering systems at different levels of irrigation systems
together with a set of procedures for operation, control and maintenance of equipment, in order to ensure a
better control over water withdrawals, transfers, distribution and billing;
-the development of a monitoring/evaluation system for irrigation networks performance (a set of
monitoring indicators with computer applications);
-the development of computer-assisted maintenance management systems (organization of the structures
charged with maintenance, computer tools installation, procedures, staff training).
Although these products helped guide choices as to priorities in the allocation of budget resources
designed for strengthening ORMVAs' operation capabilities at LSII-2 implementation (metering
equipment, computerization, training, technical equipment, specific rehabilitation of equipment), and
although some of them have started to be applied, such as GMAO in Moulouya and Loukkos,
computerization of system operation tasks and installation of metering systems, efforts are yet to be
made in view of their implementation.
Regarding improvement of ORMVAs' management capabilities, undeniable efforts were made in this
respect and the main products which were developed in this area are concerned with:
(i) the development of a Management and Information System adjusted to the needs of ORMVAs comprising:
-A management sub-system based on a Management By Objectives (MBO) approach and on management
control which should be provided at all levels of responsibility centers with relevant information for
decision making;
-An accounting and financial information sub-system containing general, cost and forecast accounting
modules;
-A human resources management sub-system which would comprise work organization, career
management and planning, an evaluation and motivation system and training;
-A master computerization plan to support the development of the Management Information System.
(ii) Restructuring of the five ORMVAs has not been subject to an MIS study under LSII- I.
While introduction of MIS was not completed in all its components, namely with respect to forecast
accounting, management control, human resources management and ORMVA restructuring, this
component may however be credited with undeniable achievements, in particular:
-the control of the financial situation of ORMVAs through the establishment of financial statements which
are annually submitted for external auditing. As a matter of fact, ever since 1995, all ORMVAs have had
their accounts audited. In 1995, the accounts of 6 ORMVAs were certified with reservations. In 1999, all
ORMVAs had their accounts certified.
-the production of cost analysis statements since 1996, helped ensure reliability of the costs for different
- 68 -



missions, activities and responsibility centers. However, these statements are not produced on a regular
basis and in accordance with the concerns of different responsibility centers for the purpose of assisting
decision-making.
-the development of skills through (i) implementing an important training program (over 9,000 agents
attended training modules delivered under LSII-2), (ii) effective involvement of ORMVA staff in the
design, development and implementation of MIS and (iii) pooling of experiences in the framework of
institutionalized networks in parallel with LSII-2 (Information Network for Training, Management
Information Network, Computer Infornation Network, steering committees for O&M studies, project
coordination and monitoring committee).
d-On-farm water use efficiency improvement
The "On-farm Water Use Efficiency Improvement Component" was strongly reduced following the
readjustment of Bank Loan 3587-MOR. The initial program was reduced and mainly confined to
rehabilitation of hydrants. The means which were planned for : i)-demonstrations; ii)-encouragement to
farmers (subsidies) and iii)-support to water users associations which are considered as vectors for the
dissemination of on-farm irrigation practices, were eliminated.
The farm hydrant rehabilitation program achieved (2,962 hydrants covering 37,200 ha) helped reestablish
demand-driven water service, reduce water losses due to hydrant breakdowns (lack of regulation and
metering), and reduce water bills for both users as well as energy bills.
All hydrant rehabilitation activities were subject to the creation of water users associations and to the
establishment of contractual relationships with ORMVAs. Users concerned engaged in investments for the
renewal of mobile irrigation equipment.
e-Protection of the environment
The only one measure which was provided for under the project in order to achieve this objective lies in the
establishment of Environment Monitoring Action Plans in the nine large-scale irrigation areas.
All ORMVAs have developed their action plans and established dedicated structures for monitoring the
environmental situation in their field of action.
Periodical reports on the environmental situation in large-scale irrigation areas are established on a regular
basis.
However implementation of priority actions identified by these action plans was not carried out due to lack
of resources (the project had not provided for investment allocations in this field). In future, special
attention should be granted to the protection of natural resources in irrigated areas.
3-Support measures
a)-Reminder
To achieve the objectives of the project, support measures were taken and written down in the legal
documents of Bank Loan 3587-MOR in terms of commitments with implementation schedules. These
measures are the following:
(l)-Reviewing the water tariff system, with a view to increasing tariffs so as to recover operation and
maintenance costs and a reasonable portion of depreciation costs;
(2)-developing an action plan for promoting the role of the private sector in the maintenance of irrigation
systems;
(3)-developing an action plan for the promotion of water users associations;
- 69 -



In the other areas, WUAs take a modest part in the execution of management tasks (guard service of
hydrants in Souss Massa, cleaning up of tertiary canals in Tadla, operation and maintenance of
sprinkler irrigation equipment in Loukkos). On the other hand, these associations are increasingly
involved in irrigation planning, water rotation development, planning and monitoring of maintenance
works as well as in the dissemination of modem irrigation practices. This participation has also
generated tangible results in terms of water savings, reduction of water losses, improvement of water
rotation and agricultural productivity (as illustration in Tadla, participation of WUAs in the
dissemination of water-saving practices contributed to an achievement of water savings amounting to
25% and an increase in soft wheat yields of 17%. In Loukkos, contribution of WUAs to users education
over the importance of renewing sprinkler irrigation equipment and reducing water losses on feeders
helped re-establish demand-driven irrigation at Errajae VVUA and reduce water losses by about 25%).
The major achievements derived from national experience in the field of PIM carried out under LSII-2
are as follows:
(i) development of a national planned approach for promoting PIM in Large-Scale Irrigation;
(ii) institutionalization of structures dedicated to monitoring the development process of PIM. Thanks to
interface with users through these structures, ORMVAs are able to successfully put through their
messages on the promotion of PIM and better meet WUAs' and users' needs in technical and
management monitoring terms.
(Wii) success of rehabilitation and system maintenance programs, in terms of adjustment to users' needs
and ownership of schemes in the areas where WUAs were established  and involved in the
implementation of these programs, confirms the need of institutionalizing this approach within the
rehabilitation process, particularly for the schemes acting as an interface with the users.
(4)-Medium and long-term rehabilitation plan
The project helped develop an in-depth reflection on medium and long-term rehabilitation needs and
establish an action plan in this respect, while identifying priority actions. The outcomes of this priority
program were internalized upon the establishment of the five-year plan for 2000-2004.
The experience gained under LSII-2 helped develop a rehabilitation approach centered on : i)-prior
organization of users within WUAs, their involvement in the designing of rehabilitation schemes and
their accountability for preserving equipment and managing them within a contractual framework; ii)-
integration of water-saving requirements and adjustment of new equipment to users' needs and to more
transparency in water metering.
(5)-ORMVA debt collection: (See I.1 .a)
(6)-Agreement protocols: assessment of the experience initiated under LSII-l (Agreement protocols of
Tadla and Doukkala ORMVAs) demonstrated the limits of such an exercise in the absence of an
operational Management and Information System and an appropriate institutional framework. That is
why LSII-2 efforts were focused on the implementation of MIS and their consolidation (See 2.c.2).
(7)-Reviewing the institutional framework of irrigation
The content and scope of this study were not specified at project preparation. Scheduling for the
implementation of this study did not take account of its prerequisites. In fact, adjustment of the
institutional framework assumes that options and choices in the areas of water tariffs, management of
irrigation systems, PIM development and management should have been previously determined.
(8)-Environment Monitoring Action Plans: achieved and implemented (See 2.e).
-.70 -



II-BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
a)-At project preparation
The active involvement of all parties concerned by the project (ORMVAs, central Directorates) both in
designing the elements required by the preparation and evaluation of the project and in the finalization of
the content and of the different components of the project, led to ownership of this project by different
stakeholders, which laid down favorable conditions for its implementation.
On the other hand, the fact of institutionalizing coordination of the project activities and their monitoring
through the setting up of dedicated structures and entities (creation of a Service for Large-Scale Irrigation
(SAGI) which is entrusted with the project secretariat, establishment of coordination and monitoring
committees), helped lay down favorable conditions for an adequate management of the project.
b)-At project execution
In a general way, all physical actions defined by the project were achieved without exceeding either costs or
time-limits. Approval of the Three-Year Action Plans helped determine budgeting and scheduling of the
project activities. Achievement of works and services was of satisfactory quality in accordance with the
reports of the project supervision missions.
Commitments passed under the loan and project agreements have all also been achieved in accordance with
the time-limits determined in consultation with the Bank. In order to ensure regular monitoring of the
project, periodical progress reports and ORMVA performance reports were regularly transmitted to the
Bank within the prescribed deadlines.
On the other hand, thanks to the efforts of operationalization of the Management and Information Systems
of ORMVAs, auditing of the project accounts and auditing of the ORMVA accounts were achieved and
transmitted within the deadlines prescribed. All these audit operations were satisfactory.
A centralized steering system for the project was established at the SAGI/DDGI :DDGI: Directorate for
Development and Management of Irrigation
and reproduced at the level of the ORMVAs to help ensure real-time monitoring of the running of the
project activities. Different portfolio review missions of the Bank were able to take stock of the quality of
project monitoring.
The works carried out by the project coordination and monitoring committees and the networks set up in
parallel to these committees (RIF, R21, RIG): RIF: Information Network for Training
R21: Computer Information Network
RIG: Management Information Network turned LSII-2 into an actual framework for reflection and
exchange of experience in large-scale irrigation improvement.
Despite the complexity of the project and the shortcomings encountered in its initial conception,
stakeholders from the Moroccan side, thanks to their active and continuous involvement in the preparation
and implementation process, grasped the opportunity of this project so as to consolidate and internalize the
concepts and approaches developed, and also created favorable conditions for achieving the project
activities within the prescribed deadlines and for ownership of its outcomes.
HIUI-PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND CO-FINANCIERS
The teams which were used by the Bank and co-financing institutions for project preparation were able,
- 71 -



thanks to their good understanding of large-scale irrigation improvement-related issues, to satisfactorily
design a consistent conception of the project. Devices and mechanisms designed by these teams for the
control of planning, monitoring and procedures, also helped thanks to their relevance a smooth running of
the project.
In addition, the intellectual support which was brought into the project by calling on expertise within the
framework of consultation missions contributed to offsetting the shortcomings from which the project
suffered at preparation and steering project activities while taking due account of the actual needs and
priorities of the sub-sector.
IV/-CONCLUSION
LSII-2 was designed as a multidimensional adjustment program incorporating, in addition to physical
investments, measures of institutional nature for upgrading large-scale irrigation. While it is a complex
project in view of its interdependent objectives and components and the diversity of the stakeholders
involved, it was able to develop a multidirectional approach for improving the large-scale irrigation
sub-sector centered on:
-preserving the production tool for irrigation water;
-strengthening the irrigation systems management tool, i.e. ORMVA: through both operational and
management efficiency improvement;
-reviewing the institutional framework governing the sub-sector in order to clarify mutual
relationships and commitments between the different actors involved.
-promoting water economy and harnessing to ensure the sustainability of the water service and
improve the income of farm units;
-protecting the environment through control of irrigation impact on natural resources.
Despite efforts made under LSII-2 to upgrade large-scale irrigation which has generated undeniable results,
the sub-sector still shows signs of vulnerability and, hence, risks of deterioration of its equilibrium, if
continuous action is not ensured. In this respect, pursuing improvement efforts by consolidating the
achievements should be considered as a priority action in the large-scale irrigation sub-sector. Such
consolidation should:
(i)-strengthen internal earnings of the sub-sector while preserving the viability of farm units;
(ii)-ensure sustainability of investments engaged through rehabilitation of irrigation systems;
(iii)-support efforts aimed at upgrading irrigation systems efficiency both at the level of irrigation networks
and farm units;
(iv)-intemalize the results reached in strengthening operational and management capabilities of ORMVAs;
(v)-develop a clear vision of the adjustments to be introduced in the institutional framework governing
large-scale irrigation.
DDGI - Rabat, June 2001
- 72 -



Additional Annex 11. Borrower Comments
(This is the translation from French of the document sent to the Bank on June 13th,2001 by the letter nO
3788/DDGI/DGRHA/SAGI signed by Mr A. Gueddari)
Examination of the implementation completion report prepared by the World Bank raised the following
comments on behalf of the borrower:
I/-EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
a)-Objectives
Although the objectives were clear and met the needs of improvement in the large-scale irrigation
sub-sector, they were not translated into specific quantitative objectives for each ORMVA. This would
have helped define the scope of the support measures and eased the evaluation of the objectives during the
course, at mid-term and at the end of the project. As illustration, reduction of budget transfers should be
put in the perspective of each ORMVA. Similarly, involvement of users in the management of irrigation
networks, though it is decisive in the sub-sector performance improvement process, has not been translated
into relevant actions or specific objectives.
b)-Components
.Rehabilitation
The report did not mention the importance of the guarantee fund designed to repair damages caused by
floods, which helped preserve the project efforts of rehabilitation and maintenance (199 M DH)
.ORMVA strengthening
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment and construction of buildings were considered excessive in the
report; this judgment is not well founded. It should be indicated that the acquisition of vehicles and
equipment was supposed to meet the needs of ORMVAs for means of field-intervention to ensure its
services conveniently. Construction of buildings was intended for establishing the new structure which was
recommended by MIS studies (Creation of Irrigation Network Operation Centres and Agricultural
Development Centres) and facilitating redeployment of staff at field level.
Likewise, the report made no mention of the insufficient amounts extended by the project for providing
irrigation networks with measurement and metering equipment, which are absolutely necessary for the
control of water distribution and for ensuring more transparency in water billings.
II/-ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
Evaluation of achievements is carried out in a broad manner for each component. Achievement
performances of each stakeholder (ORMVA) have not been highlighted.
a)-Regarding the preservation of investments, the indicators used to assess efforts made in this field are not
relevant: cost analysis accounting items are more appropriate than budgetary accounting ones for assessing
- 73 -



the actual effort made in maintenance (See Borrower's Evaluation § 2 b).
b)-Regarding the conclusions drawn by the implementation completion report on the achievement of the
project objectives, it seems to us that they are lacking relevant grounds based on an in-depth evaluation of
the outcomes and impacts of the project.
c)-Achievement by component
.Increasing and restructuring of water tariffs
The report does not seem to take into consideration the findings of the study on tariffs or its objectives.
This study helped determine the options for the review of the tariff system with a view to ensuring
sustainability of the water service and farm units. No project document had initially specified a tariff
principle to be adopted (scarcity of resources, competition from other sectors).
.Water Users Associations (WUAs): Evaluation of this component did not take account of the progress of
reflection work jointly undertaken on this issue with all partners (See Borrower's Evaluation Report
-§3-b-3)
III/-FACTORS WHICH AFFECTED PROJECT EXECUTION
.actors generally under the control of the implementing agency
For all the measures clearly defined by the project, officials at central as well as field level, made every
effort required in order to implement them. As a matter of fact, the decisions to increase water tariffs which
engage other bodies would not have been possible without the effort and determination of the latter and the
good quality of the arguments put forward.
IV/-SPECIFIC REMARKS (ORMVAs summary remarks)
ORMVA of Doukkala
The progress report considers the ORMVA of Doukkala among those which are not very effective in
collecting water charges; in this respect, it is deemed necessary to lay emphasis on certain aspects, which
affected collection rates:
-the negative effects of floods which had prevailed during 95/96 and 96/97 on crop production had an
adverse impact on collection of arrears.
-regarding year 99/2000, actual billings amounted in fact only to 244,39 M DH of which 161,3 M DH
were recovered, i.e. a collection rate of 66% instead of 59% as indicated in the implementation completion
report. At the request of beet producers of Faregh and Sidi Bennour, the roll corresponding to the first
quarter of 2000 (payable as from 07/01/2000) amounting to 46,735 M DH was issued with the objective of
adding it to the claims which will be collected through the sugar mill. By 06/30/2000, the amount of 9,753
alone was collected.
Therefore, the average collection rate from 1996/97 to 1999/2000 would be 59% instead of the rate of 57%
which was given in the implementation completion report.
- 74 -



ORMVA of Tadla
-Regarding integrated rehabilitation, it should be specified that the rehabilitated area in Tadla is larger than
the figure mentioned in the report: 8,000 ha instead of 7,400 ha. Consequently, there was no decrease as
stated in the report.
-Regarding maintenance of irrigation equipment, the ORMVA of Tadla expended greater efforts than those
mentioned in the report, both to ensure the involvement of the private sector and to increase funds allocated
to this component every year. These measures fall within the firm of improving the quality of the water
service provided to users.
-As to on-farm water use improvement, achievements of the ORMVA of Tadla are more significant than
those stated in the report : 600 Ha of laser-guided land levelling instead of 500 ha, 3,500 ha of drip
irrigation instead of 2,918 ha, creation of and encouragement to 5 junior businesses for the promotion of
the land-levelling operation.
ORMVA of Gharb
Analysis of the rehabilitation cost for this project gives rise to the following comments:
-the cost overrun compared with the initial evaluation by the World Bank is 2.9% against 7% stated in the
report. In this respect, it should be mentioned that technical assistance (11,19 M DH) was not taken into
consideration at the level of the initial estimate of the project cost.
-Rehabilitation cost varies from 38,000 to 55,000 DH/ha with a weighted average of 48,200 DH/ha and not
65,946 DH/ha, since the main schemes representing an amount of 106 M DH concern all the area of Beht
and not only 5,013 ha that have been rehabilitated under LSII-2.
-The average weighted cost per rehabilitated hectare (48,200 DH) is deemed normal in view of the fact
that, in the case of Beht, it is an integrated rehabilitation which concerned all the rehabilitation components
with ratios per hectare exceeding even the standards of new equipment (40 ml/ha against 25 to 30 ml for
irrigation and sewerage networks). One should also take account of the multiple crossing structures due to
the high population density in the project area and namely in sector 5.2 (which partly explains the relatively
high cost of this sector compared to the others).
-If functional WUAs play only a consultative role in the best case in the other areas, this situation concerns,
in the case of the Gharb area, only 18 out of 48 WUAs, which were created. Activities achieved by 30
WUAs, in addition to consensus-building and consultations, may be summarized as follows:
- -75 -



Number    Area       Activities currently achieved by WUAs           Remarks
of     concerne
WUAs    d
22       Rice    Distribution downstream  of secondary  Agreement by WUAs to take over
growing   water connections;                   the maintenance of secondary and
area    Consultation   on   annual  program   tertiary networks, if they are
(maintenance ....)                   granted    compensation    of
corresponding costs
3        C3                                            Agreement by WUAs to take over
sprinkler                                       irrigation  hydrants after their
irrigated                                       acceptance within the framework
area                                          of partnership contracts
5      Est 1 and   Present  participation   in  starting  WUAs  shall  take  part  in
Est 4    rehabilitation works                 acceptance  of  internal  and
external equipment.
Farmers in the sectors mentioned in the above table were very actively interested in getting organized in
WUAs.
-Promotion of Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) in the Gharb area can only be considered as
successful. Its impact on the water service is very positive in rice-growing sectors (reduction of the volume
consumed from 20,000 to 14,300 m3/ha).
-Bouayadia and Ezzouhour WUAs' areas are the branch lines ("antennes") and not the tertiary pipes
-All Gharb WUAs determiined, at their general meetings, registration and annual membership dues, unlike
the consultant's conclusion.
ORMVA of Haouz
The water tariff adjustment plan achieved spreads over 3 years as follows:
.Year 97/98 : 0.01 dirham for all areas;
.Year 98/99:
*0.02 dirham for Tessaout Amont,
*0.03 dirham for Central Haouz
.Year 99/2000:
*0.02 dirham for Central Haouz,
*0.0 1 dirham for Tessaout Aval,
Which amounts to an increase by:
- 76 -



*0.06 dirham for Central Haouz,
*0.04 dirham for Tessaout Amont,
*0.01 dirham for Tessaout Aval.
-In Annex 8.2, registration and annual membership dues are not determiined for the WIJA of Sultania.
These dues are respectively 60 DHfha and 20 DH/ha/year (not including water charges which amounts to
35,000 Dh/year for the whole association).
- 77 -



Additional Annex 12. Co-Financiers' Comments
12.1 KfW COMMENTS
(This is the translation from French of the letter sent to the Bank on May 22nd ,2001 and signed by Mr
Prestele and Mr Kleffmann.)
L I c/2 -     Morocco - LSI-2, Implementation Completion Report,
Ref. your letter of May 8, 2001.
Dear Sir,
We acknowledge receipt of your letter mentioned above. We examined the Implementation Completion
Report with much interest and thank you for giving us the opportunity to express our related views before
drafting the final version.
We share your view as to project performance, namely the objectives which have not been achieved and the
unlikely sustainability of the investments. It is obvious that the project design has demonstrated its
weaknesses at the level of the sector-related strategy due to the absence of a previous definition of the
status and role of the partners concerned (central and regional administrations, ORMVAs and Water Users'
Associations). Yet, we think that the initially projected studies represented a valid approach for determining
strategic options in terms of institutional reforms during project implementation. Unfortunately, the said
studies were either reduced or carried out with serious delays. In this respect, it should be noted that the
Moroccan party did not show too much interest in reaching more concrete conclusions and that donors did
not sufficiently bind their investment measures to the progress of studies and approval of their results.
Therefore, reduction of the project budget by 28% seems to us of little significance compared with the
unsatisfactory project performance.
According to the findings of our continuous evaluation of LSII-2 at the ORMVA of Loukkos which is due
to be completed by the middle of 2002, the project generated good results at the level of the water service,
agricultural production as well as ORMVAL organization and the skills of its staff. However, these
achievements may be short-lived, which questions the sustainability of the investments that have been
financed by KfW since the seventies. The major problems which in the long run affect the adequate
maintenance of technical facilities and the overall sustainability of the project are as follows:
(1)    unsatisfactory collection of water service costs and hence dependency of the ORMVA or more
precisely of the water service on uncertain budget transfers;
(2)   the public character of the ORMVA with respect to the water service and
(3)   the lack of involvement of the Water Users' Associations in the management of the network.
In conclusion, our findings at the level of the ORMVA of Loukkos do, in a general way, confirm
the major observations of the Implementation Completion Report of the World Bank. In
agreement with your report, we consider that the clarification of the legal framework of
ORMVAs represents the key problem of the large-scale irrigation sub-sector in Morocco. Any
future action in this field should first be directed toward a good solution of this problem.
(Prestele)                         (Kleffinann)
- 78 -



Other remarks:
4.1.1/4.1.2
It would be useful to present the results with specific indicators.
4.1.1
Lack of quantitative data is not satisfactory
4.1.3.a)
It seems to us unconvincing and methodically inadequate to assess the balance of the operating accounts
through an average figure of all ORMVAs taken as a whole (overall coverage ratio of water service costs
by water sale revenues of the 7 ORMVAs).
4.1.3. b)
Explanation of the decrease in collection rates (drought, data processing method) is not sufficient. In the
ORMVAL, the overall collection rate is continuously declining as a result of accumulated additional
arrears from previous years (1997/98-1999-2000). The different causes of arrears should be mentioned,
namely the attitude of farmers, the additional arrears, the limitations placed on exercising sanctions and the
constraints related to a possible solution to the problem of arrears deemed irrecoverable.
4.1.4
Rehabilitation of 3,000 farm hydrants achieved promising results (see 4.1.4). In view of the remaining large
portion of the project, one wonders why this activity shows a rather low achievement rate (9,500 projected
hydrants).
4.1.5
The conclusion that rehabilitation works and upgrading of irrigation system operation led to the
improvement of the environment by reducing water losses is not imperative. On the other hand,
intensification of agricultural production as a result of the measures carried out under the project might
have a harmful impact on the environment.
4.2.2 b2
Explanation of the failure of this reform is not satisfactory. Outside design-related problems, conflicts of
interests among Moroccan partners should also be mentioned.
4.4
It would be interesting to highlight the importance and evolution of the water costs share in gross margins.
4.5
Despite efforts in training, the level of skills is still insufficient to ensure an efficient control of the
accounting system.
5.1
Not valid for the Loukkos areas. There have been no drops in the water availability which might have
limited the water service.
5.4
- 79 -



KfW loan will be closed by June 30, 2002.
6.1.3
In fact, the adjustment plan has been respected so far, although the introduction of the new tariffs was
delayed. We are at present waiting for a tariff increase in 2001, an increase which was projected in
December 2000. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture is contemplating this year an additional general
increase of 0.02 DH/m3 to face up to the increase in price levels.
7.1.2
In this respect, it would be useful to discuss the position and supervision of the donors vis-a-vis the
insufficient implementation of the institutional reforms.
8.1
Apart from a clear definition of the missions of the concerned structures, a new commitment to the
large-scale irrigation sub-sector should set up a time schedule with milestones for the implementation of the
reforms.
- 80 -



12.2 AFD COMMENTS
(This is the translation from French of the letter sent to the Bank on June 6th,2001 under nO
GOC/TI C/Fl C/MT/JA and signed by Miss Tennesson Mathilde and Mr A. Henry.)
Object: Morocco - Second Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (LSII-2) - Implementation
Completion Report.
Ref Your letter of May 8, 2001.
We have received the draft Implementation Completion Report on the Second Large-Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project (LSII-2) in Morocco and we thank you.
We do share the main points of analysis and conclusions presented in the report, which, in fact, largely
confirm our own findings:
*     Institutional aspects
o     initial design of the institutional reforms was insufficient,
o     Government contractual relationships with each ORMVA were held up, due to lack of
determination from officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and ORMVAs,
o     a strong fimancial dependency on supervisory authorities was maintained.
*     ORMVA organization
o     Management and Information Systems designed to improve internal control were established
(implementation of a private general and cost accounting system and a technical and fmancial reporting
system), but little used by ORMVAs as an aid to decision-making and budget management,
O     General inefficiency of water users' associations which were created to meet an external
requirement that was not clearly understood by concerned farmers.
*     Technical aspects
o     Efficiency improvement of rehabilitated works
o     Quasi inexistence of achievements related to on-farm water use efficiency following the reduction
in the counterpart funds.
*     Financial aspects
o     The tariff structure was adjusted and water costs increased, in accordance with donors' wish,
o     Very poor collection of water billings issued by ORMVAs,
o     Stagnation or deterioration in system operation performances and ORMVAs' financial structure
AFD financed two irrigation projects in the area of Gharb (Support to the rehabilitation of eight pumping
stations and extension of irrigation areas up to 11,700 ha), which are integrated in the large-scale irrigation
project conducted by the World Bank.
A retrospective appraisal of these two projects led to the conclusion of insufficient investigation (studies
were not specific enough), to a satisfactory technical and financial implementation for the first project, and
to a satisfactory investigation and a very satisfactory implementation for the second one.
Overall objectives of the project of support to the rehabilitation of the eight pumping stations were reached:
the rate of availability of the network went up from 53% in 1992 to 100% in 1999, irrigated surface
increased by 14% and settled at an average of 60% It does not however meet the expected objective which
sought the actual irrigation of 80% of equipped surfaces.. On the other hand, a beneficiary survey shows
that farmers are satisfied with irrigation (improved operation of the network, securing crops, increased
- 81 -



irrigated area, increased yields, reduced energy costs, diversified and increased income One of the
advantages from which farmers of this area benefit may however disappear. Crops which were developed
(beet, sugarcane, rice, vegetables ...) do indeed benefit from prices guaranteed by the Government which
subsidizes their production).
Regarding the second project, objectives were fulfilled in terms of equipment. It is too early to deternine
the rate of irrigation of equipped areas.
However, the ORMVA of Gharb remains weak at institutional and financial levels and strongly dependent
on its supervisory authorities, which is harmful to project viability. While tariff adjustments were
practically achieved, the water charges collection rate is yet very low. The Government is therefore bound
to provide every year a significant balancing subsidy which would in no case help finance all maintenance
activities that may be required.
A retrospective evaluation of the two projects in the Gharb area highlighted the following
recommendations:
the desired institutional development of the ORMVAG was supposed to lead to the enforcement of
the initial legislation which legally enable it to control the number of its staff, its water sale prices and its
budget management.
In order to promote a balanced operating account of the ORMVAG, several options are possible,
namely: increase of water prices, reduction of staff, transfer of tertiary networks-related charges to farmers,
development of ORMVAG, particularly with a view to establishing a financially independent operation and
maintenance service.
Water users associations were particularly created to take over the construction, maintenance and
technical and financial management of the water distribution tertiary network. Yet the financial
counterparts of this transfer of costs and powers as well as the advantages derived in terns of quality of
services rendered are not clearly established for users. A redesign of the financial conditions for taking over
these activities (conditions which should probably be differentiated according to the crops involved and
technical irrigation and drainage conditions encountered) should be rapidly envisioned with the objective of
giving more impetus and credibility to water users associations.
It is for this reason that AFD made consultants available to ORMVAG in order to continue thinking over
its institutional evolution. In this regard, ORMVAG adopted in July 1999 a strategic plan based on the four
following guidelines which have been validated by the supervisory authorities:
promoting Participatory Irrigation Management,
adjusting agricultural development services to farmers' needs,
divestiture of the ORMVA from the last activities which are yet to be transferred either to the
private sector or to farmers' organizations,
restructuring the ORMVA with a view to adapting its organization to its mission as redefmed by
the supervisory authorities.
Lastly, and in the framework of a new development project (ORMVAG Est I and Est 4) which is
co-financed by AFD and FADES, a study designed to "continue reflecting on the ORMVAG institutional
framework" shall be conducted. This study shall seek to translate the strategic plan into multiyear
operational plans and draft a "contractual document" which would be binding to the ORMVA and its
supervisory authorities and would determine the basic mission of the ORMVA as well as the related public
service missions and the means recognized by the supervisory authorities with which to implement them.
Projects for the rehabilitation and equipment of irrigated areas financed by AFD in Morocco seek to
improve efficiency of water production and distribution systems, ensure their sustainability and economic
- 82 -



efficiency while harnessing as much as possible an increasingly declining natural resource.
In a more general way, we think it would be desirable to lay emphasis on the institutional reforms which
need to be carried out in large-scale irrigation sector.
The idea of a project combining:
i)     material investments,
ii)    institutional reforms involving, more or less resolutely, according to each situation, the "historical'
I actors, i.e. ORMVAs, water users associations, following variable models to be defined on a case-by-case
basis, but also potential private operators to which the Government could entrust the management of
certain irrigation areas and the achievement of certain investments (following procedures that are yet to be
defined),
iii)    upgrading on-farm irrigation, optimal use of water cubic meter unit and agricultural development
of the irrigated area,
remains quite relevant in our view.
AFD agrees on the main conclusions reached by the World Bank at the close of LSII-2 and is ready, at the
request of the Moroccan authorities, to join any effort of reflection and any project which would on this
basis seek to improve the development and management of large-scale irrigation in Morocco.
- 83 -



