Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3587 MOR
                         Project Agreement
        (Second Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DES DOUKKALA
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU GHARB
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU HAOUZ
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU LOUKKOS
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DE LA MOULOUYA
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DE OUARZAZATE
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU SOUSS-MASSA
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU TADLA
                                and
      OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU TAFILALET
                        Dated June 14, 1993
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3587 MOR
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and OFFICE REGIONAL DE
MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DES DOUKKALA and OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN
VALEUR AGRICOLE DU GHARB and OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
AGRICOLE DU HAOUZ and OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU
LOUKKOS and OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DE LA
MOULOUYA and OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DE
OUARZAZATE and OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU SOUSS-
MASSA and OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU TADLA and
OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR AGRICOLE DU TAFILALET
(collectively, the "ORMVAS"; each an "ORMVA").
      WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Kingdom of Morocco (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two hundred fifteen million dollars ($215,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that each ORMVA agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS each ORMVA, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms and expressions defined in the Loan Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional term and expressions
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Management Information System" means a computerized
management system designed to improve the management efficiency of
the ORMVA;
      (b)   "ONE" means the National Electricity Authority of the
Borrower (Office National de l'Electricite) established pursuant to
Law (Dahir) No. 1-63-226, dated August 5, 1963, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and
      (c)   "its respective Part of the Project" means, with respect
to Doukkala ORMVA, Parts A.1, C and D of the Project, with respect
to Gharb ORMVA, Parts A.2, C and D of the Project, with respect to
Haouz ORMVA, Parts A.3, C and D of the Project, with respect to
Loukkos ORMVA, Parts A.4, C and D of the Project, with respect to
Moulouya ORMVA, Parts A.5, C and D of the Project, with respect to
Ouarzazate ORMVA, Parts A.6, C and D of the Project, with respect to
Souss-Massa ORMVA, Parts A.7, C and D of the Project, with respect
to Tadla ORMVA, Parts A.8, C and D of the Project and with respect
to Tafilalet ORMVA, Parts A.9, C and D of the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Each ORMVA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, each ORMVA shall carry out its
respective Part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for said Part.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the ORMVAs shall
otherwise agree after consulting with the Borrower, each ORMVA shall
carry out its respective Part of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Each ORMVA shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and its respective Part of the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) Each ORMVA shall exchange views with the
Bank with regard to the progress of its respective Part of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   Each ORMVA shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
Page  3
progress of its respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan or the performance by such ORMVA of its
obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
              Management and Operations of the ORMVAs
      Section 3.01. Each ORMVA shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
engineering, financial and agricultural practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. Each ORMVA shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
      Section 3.03. Each ORMVA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) Each ORMVA shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   Each ORMVA shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. Each ORMVA, other than Ouarzazate ORMVA and
Tafilalet ORMVA, shall take all measures required on its part to
ensure, by December 31 of each year until completion of the Project,
collection, in accordance with the rates set out in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement, of Water Charges, including arrears outstanding as
of January 1, 1993, on account of Water Charges, owed each ORMVA by
its Irrigation System's beneficiaries.
      Section 4.03. Each ORMVA shall continue to pay its electricity
charges to ONE within 120 days from the date of receipt by the ORMVA
of bills substantiating such charges.
      Section 4.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement, each ORMVA shall, for each
Fiscal Year until completion of the Project, make such allocations
out of the ORMVA's net revenues for the preceding Fiscal Year as
Page  4
shall be necessary to fund, on a priority basis, activities under
Part A of the Project.
      (b)    For purposes of this Section, the term "net revenues"
means the difference between:
            (i)    the sum of revenues from the ORMVA's water
                   distribution operations; and
           (ii)    the sum of all expenses related to the ORMVA's
                   water distribution operations including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                   payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                   provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                   operating charges and interest and other charges
                   on debt.
      Section 4.05. Each ORMVA shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank, not later than June 30 of each year until completion of the
Project, commencing on June 30, 1994, a report, of such scope as
outlined in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, describing the ORMVA's
financial performance for the preceding Fiscal Year.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and the ORMVAs thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify each ORMVA thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For Doukkala ORMVA:
Page  5
            El Jadida
                                           Telex:
                                             78924
      For Gharb ORMVA:
            Kenitra
                                           Telex:
                                             92113
      For Haouz ORMVA:
            Marrakech
                                           Telex:
                                             72934
      For Loukkos ORMVA:
            Ksar El Kebir
                                           Telex:
                                             32924
      For Moulouya ORMVA:
            Berkane
                                           Telex:
                                             61028
      For Ouarzazate ORMVA:
            Ouarzazate
                                           Telex:
                                             72916
      For Souss-Massa ORMVA:
            Agadir
                                           Telex:
                                             81870
      For Tadla ORMVA:
            Fkih Ben Salah
                                           Telex:
                                             23908
      For Tafilalet ORMVA:
            Errachidia
                                           Telex:
Page  6
                                             41005
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any ORMVA may be taken or executed by its
Director or such other person or persons as said Director shall
designate in writing, and each ORMVA shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of
the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Harinder Kohli
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DES DOUKKALA
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DU GHARB
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DU HAOUZ
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DU LOUKKOS
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DE LA MOULOUYA
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DE OUARZAZATE
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DU SOUSS-MASSA
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DU TADLA
                                and
                         OFFICE REGIONAL DE MISE EN VALEUR
                          AGRICOLE DU TAFILALET
                         By /s/ Abdelaziz Meziane
                                         Authorized Representative
                          SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
Page  7
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$180,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Items or groups of items of equipment and vehicles estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $500,000 per contract, but not
less than the equivalent of $30,000 each, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $35,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Miscellaneous items of equipment and vehicles estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $30,000 each may be purchased on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more; and (ii)
each contract for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding sub-paragraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the ORMVAs in carrying out Parts A, C and
D of the Project, the ORMVAs shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
Page  8
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
A.    Progress in Project Implementation
      Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 and
9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to exchanges of views and
reports, respectively) each ORMVA shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank, not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year until
completion of the Project, commencing in Fiscal Year 1994, a semi-
annual report on progress achieved in carrying out its respective
Part of the Project, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
may reasonably request.
B.    Three-Year Revolving Action Plan
      Each ORMVA shall, not later than January 31, 1994, prepare and
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a three-year
revolving action plan setting out measures to be taken and acts to
be carried out by the ORMVA to ensure timely and effective Project
implementation. Each ORMVA shall annually update said plan and
furnish it to the Bank for its review and comments not later than
January 31 of every year until completion of Project, and shall,
thereafter, take all measures necessary on its part to ensure
implementation of said action plan as updated, taking into account
the Bank's comments thereon.
C.    Management Information System
1.    Each of Haouz ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA, Souss-Massa ORMVA,
Ouarzazate ORMVA and Tafilalet ORMVA shall, not later than June 30,
1994, employ consultants, pursuant to the provisions to Section II
of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, to design and install a Management
Information System at the main office of each of the above-mentioned
ORMVAs, and shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments
findings and recommendations of such consultants not later than
June 30, 1995.
2.    The Bank and each of Haouz ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA, Souss-Massa
ORMVA, Ouarzazate ORMVA and Tafilalet ORMVA shall, not later than
September 30, 1995, exchange views with respect to said consultants'
recommendations and, on the basis of said exchange of views, each of
Haouz ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA, Souss-Massa ORMVA, Ouarzazate ORMVA and
Tafilalet ORMVA shall take all measures required on its part to
ensure implementation of the consultants' recommendations taking
into account the Bank's comments thereon.
D.    Operation and Maintenance
1.    (a)   Each of Doukkala ORMVA, Gharb ORMVA, Loukkos ORMVA and
Moulouya ORMVA shall, not later than June 30, 1994, employ
consultants, pursuant to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, to assist in the establishment of new operation
and maintenance procedures for pumping equipment located within the
ORMVA's own Irrigation System, and shall furnish to the Bank, not
later than June 30, 1995, said consultants' conclusions and
recommendations.
      (b)   The Bank and each of Doukkala ORMVA, Gharb ORMVA,
Loukkos ORMVA and Moulouya ORMVA shall, not later than September 30,
1995, exchange views with the Bank with respect to said consultants'
conclusions and recommendations and, on the basis of said exchange
of views, each of Doukkala ORMVA, Gharb ORMVA, Loukkos ORMVA and
Moulouya ORMVA shall take all measures required on its part to
ensure timely implementation of the consultants' recommendations
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Page  9
2.    (a)   Each ORMVA shall, not later than June 30, 1994, employ
consultants, pursuant to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, to assist in the establishment of new operation
and maintenance procedures for irrigation networks and buildings
located within the ORMVA's own Irrigation System, and shall furnish
to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1995, said consultants'
conclusions and recommendations.
      (b)   The Bank and each ORMVA shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1995, exchange views with the Bank with respect to said
consultants' conclusions and recommendations and, on the basis of
such exchange of views, each ORMVA shall take all measures required
on its part to ensure timely implementation of the consultants'
recommendations taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
E.    Private Sector Participation in Maintenance Activities
1.    In order to implement the objectives of Section C of the Annex
to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement, each ORMVA shall, not later
than March 31, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank an action plan
designed to enhance the role of the private sector in the
maintenance of the Irrigation Systems, and shall, promptly
thereafter, commence implementation of said plan taking into account
the Bank's comments thereon.
2.    Each ORMVA shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
contracts for the procurement of equipment and vehicles under
Section C of the Annex to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement shall be
awarded only after such ORMVA has received the Bank's approval of
the above-mentioned plan.
F.    Rehabilitation Works
1.    In order to implement the objectives of Parts A.1.a, A.2.a,
A.5.a, and A.8.a of the Project, each of Doukkala ORMVA, Gharb
ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA and Tadla ORMVA shall, not later than June 30,
1994, employ consultants, in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to assist Doukkala ORMVA
in carrying out Part A.1.a of the Project, Gharb ORMVA in carrying
out Parts A.2.a of the Project, Moulouya ORMVA in carrying out Parts
A.5.a of the Project and Tadla ORMVA in carrying out Parts A.8.a of
the Project.
2.    Each of Doukkala ORMVA, Gharb ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA and Tadla
ORMVA shall take all measures necessary on its part to ensure that
contracts for rehabilitation works under its respective Part of the
Project shall be awarded only after the ORMVA has received the
Bank's approval of the above-mentioned consultants' employment.
G.    Design of Subsurface Drainage Systems
1.    Each of Gharb ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA and Tadla ORMVA shall, not
later than June 30, 1994, employ consultants, pursuant to the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to carry
out designs of subsurface drainage systems under Parts A.2.a (ii),
A.5.a (iii) and A.8.a (iii) of the Project, respectively, and shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments recommendations of
such consultants, not later than December 31, 1994.
2.    The Bank and each of Gharb ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA and Tadla
ORMVA shall, not later than March 31, 1995, exchange views with
respect to said consultants' recommendations and, on the basis of
said exchange of views, each of Gharb ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA and
Tadla ORMVA shall take all measures required on its part to ensure
implementation of the consultants' recommendations, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon, prior to awarding contracts for
the procurement of civil works and equipment under Parts A.2.a (ii),
A.5.a (iii) and A.8.a (iii) of the Project, respectively.
H.    Hydrant Rehabilitation
1.    In order to implement the objectives of Part C.3 of the
Page  10
Project, each ORMVA shall, not later than June 30, 1995, prepare and
furnish to the Bank for its review and comments engineering studies
setting out an evaluation of the technical and organizational
arrangements necessary for the rehabilitation of hydrant structures
and the setting-up of metering procedures in such ORMVA's
Perimeters, and shall, promptly thereafter, commence implementation
of said arrangements taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon.
2.    Each ORMVA shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
contracts for the provision of metering and control equipment under
Part C.3 of the Project shall be awarded only after such ORMVA has
received the Bank's approval of the above-mentioned arrangements
required for the rehabilitation of its respective hydrant
structures.
I.    Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan
      Each ORMVA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments, not later than December 31, 1994, an
environmental monitoring and management plan, of such scope as
outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, which shall set out
measures designed to mitigate the environmental impact of Project-
related activities, and shall, promptly thereafter, commence
implementation of said plan taking into account the Bank's comments
thereon.
J.    Billings and Collection
1.    Each ORMVA, other than Ouarzazate ORMVA and Tafilalet ORMVA,
shall, not later than June 30, 1994, furnish to the Bank a
statement, prepared on the basis of a methodology established by the
Bank, reflecting total amounts billed and total amounts collected by
each ORMVA on account of Water Charges and Land Betterment Levies
due and payable to the ORMVA during Fiscal Year 1992.
2.   Each of the ORMVAs referred to in the preceding paragraph
shall thereafter exchange views with the Bank with respect to the
above-mentioned statement and shall, on the basis of said exchange
of views, make necessary adjustments thereto taking the Bank's
comments into account.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                          Collection Rates
      The following rates refer to the amounts to be collected by
the ORMVAs from water users in the ORMVAs' Perimeters for purposes
of Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
ORMVA              1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Doukkala            90%    91%    91%    92%    92%    93%
Gharb               81%    85%    90%    90%    91%    92%
Haouz               85%    86%    87%    88%    89%    90%
Loukkos             74%    75%    80%    82%    83%    85%
Moulouya            70%    80%    82%    84%    86%    90%
Souss-Massa         78%    80%    82%    84%    85%    85%
Tadla               90%    92%    93%    94%    95%    95%
                            SCHEDULE 4
                Indicators of Financial Performance
1.    Annual direct operating expenses incurred in connection with
(i) construction of new Irrigation Systems; (ii) rehabilitation of
existing Irrigation Systems; (iii) operation and maintenance of
existing Irrigation Systems; and (iv) agricultural development
services.
2.    Annual indirect costs incurred in connection with (i)
construction of new Irrigation Systems; (ii) rehabilitation of
Page  11
existing Irrigation Systems; (iii) operation and maintenance of
existing Irrigation Systems; and (iv) agricultural development
services.
3.    Annual amounts billed and collected on account of Water
Charges, Land Betterment Levies and pumping fees and arrears
outstanding in connection therewith.
4.    Annual expenditures made in connection with maintenance
activities carried out by private sector contractors.
5.    Annual energy charges owed ONE and annual payments made on
account thereof.
6.    Annual allocation of net revenues referred to under Section
4.04 of this Agreement and actual expenditures made on account
thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Guidelines for Environmental Monitoring
                        and Management Plans
A.    Areas of Environmental Impact Mitigation
      1.    Drain maintenance.
      2.    Agricultural pollution.
      3.    Industrial effluents.
      4.    Quality of drainage water.
      5.    Waterlogging and salinity control.
      6.    Groundwater extraction.
      7.    Training program in the fields of (i) general
            environmental protection; and (ii) environmental impact
            of operation and-maintenance-related activities on the
            ORMVAs' Irrigation Systems.
B.    Specific Provisions
      1.    All nine ORMVAs shall, each in its own environmental
            monitoring and management plan, address areas A.1, A.2,
            A.3, A.6 and A.7 above.
      2.    Only Loukkos ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA and Tadla ORMVA shall
            address area A.4 above.
      3.    Only Gharb ORMVA, Loukkos ORMVA, Moulouya ORMVA,
            Ouarzazate ORMVA, Souss-Massa ORMVA, Tadla ORMVA and
            Tafilalet ORMVA shall address area A.5 above.
