Document of
FILt COPY                     The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-l934a-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A
NINTH POWER PROJECT
March 18, 1977
hIxs d1cumed bm a rutiied distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
dr offic  duti.    cel tents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = 7 Cordobas (C$)
c$l.oo = us$o.1429
Fiscal Year
ENALUF keeps its accounts on a calendar year basis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR A NINTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$22.0 million to Empresa Naciona] de Luz y
Fuerza (ENALUF), with the guarantee of the Republic of Nicaragua, for a
ninth power project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
3 1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A memorandum entitled "Economic Memorandum of Nicaragua" (Report
No. 914-NI) was distributed to the Executive Directors in November, 1975.
The following paragraphs summarize and update the conclusions cf this report.
A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        Nicaragui's major natural resource is its arable land, whichi is
suitable for a variety of products. Although the share of agricultural
production in total output has declined in recent years, agriculture con-
tinues to be the main source of economic expansion, and is responsi.ble for
about 50-60 percent of employment and over 70 percent of export earnings.
The country is divided into three distinct agricultural zones: The Pacific
Zone, where about 60 percent of the nation's 2 million popu]ation lives,
is marked by a dual structure of farming -- a large number of small farms
grow basic grains with conventional technology, and a few large farms
specialize in cotton and sugarcane using modern technology; the mountainous
Central District is devoted mainly to coffee and livestcck; and the l;-rge
Atlantic Plain holds a largely unutilized potential for forestry anrd live-
stock production.
4.         Nicaragua's longer-term economic growth prior to the 1972 earthquake
was impressive, although it was characterized by sharp cyclical changes. Real
income grew at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent (3.5 percent per capita)
during the 1946-1972 period.   The strong upward trend in inccme resulted from
the expansion of production for exports, primarily of cotton, coffee, and beef,
but also of simple manufactured goods.   The substantial growth of the economy,
however, did not mitigate the highly skewed distribution of wealth and income.
Moreover, the rural sector is characterized by a dualistic structure of agricultural
production and the related, highly concentrated pattern of land ownership. The
poorest one-third of the rural population, for example, holds only about 3.5 percent
of the country's arable land.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.       Plrogress in reducing income disparities has been delayed by
the persistently low level of public expenditures. The slow growth of
current expenditures -- and a consequent shortage of important public
service facilities such as education and health -- largely reflects bud-
getary stringency dictated by insufficient revenues. Outside the field
of transport and electricity, the process of project identification and
preparation has been extremely limited in the past. As discussed below,
however, progress has taken place in both fiscal performance and project
preparation in the past three years.
6.        The earthquake which struck Managua on December 23, 1972 took
a toll of about 10,000 lives, destroyed or rendered unusable practically
all the central zone of the city, including most government offices,
hospitals and schools, the financial and commercial buildings and perhaps
2,500 small shops engaged in small-scale manufacturing and retail trade.
About 32,000 housing units, or about 45 percent of the housing in the
Managua area, were destroyed. The impact of the earthquake on productive
capacity, however, was considerably lower than initially feared, and the
economy has recovered at a much faster pace than originally estimated.
Growth in GDP was 4.2 percent in real terms in 1973 and reached 13 percent in
1974. The impressive growth of the latter year was mainly attributable to
construction activity in Managua. Unemployment, which had increased very
steeply in 1973, moved down to pre-earthquake levels of about 6 percent in
1974. However, as a result of slackening reconstruction activity, compounded
by a weak external demand for some of Nicaragua's industrial exports, GDP grew
by less than 2 percent in 1975. During 1976, improved world market conditions
for Nicaraguan exports gave new impetus to economic expansion and GDP is
estimated to have grown by over 6 percent during the year. As far as the
accomplishment of physical reconstruction is concerned, most public service
facilities were back to, or exceeded, pre-earthquake levels by 1975, but much
remains to be done to rebuild housing and commercial outlets for the poorer
segments of the population.
7.        The emergency taxes introduced after the earthquake, and the new
taxes approved in late 1974 which succeeded them, reflect a major fiscal
effort which has raised taxes as a percent of GDP from 8.9 percent to about
11 percent. However, this increase in domestic resource mobilization still falls
short of the domestic financial requirements associated with the completion of
reconstruction and projected levels of investment in the Government's develop-
ment program, and further efforts for increasing government revenues are called
for.
8.        The improved fiscal performance has been accompanied by progress
in overall planning and project preparation. The public investment plan
prepared by the Government for 1975-79 assigns priority to expanding agri-
cultural production and improving health, education and housing facilities



- 3 -
for the rural poor. While a major effort is still required to improve
project preparation in the fields of rural and social development, several
projects have been developed recently or are in preparation in these fields;
for example, in addition to the recently approved Bank education project
(Loan 1244, signed on June 15, 1976), the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) recently approved a loan for rural electrification, and the Govern-
ment has prepared a rural water supply project for the Bank's consideration.
Also, the Government is proceeding with the reorganization of the public
sector agricultural institutions with financial and technical assistance
from USAID; the main focus is on the implementation of a recently created
integrated rural development program -- INVIERNO -- which is supplying credit
and technical assistance to small producers in the Central Pacific and
Central Interior regions and is also coordinating public activities in
education, health, housing and infrastructure for the same target groups.
9.        With regard to balance-of-payments performance in the years
following the earthquake, cotton, coffee and beef have continued to be the
leading traditional exports and constituted 29 percent, 13 percent and 9
percent respectively of total merchandise exports on average over the
period 1973-75. Relatively simple manufactured exports (e.g. textiles,
animal feed, chemical and wood products) have been rising rapidly and already
represent over one third of total exports.    While imports averaged less than
30 percent of GDP during the latter part of the 1960's and up to 1972, the
post-earthquake reconstruction process, rapid credit expansion and higher
imports prices drove this figure up to 45 percent in 1974.    Imports increased
by almost 150 percent from 1972 to 1974 while exports increased by less than
60 percent, and the resource balance changed from plus US$23.0 million to
minus US$200.0 million.    The deficit was covered by heavy borrowing during the
period (much of it on commercial terms) and international reserves remained
unchanged.   However, the increase in the volume and prices of imports resulted
in the reserves relative decline from over three months' imports to about one
and a half months' imports. The balance of payments situation improved
substantially in 1975, when largely as a result of slackening economic activity,
imports declined by 10 percent, while export proceeds remained virtually unchanged.
The resource gap declined from 14 percent of GDP in 1974 to 9 percent in 1975.1/
Unusually favorable prices for exports of coffee and cotton in 1975 coupled with
the lag effect on imports of the 1975 economic slowdown are estimated to have
reduced the resource gap to an insignificant level in 1976.
10.       Since the earthquake, Nicaragua's external debt outstanding and
disbursed has increased rapidly -- from about one-fourth of GDP in 1972 to over
one-third in 1975.   The average terms of the debt have hardened considerably
because of heavy borrowing from private commercial sources.     In the immediate
future, because of high coffee prices, this may not result in too high a debt
service ratio. (The ratio for 1976 is estimated at 1.3.6 percent.) However,
1/ Derived from data at current prices.



considering that coffee Fnd cotton prices may decline in the next two to three
years, a serious effort to expand and diversify exports will have to be made and
additional external borrowing on commercial terms will have to be kept to a
mimimum. If the country is successful in this endeavour, the debt service ratio
should not exceed 17 percent during the remainder of the decade.
11.      The overall prospects for the country's future economic expansion will
thus depend heavily on movements in international prices of its major exports
(cotton, beef and coffee) and imports (especially petroleum and fertilizers),
as well as on the success of policies in the following fields: (a) export
diversification, which is to be achieved through the promotion of resource-based
exports such as wood products, fruits and vegetables; (b) substitution of imports
such as corn and some processed food products which could be produced efficiently
in the country; (c) holding imports down to a reasonable level through appropriate
domestic credit managment; and (d) restraining external borrowing on unfavorable
terms. If these policies are implemented, the Nicaraguan economy may be expected
to continue to grow at a satisfactory pace.
External Finance
12.       External official finance is provided principally by the Bank,
USAID, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the Central American
Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI). Recently, the Venezuelan Investment
Fund (VIF) has begun providing assistance to Nicaragua through a Us$16.1
million equivalent loan for electric power. Since 1973 a substantial portion
of the USAID assistance has been channeled to the reconstruction of Managua.
USAID has made loans for agriculture, highways, industry, rural electrifica-
tion, housing, education and health. In agriculture, it has played an
important promotional role in developing the INVIERNO project to assist rural
development in some of the more depressed areas of the country. CABEI is
financing projects with regional impact, principally in transportation,
industry and power. In addition, CABEI has lent for housing and in lesser
amounts for education and agriculture. IDB is financing agriculture, water
supply and sewerage, industry, housing, transportation and higher education.
The lending of the principal external lending agencies from 1950 through
1976 is summarized below:
IBRD    IDA    USAID    IDB    CABEI    TOTAL
(In millions of US dollars)
Total                               126.7   23.0    166.1  181.8    121.1    622.7
Cumulative Lending 1950-65           35.6    3.0     20.7   42.4     13.3    115.0
Cumulative Lending 1966-76           91.1   20.0    145.5  139.4    111.8    507.7
Transport                          16.0     -       2.8    3.5     52.3     74.6
Power and Telecommunications       44.3     -      15.0   16.5     19.7     95.5
Education                          15.4     -       7.3    9.3      0.7     32.7
Health, water and sewerage          6.9     -      11.2   37.7       -      55.8
Housing                              -      -       3.7    6.o      6.8     16.5
Agriculture                         8.5     -      31.4   48.7      0.7     89.3
Industry and commerce                -      -       5.0   16.7     26.5     48.2
Reconstruction                       -    20.0     45.0     -        -      65.0
Other                                -      -      24.0    1.0      5.1     30.1



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROlUP OPERATIONS
13.       To date, Nicaragua has received twenty-one Bank loans and two IDA
credits, totalling US$149.9 million. As of January 31, 1977, a total of
US$33.3 million remained to be disbursed on six loans for education, water
supply, power, agriculture and ports, and on the Earthquake Reconstruction
Credit. The last operation was a loan for the equivalent of US$11.0
million for a Second Education Project, signed June 15, 1976. In general,
progress on most of these projects has been satisfactory, although cost
overruns in the past three years have hampered execution of several projects,
particularly in ports, and electric power. With respect to the Earthquake
Reconstruction Project, the power and water supply components have been
implemented without significant problems. A portion of the education component
and the sites and services component was delayed initially, largely because of
difficulties in acquiring sites, but is now proceeding satisfactorily. The
industrial component suffered initial delays in the submission of acceptable
sub-projects, but all of this component has now been disbursed. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of January 31, 1977, and IDA
credits and IFC investments as of January 31, 1977, as well as notes on the
execution of on-going projects.
14i.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily weighted towards assist-
ing Nicaragua develop basic infrastructure, through loans for electric power,
ports, and highways.     More recently, an increasing share of Bank lending has
been directed towards agriculture, water supply and education, and in 1973,
IDA made a US$20.0 million credit for earthquake reconstruction. The Bank's
current lending program is designed to respond to Nicaragua's development
requirements in several different ways. Given the importance of efforts to
strengthen the balance of payments, one objective is to support Government
programs for export diversification through loans for agricultural and
industrial credit. Another objective is to assist further institutional
improvement, and help meet the growing resource requirements of the electric
power company (ENALUF), and to assist Nicaragua to develop its potentially
large geothermal energy resources. In line with the objective of insuring a
wide distribution of the benefits of Bank-supported projects, the proposed
Ninth Power loan would include funds for extending electric service into low-
:ncome locations in the concession areas of ENALUF.     The Bank is also planning
icc give major emphasis to assisting Government efforts to improve productivity
and living conditions in the rural sector.   This objective would be supported
through the recently approved Second Education Project, through projects for
rural roads and for water supply, and through projects designed to strengthen
efforts, now beginning under the INVIERNO program, for the development of some
of the most depressed areas. The project in the most advanced stage of
processing is for water supply and sewerage.    This project which has recently
been appraised and which is expected to be presented for Board approval in the
second quarter of FY78, has two components. The first is to assist the Managua
Water Company to improve and expand its service. The second involves an
innovative program designed to provide water and sewerage facilities to rural
communities of less than 300 inhabitants, and thus to reach persons -in the
lowest income groups in Nicaragua.



- 6 -
15.       The Bank's share of total external public debt disbursed and
outstanding is likely to remain at about 10 percent on the average through
1981. The Bank and IDA's share of debt service in 1974 was about 11 percent;
it is projected to decline during the remainder of the decade because of
Nicaragua's substantial relatively hard-term commercial borrowing in the past
few years.
16.       In FY1968, IFC made two loans and an equity investment totalling
US$2.1 million equivalent to help establish a new cotton and synthetic fiber
textile company (FABRITEX). IFC's equity has since been sold to local
investors. FABRITEX was hampered in its early years by marketing problems
associated with difficulties in the operation of the Central American Common
Market, and aggravated by the 1972 earthquake in Managua. The company is
now in the process of reorganizing its operatiohs and financial structure.
In June 1976, IFC made a loan of US$6.5 ihillion to Propiedades Azucareras de
Nicaragua to help expand their sugar production capacity, and a loan of
US$700,000 and an equity investment of US$200,000 to help finance the Camino
Real, a first class hotel in Managua.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources and Government Strategy
17.       Nicaragua has no proven commercially exploitable fuel deposits;
coal and fuels derived from oil are presently imported. Recently, however,
exploration for oil and gas by private oil companies has been intensified.
There are substantial indications from the country's geological charac-
teristics that Nicaragua has a large geothermal potential and an on-going
study is evaluating this potential in the area of the Momotombo volcano.
In a recent study, the Nicaraguan hydropower potential was estimated at
around 1,600MW, of which a large proportion would be from low-head hiydro
plants.
18.       Traditional sources, such as wood and bagasse, are contr.buting
a declining percentage of the primary energy requirements (55% in 1960 and
362o in 1973), and are rapidLy being substituted by commercial, petroleum-
based energy sources.   (Coal usage is insignificant.)   Commercial energy
requirements in 1973 were estimated at about 690,000 tons of petroleum
equivalent, of which about 590,000 tons were supplied by imported oil and
the remainder by hydropower. From 1960 to 1973, commercial energy demand
rose at an average annual rate of about 10 percent which was substantially
above the real GDP growth rate of about 6.5 percent.
19.       Before the oil crisis, Nicaragua's energy sector strategy was based
on the lack of low-cost hydropower sites and on low fuel prices. Consequently,
Nicaragua's power expansion program has consisted mainly of thermal projects,



- 7 -
with local geothermal and large hydro projects being given low priority.
Accordingly, ENALUF (the dominant entity in the Nicaraguan power sector)
undertook, in 1972, the construction of a 10OMW steam electric station
with the intent of selling excess power to Honduras during the construction
of the El Cajon hydropower project in that country (planned power output of
about 300MW), and to provide protection against dry years. The Bank
supported this strategy by financing the construction of the station and the
interconnection between Nicaragua and Honduras.
20.       Recent changes in relative prices of primary energy have led to a
reassessment of the above strategy. The present strategy calls for reducing
the dependence on imported oil through a balanced development and use of
local geothermal and hydroelectric energy, and through electric system inter-
connections with Honduras and Costa Rica, to ensure that sufficient capacity
is available to meet the growing demand.
Sector Organization and Regulation
21.       ENALUF supplies 87 percent of the electricity generated _n the
country. ENALUF is also the principal retail distributor of electricity, but
its share of retail sales is expected to decrease somewhat in the coming years
(from 85 percent in 1974 to about 78 percent in 1990) because of the more
rapid growth of other distributors. These distributors include five coopera-
tives, thirteen private companies and three municipalities which serve about
37 percent of the country's electricity clients.
22.       The Electric Industry Law of April, 1957   regulates production,
transmission, distribution and marketing of electricity in Nicaragua. The
National Institute for Electric Energy (NIEE) was formed in August, 1969, and
assumed all the functions of the former National Energy Conuiission. As the
national regulatory agency, it is responsible for the development, coordina-
tion, tariff regulation and supervision of the electric power industry. Due
to NTIEE's technical andl financial constraints, most of these functions are
informally delegated to ENALUr. As far as tariffs are concerned, these are
decided at the Presidential level, with informal participation by ENALUF.
23.       As a result of majcr tariff actions, consisting of adoption of a
fuel adjustment clause in 1974 and a 30 percent general tariff increase in
1975, ENALUF's average tariff levels are presently satisfactory; nevertheless,
to assure timely adjustment to future fuel price increases ENALUF has agreed
to an automatic application of the fuel adjustment clause (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.09). Because of Government policies designed to provide incentives
to the productive sectors, tariffs for industry and agriculture are much
lower than those for residential and commercial consumers and do not reflect
the long-term incremental costs of supply. Also, notable variations in
pricing to ultimate consumers exist between ENALUF, electric cooperatives and
other retailers. The proposed Bank financing, therefore, includes funds for
a study to determine the long-term marginal cost of service. The study would
provide a yardstick for determining the adjustments needed in the tariff
structure to discourage wasteful use of electricity. The study would be



- 8 -
completed in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank. Within
six months of the completion of the study, ENALUF would review with the
Bank a new rate structure and, if a new rate structure is agreed, a
timetable for causing the -new rate structure to become effective (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.07(a) and (b), Schedule I(3) (a)).
24.       In view of the changes in Nicaragua's energy development strategy,
the Government is assessing the future organization of the energy sector.
There is need for formulation of: (a) detailed policies for the development
of the sector; (b) long-range sector plans; and (c) priorities for expansion.
To rationalize the sector organization and future development, the proposed
loan provides funds for a sector organization study (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01 (a) and (b), Schedule I(3) (c)).
Electricity Supply and Consumption
25.       At present, mainly the North, Central and Pacific Coast areas are
supplied with electricity. The Pacific Coast area, which includes all the
major towns, is the most developed and industrialized part of the country.
The industrial sector is the largest consumer of electricity in Nicaragua,
accounting for 47 percent of total power sales in 1974.   Sales and sales
growth by client category have been as follows in recent years:
NICARAGUA'S ENERGY CONSUMPTION
Average
Client Category         1970 Sales        1974 Sales        Annual Growth
GWh        %      GWh         %             %
Industrial            188.3     43.9    298.0     46.9          12.2
Irrigation             17.8      4.1     53.0      8.3          31.4
Pumping                15.9      3.7     27.7      4.4          14.9
Sub-total          222.0      51.7    378.7     59.6          14.3
Residential           117.4     27.4    145.8     22.9           5.5
Commercial             57.7     13.4     72.2     11.4           5.8
Government             21.6      5.0     24.2      3.8           2.9
Street Lighting        10.8      2.5     14.7      2.3           8.0
Total               429.5    100.0    635.6    100.0          10.3
Irrigation is the fastest growing category, in part because of its small base.
Industrial consumption accounts for more absolute growth by a wide margin than
any other category. Growth in the residential, commercial and Government
categories was slowed by the effects of the Managua earthquake of December, 1972.



Ruiral Electrification and Service to Low Income Urban Areas
26.       ENALUF supplies electricity at wholesale to five cooperatives
serving rural areas.   The five cooperativ s, through a 2,000km distribution
network, supply an area of about 20,000km with a population of about
180,000. This corresponds to about 18 percent of the estimated rural
population of the country.
27.       In order to serve more rural clients directly, ENALUF has been
undertaking, since late 1975, the first stage of the Second National
Electrification Plan at a cost of about US$21 million, with IDB financing
of US$16.5 million, and a Government contribution of US$4.4 million equiva-
lent as equity. This project is expected to provide electricity to about
70,000 people in the tMatagalpa and Rama areas. In addition, the proposed
loan includes funds for extending electric service into low-income (mainly
urban) locations in the concession areas of ENALUF.
Power Sector Development
28.       Tn October of last year, the Bank-financed transmission line inter-
connecting the electric power systems of Nicaragua and Honduras was inaugurated.
Since then ENALUT has supplemented its generation of electricity by purchases
from the Honduran power company.   Beginning in 1979, Nicaragua intends also to
purchase energy from the Costa Rican power company, through the interconnecticn
to be financed under the propcsed loan. (CABEI has indicated interest in
financing the Costa Rican portion of the line.) Pursuant to an agreement between
the two countries, a study of the feasibility of interccnnecticn has been carried
cut under the Joint sponsorship 6f ENATXF and the Costa Rican Power Company.    The
two companies have also begun negotiation of an interconnecticr. contract, to be
followed by negotiation of a formal interconnection treaty between Nicaragua and
Costa Rica.  The most likely next generaticn addition after the Tiscuco plant
wculd be a 35MW geotlhermal unit at the foot of the Mosotorl,c volcano.  The latter
was originally st;udied by the United Nations Development Programme (uPiZP).
ETT\ALUF completed the feasibility study for this unit in late 1976, ind expects
to complete the installation of the unit by mid-1979.
2'^i.     ENALUP's tentative plans, beyond the first unit of Momotcrtc, and the
Costa Rican interccnnection, include completion cf two additional 501MW units
at Mcmotombo by 1981 and construction of a high dami at the Copalar site in the
Matagalpa River.   The site would be equipped with six 55MWS units which are
expected to go into operation from mid-1985 to mid-1987. In order to assure the
optimum timing and sequence of these projects, wl;ich may involve a total invest-
ment on the order of US$400 million, the Bank loan would finance a long-term
master plan to be developed by a team made up of EMALUF's staff and consultants
(Loan Agreement, Schedule I(3) (a)). The master plan study would include a
power market survey, an energy resource survey, an evaluation of the optimal
combinations for generation, transmission, distribution and regional inter-
connection, and a study of alternatives for a national load dispatch center.



- 10 -
Previous Projects with ENALUF
30.       The Bank has made eight loans for the power sector in Nicaragua.
The first four loans, totalling US$9.6 million, were made during 1953-56
to finance thermal generating units, transmission lines and the expansion
of distribution facilities in Managua and outlying towns. Implementation
of these early loans was satisfactory, although with some cost overruns.
A noteworthy institutional improvement during this period was the adoption
by the Government of the Bank's recommendation that ENALUF, which had been
an agency of the National Railway, be established as an autonomous public
corporation. Also, during this period, ENALUF for the first time engaged
consultants to prepare a long-term power development program.
31.       The program thus developed led to the US$12.5 million fifth Bank
loan in 1960, for the construction of Nicaragua's first hydroelectric project,
the 50MW Rio Tuma plant. This project, which doubled ENALUF'S generating
capacity, represented a fairly ambitious undertaking for a small ccmpany such
as ENALUF. Moreover, certain weaknesses in management and financial perform-
ance had been noted during appraisal. To help overcome these deficiencies,
ENALUF and the Government agreed to engage a number of experts,as well as to
convert previous Government advances into equity,and arrange for the provision
by the Government of local currency funds required in addition to those
generated by ENALUF itself. Although problems were encountered in the physical
execution of the project, it was completed as scheduled at appraisal without
substantial cost overruns.
32.       The US$5.0 million sixth power loan (470-NI) of October 1966 financed
a 15MW gas turbine unit, transmission lines, sub-stations, expansion of the
distribution system and construction of a headquarters building. The Bank was
satisfied at that time that high load growth, adequate rates, Government equity
contributions and improved management gave assurances of ENALUF's financial
viability. The project was completed on schedule. In June 1968, the US$15.25
million seventh power loan (534-NI) was made to ENALUF to finance an additional
40MW steam unit for the Managua Power Plant, a 50MW hydroelectric plant (Santa
Barbara), transmission lines and sub-stations. The project experienced cost
overruns of about US$4.5 million above the original cost estimate of US$21.8
million. The additional cost resulted from unfavorable rock structure in a
tunnel and relocation of a dam because of unforeseen foundation conditions.
However, even at the higher costs, the project remained economically justified.
33.       The Bank made its eighth power loan (840-NI) to ENALUF in June 1972, in
the amount of US$24.0 million, to finance a 2 x 50MW steam plant at Tiscuco,
transmission lines, sub-stations and management studies, as well as US$1.5



million of cost overruns under the seventh project. At the time of the
approval of this project, it was recognized that although ENALUF was a
reasonably well run company, there was a need for improvement in certain
management areas if the company was to continue satisfactory performance
in the future. ENALUF therefore agreed to hire management consultants who
made a series of recommendations, some of which are inthe process of
implementation and others of which are to be implemented with the assistance
of a General Coordinator who has recently been hired (see discussion in
paragraph 37 below). During the implementation of the eighth project, delays of
about 14 months occurred in the construction of the steam power plant and
the associated transmission lines. These delays are attributed to the need
to make repairs and install emergency facilities for power following the
earthquake of December 1972, late deliveries of equipment by suppliers, and
late effectiveness because of delays in signing the interconnection contract
with Honduras.   (The Bank's Earthquake Reconstructioi Credit, made in 1973,
included an electric power component which is expected to be completed in early
1977 within appraisal cost estimates.) The eighth project, originally appraised
to cost US$34.7 million equivalent, is expected to be completed late this year,
with a cost overrun of an estimated US$24.3 million due in part to the delays
noted above and to inflation, and in part to ENALUF's decision to increase
quantities and construction standards on certain items (operators' housing
access road) not to be financed by the Bank. The Venezuelan Investment Fund
is assisting ENALUF by lending US$16.1 million equivalent for the cost over-
runs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Ninth Power Project, Nicaragua"
dated March 18, 1977, is being distributed separately. The main features of
the loan and project are summarized in Annex III. The project was appraised
in December 1975 - January 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 29 to December 3, 1976. The ENALUF delegation was headed by
Mr. Luis Manuel Debayle, its Executive President. The Government was
represented by Messrs. Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa, Ambassador of Nicaragua in
thle United States, and Francisco Zeledon, Minister Counselor of Economic
Affairs of the Nicaraguan Embassy in Washington.
The Borrower
35.       ENALUF grew out of an initial consolidation of several electricity
companies that operated in its present concession areas. The effective
generating capability of ENALUF's National Interconnected System (NIS)
operating with four principal power plants is 193MW; the installed capability
is expected to reach 428MW by 1981.
36.       An eight-man Board of Directors is responsible for overall policy
matters. It includes a chairman who is also the Executive President and two
representatives of the Government (one each from the National Economic Council
and the National Development Institute); the remaining members represent private



- 12 -
trade associations and thc major political parties. All the Directors are
appointed by the President of Nicaragua.
37.       The top Management of ENALUF is strongly centralized in the Executive
President and two Vice-Presidents.   The need for improving this and other aspects
of the present management structure have become progressively more evident with
the increased burdens imposed on ENALUF first by the 1972 earthquake and sub-
sequently by the energy crisis, which have placed a major strain on ENALUF's
financial situation and led to major changes in the power investment program. To
help alleviate this situation, therefore, the Executive President has appointed a
General Coordinator, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, who will
be delegated authority to supervise day-to-day operations, thus allowing the
Executive President to concentrate more on policy issues (Loan Agreement, Section
4.05(a) and (b)). One of the first tasks of the General Coordinator will be to
review areas where deficiencies have been noted, e.g., budget preparation and
financial controls, procurement procedures, cohstruction management and cost
control, staff training, with a view to developing improvement programs and to
identifying needs for consultants to assist him in this action. In addition,
assurances have been obtained on a number of specific points, i.e. that (1) a
training unit will be established under a training director, both under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1977; (2) a
training program satisfactory to the Bank will be developed by June, 1977, and
Dut into effect by December 1977 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06(a) and (b));
(3) procurement and training experts will be appointed prior to loan effectiveness
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a));
(4) terms of reference for additional experts proposed by the General Coordinator
(and covering, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the areas of cost estimating,
construction management, financial control and budgeting) will be agreed with the
Bank prior to loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a)); and (5) existing
insurance coverage is being reviewed as a first step toward providing a program of
protection of ENALUF's properties against earthquake damage (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.01(a) and (b)).
Description of the Project
38.       The main physical components of the ninth power project would pro-
vide (1) the Nicaraguan portion of an interconnection line to Costa Rica, and
(2) transmission and distribution facilities which would complement the facil-
ities for generation and transmission supplied under the eighth power project.
As such the ninth project would include about 12 percent of the ENALUF
investment program for 1976-80 (assuming full implementation of the planned
Momotombo geothermal development, which would represent 48 percent of the
total investment program for the period). The specific project components
are as follows:
A.   Interconnection
Construction of about 145km of a 230kV transmission line for
interconnection with Costa Rica.



B.   Transmission
Construction of about 22km of a 138kV transmissLon line; construction,
addition, and/or conversion of substations with about i22MVA; reloca-
tion of about 75M1VA transformer capacity, and installation of pro-
tective and metering equipment; installation of about eight 69kV circuit
breakers.
C.   Distribution
Installation of about 65MVAR capacitors and of distribution lines,
transformers, and connections in low income areas.
D.   Load Dispatch Center
Construction of a national load dispatch center and installation of
equipment to operate the Honduras-Nicaragua-Costa Rica interconnectior.
E.   Consultants' Services
a.   For supervising construction of the physical works of the project.
b.   For preparation of:  a master plan for power system expansion;
a nationwide tariff study to determine the marginal cost of providing
electrictty to various customer classes and to recommend a tariff
structure which would reflect marginal costs; and a study of
alternative designs and specifications for the national load
dispatch center.
c.   For assistance in preparation and implementation of a program
to improve the Borrower's management and administration, including
a personnel traintng program.
d.   For preparation of a sector organization study.
39.       The large increase of transmission and distribution facilities as a
result of the project would allow ENALUF, and the retailers which it supplies,
to p;roviide electricity to about 4OO,OOC additional people in Nicaragua during
t;be project period. The distribution component of the project would provide
excluisively for extension of service to low-income users within ENALUF's
cor.cession area.  Appropriate criteria have been agreed for selecting the areas
which would be given priority.  Based on ENALUF's initial inventory of villages
and urban communities,some 160 potential priority locations (housing some 60,000
people)have been identified for this program. It has been agreed that
ENALUF will submit a detailed report showing pertinent details on the areas
selected on the basis of the agreed criteria as a condition for disbursement for
this component (Loan Agreement, Schedule I, paragraph 4(c)). The project
includes a study to help the Government in develcping a program to rationalize
power sector organization as well as a national master plan for the sector, which
is urgently needed to establish priorities in an expansion program based on the
least cost development, and a tariff study based on marginal cost pricing. The
consulting services and expert assistance for management and administrative
improvements, combined with the engagement of a General Coordinator to



- i4 -
assist the Executive Pres-ident, are expected to substantially improve the
efficiency of ENALUF.
Project Cost
40.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$32.4 million, with
a foreign component of US$20.4 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$22.0
million would cover the foreign cost of the project, plus about US$1.8 million
out of the US$3.8 million required for interest during construction and other
charges on the Bank loan. The financing of a portion of interest during
construction is designed to help alleviate the financial burden associated with
ENALUF's large investment program. The remaining costs would be covered by
ENALUF's internal contribution to expansion. An allowance of 5 percent for
physical contingencies was added which is reasonable since no major civil works
are included. To provide for expected price increases, a contingency allowance
of 13 percent has been provided for local items for 1976, 12 percent for 1977-
79 and 10 percent thereafter; for foreign costs a price contingency of 9 percent
has been used for 1976, 8 percent for 1977-79 and 7 percent thereafter. The
average cost for consulting services (excluding price contingency, travel and
subsistence was estimated to be about US$4,300 per man-month. Details of project
costs and of the financing plan are presented in Annex III.
Financial Position and Future Earnings of ENALUF
41.       In 1973-74, the impact of the earthquake, local and international
inflation, and additional investment expenditures from cost overruns resulted
in negative cash flows and low returns on net average operating assets for
ENALUF. This made it necessary for ENALUF to borrow about US$21.5 million from
commercial sources. Subsequently, ENALUF hired a consulting firm to conduct a
tariff and revaluation study. The study ultimately led to implementation of a
fuel adjustment clause, a general tariff increase, a revaluation of assets as of
December 31, 1974 and significant improvement in ENALUF's rate of return (to 8.4
percent in 1974 on revalued assets).
42.       ENALLF and the Government have agreed that ENALUF would maintain a
rate of return of at least 8.5 percent on annually revalued average net fixed
assets in operation (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b) and Loan Agreement,
Sections 5.08 and 5.11). This rate of return would result in the financing
of 22 percent of ENALUF's large 1977-79 investment program from internally
generated resources. The operating ratio would decline from 67 percent in
1976 to 54 percent in 1980 and the debt-equity ratio would not exceed 47/53.
ENALUF has agreed to retain all its earnings for reinvestment in new facilities
until the project is completed (Loan Agreement, Section 5.12).
43.       Overdue accounts receivable created problems for ENALUF in the past,
and ENALUF agreed under previous loans to take all necessary action to main-
tain the total amount of its accounts receivables in arrears below 110 percent
of the total average monthly billing corresponding to the 90 days immediately
preceding the date of calculation. ENALUF's performance under this provision,
which is repeated under the proposed loan, has been good (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.07). ENALUF has agreed that it will have its accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that it will send audited
financial statements and the auditor's report to the Bank within four months
of the end of the fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.02).



- 15 -
44.       ENALUF's future annual debt-service coverage ratios are expected
to be between 1.49 and 1.63. It has been agreed, as under previous Loan
Agreements, that ENALUF will seek prior Bank agreement to new long-term
borrowing whenever net revenues are less than 1.5 times the maximum debt-
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section
5.06(a)). As noted in paragraph 33 above, ENALUF's funding problems for the
eighth project were partly the result of its decision to increase quantities
and construction standards on certain items not be be financed by the Bank.
In order to help avoid similar difficulties from arising in the future, ENALUF
has agreed that it will undertake expansion, other than the ninth project,
costing more than one percent of the value of gross fixed assets in operation,
only if the Bank has received satisfactory evidence that such expansion is
economically justified and ENALUF has adequate financial resources for carrying
out the expansion (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04(a) and (b)).
Project Execution and Procurement
45.       ENALUF would contract consultants, in accordance with prccedures
agreed with the Bank, to assist in design, procurement and construction
supervision of project works and in carrying out the project studies, except
for the sector organization study (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). ENALUF
would relend the funds for the latter to the National Planning Directorate
(NLP), which woulc contract consultants for carrying out the study under terms
and conditicns agreed with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). Some
construction which would not be Bank-financed (especially of distribution
works) is expected to be performed by ENALUF's own forces.
46.       All contracts for Bank-financed works would be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with guidelines for
procurement under Bank loans except that: (i) special protective relaying
and metering equipment for substations, which is not suitable for ICB
because of the need for standardizaticn, would be purchased on a negotiated
basis up to an estimated total cost of about US$0.35 million; and (ii) other
imported equipment, which would be required in small quantities and for which
ICB would be impractical, would also be procured on a negotiated basis at an
estimated total cost of US$0.2 million.   In accordance with the Central
Anierican Commoii Market (CACM) Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for Industrial
Development, manufacturers of CACM countries would be granted a preference
of 15 percent of the CIF landed price or 50 percent of the tariff payable by
non-CACM4 manufacturers, wlhichever is lower. Items which could be competitivc
under this arrangement would include conductors for the lines, construction
materials (including wood poles), low voltage switchgear and distribution
transformers, accounting for up to about US$2.2 million of the amount proposed
for financing by the Bank. Assurances have been obtained from the Government
and ENALUF that they would continue, under the proposed project, their practice
of reducing shipping costs through waivers issued by the Ministry of Economy,
of any provisions of the shipping law of Nicaragua which would lead to delays
or freight charges above thcse of regular shipping lines and maritime
conferences (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08 and Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.05).



- 16 -
Disbursements
47.       Disbursements would be made for the percentages of costs shown
below:
(i) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment,
materials and other goods and of installation supervision;
(ii) 92 percent of the ex-factory cost of contracts for goods awarded
to Nicaraguan manufacturers;
(iii) 75 percent of the total cost of locally procured goods for the
distribution works;
(iv) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of training and of the
total cost of services of consultants and experts; and
(v) 100 percent of the financial charges on the Bank loan thcough
June 30, 1979.
48.       Retroactive financing of up to US$0.8 million for expenditures
after July 1, 1976 is proposed for the costs of studies and engineering
required for project preparation. Should ENALUF or the Government obtain
a grant from other sources for financing the master plan study, it is
proposed that ENALUF    use the corresponding Bank funds to increase the
low-income area distribution component. It is also proposed that, with
the Bank's agreement, undisbursed funds remaining upon completion of the
project be applied to other works of similar nature.
Environmental Effects
49.      The transmission lines and substations included in the project are
not expected to have a significant effect upon the environment; substation
works would be almost entirely in existing substations.    Only two new substations
would be built (Matagalpa and Leon II), both in uncongested rural areas.
Having recently experimented with esthetic design for 69kV lines while
rerouting circuits near Managua, ENALUF is conscious of their visual impact
and intends to minimize the impact of the proposed new lines.
Return on Investment
50.      In view of the difficulty of isolating the benefits provided by the
project components, a rate of return has been calculated on ENALUF's entire
investment program for the 1976-1980 period, rather than on the project. The
project's physical works are the least cost alternative. Using 1976 tariffs
as the measure of benefits, the rate of return on the program would be 13.1
percent. A sensitivity analysis shows that this return would be reduced to
10.3 percent if investment cost is assumed to increase by 10 percent and
benefits to reduce by 10 percent. If sunk costs incurred prior to 1976 are



- 17 -
excluded, the equalizing discount rate would increase to 16.2 percent.
These discount rates are in line with the probable opportunity cost of
capital in Nicaragua. This suggests that consumers, on the average, are
presently paying prices which reflect incremental costs. The actual
economic rate of return is higher than the above calculations would
indicate, since they do not include indirect benefits to industry, commerce
and other large consumers whose contribution to production would likely be
lower if they had to finance their own higher cost electricity generation
facilities.
Project Risks
51.      The physical components of the project are relatively simiple and
their execution should involve few difficulties. The return on the low-
income electrification component could be substantially less than projected
if' the rate of new connections is lower than expected. Assurarices have been
received frcm ENALUF that it will consult wfith the Banh on measures (such
as reduction of connection fees, financing of household wiring and modifications
in tariff structure) to improve this rate if actual resuilts are lower thaan those
shown in the project performance indicators (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(d)).
Successful implementation of the recommendations bf the stiidies and cf the
r-,.management assi4stance component of thte project will require a high degree of
comrnitmeint on the part of thle Goveri,ment; andi ENMUl1J.  It is possible that
negot;i ation of the necessary agreements between Nicaraguia ai)ul Costa RTea tor
interconnection of their two power systerts w,ill nIot be successfully concludecn.
'J.'his w-oul. mean that the benefits to Nicaragua from the interconnection component
o,f the project, mainly fuel savings from reduced utilization of existing thermal
capacity, would not be realized.   Hovever, the economic rate of return on the
int-ercTnection1 componenlt is approximately the same as that for IENALUF's entire
invest';'laent progrtaIs so that elimin-ation of this componentl; would not have a
signiaficant effect on the overall rate of return.
PAPT V - LEGAL IN STRMEYTIS -IND AU. THORT1:Y
e2.      The draft Loan Agreement between Empresa Nacic-nal de Luz y Fuerza and
nae Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreerment between the Repul:lic of Nicearagua and
the Bank., the fleport of the Committee provided for in Article III. Section 4
(iii) of th,e Articles of Agreenient of the Bank, and the text of the Resoluticn
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
53.      Features of special interest in the draft Loan Agreement   and in the
draft Guarantee Agreement are described in Part IV above. Special conditions
of effectiveness are the appointment by ENALUF of experts for procurement and
training under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and agreement with
the Bank on terms of reference for additional experts identified by ENALUF's
General Coordinator (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(a) and (b)). The approval by
the Bank of the feasibility study of the load dispatch center, and a detailed
report on the areas selected for the distribution comnonent are conditions



- 18 -
of disbursement for these project items (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(b), (c) and (d)). Conditions of disbursement for the inter-
connection component would be: (i) execution of legal arrangements between
Nicaragua and Costa Rica authorizing all action necessary to establish and
maintain an interconnection line between the power systems of the two
countries; (ii) an interconnection contract, satisfactory to the Bank,
between ENALUF and ICE, the Costa Rican Power Company; and (iii) adequate
assurances of the availability of the financing necessary for the Costa
Rican portion of the interconnection. A feature of special interest in the
Loan Agreement regarding procurement is that the Borrower agrees not to
proceed with the preparation of bid documents for the distribution component
of the Project until receiving written notification from the Bank that it
finds such part technically and economically acceptable (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, paragraph A2).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed l6an would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 18, 1977



- 18 -
of disbursement for these project items (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(b), (c) and (d)). Conditions of disbursement for the inter-
connection component would be: (i) execution of legal arrangements between
Nicaragua and Costa Rica authorizing all action necessary to establish and
maintain an interconnection line between the power systems of the two
countries; (ii) an interconnection contract, satisfactory to the Bank,
between ENALUF and ICE, the Costa Rican Power Company; and (iii) adequate
assurances of the availability of the financing necessary for the Costa
Rican portion of the interconnection. A feature of special interest in the
Loan Agreement regarding procurement is that the Borrower agrees not to
proceed with the preparation of bid documents for the distribution component
of the Project until receiving written notification from the Bank that it
finds such part technically and economically acceptable (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, paragraph A2).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed l6an would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 18, 1977



AMNIX I
Page ; of 4 pasem
Unlass otherwina noted, data for 1960 refer to any y-a between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 beresao 1968 ad 19710, and for Moat Recent Eatisits betweean
1971 -sd 1973.
a Differen... between U.N. rate of naturalir1      a   and TBRD popuslation grooth rat. have not yet bass rectoncil..
ae Coata fiea ha. been slatted as an objective nountry since, although It ama In the ama.s inn bra..ket seith Nicaragua In 1970, it- per ..pita Ineam was
20-25 percen.t higher, which fare it a reasonable i-ca      target in the madin tm-.   But more importantly, Coats Rica, which ba. a reource b... very
.i.ilar to that of Nicaragua has managed to obtain a much mor equitable distribuation, of imcemee and smtial services at the a- time as it h"n achieved
a aignificaotly higher lavel of per capita innone,.
NICARAGUiA      1960    /   1950-63,     /b  1963;     /c  1965:    /d  Itaide only.
1970    L.   1963-68,    lb  Monagon only.     Ic  coral Population only.
MOST RECtil  ESTIMATE:   Ia  1963-72;     /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor for.e*,      Ic  1975;     /d  1970-75:
Ie 1974.
GUATEKALA       1970    /a   1964-70,    /b  7-12 and 13-17 yeara of age reapectively;      /c  Including evening aehoola
PANAMiA         1970    /   Including residents weorking in Canal Zone ;    /b  In-n    recipient,    /c   Inelds only;    /d  10 yearn and ovr.
COSTA RICA      1970    /a  Ptio of population    oder iS and 65 and over to total labor force:       b   open unanpInymnt;     /c   1971;    /d  12-16 yearn of age
R4, Aog-at 26, 1976
DEFINITO(9S OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou k.                                                                Puoulation per nursingt perso  - Pepulation divided by sumber of practicing
Total -Total sorface cunpria i. land area and inland waters.                        male and fenale graduate bursae, `trained" or '-dftif led' notar, and
Akide. -Moot recant entinat. of agricultural area uwed temporarily or               auxliary persbonnel with training or   operienea.
peroanently for crops, paet.rca, market 6 kitchen gardens or to lie            Psoulation per 1,ospital bed - Population divided by onohr of houpita1 beds
fallow,                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~available in public ;and-pt-vtear  gen..ral and epecialied hospital and
rehabilitation centra    exoludee nuring bones and nocabllaltneot    for
IMP per capita 1015) - GNiP per capita enti.ateo at istrret market pri..n.          custodial and preventive care.
calculated by earns  00cuonnthd an World Pack Atlan (1073-75                   Per capita supply of caoie        of -esuireobont.) - Coputad fron energy
ba.si), 1960, 1970   nd 1971 data.                                               equivalent of act fond eupplies availablei 1.mc   ntry per capita per day,
available supplies empries donetic production, imports less euports,
Ppuplation a-d vital statintic.                                                     and ch-mges in otock, net supplies exclude aninal iced, Deado, qu-nti-
Po-ulation (otd-yr.   illion) - go ofJuly first:    if nor available,               ties used in food processing adbos        in distribution: requirre.nto
averoge of two e.d-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                     were estimated bly FAO based on physiolsgieel needs for norml activity
and health conuidering enivironnsental tenperature, body ueighto, age and
Popula!tion de-it -eear soars Ion - Mid-year population per square kilo-          ceo distributions of population, anod all1wieg 10% for .aste .1t boise-
moo  (10bca        )  fcrlaea,                                                  bold l..el.
Poplaton  ensty  ne  ov-rsIn, of'agric. land - Cmoputed as above for       Per caPita auPnl  of prtijojr.Z.-Poencneto                           e
agricolturs1 land only.                                                          capit arne  supply of food per day; net supply of fond Is define    as
above: requirennts for all omotries established by 015A tEonosic
Vital otatintico                                                                    Research Setrvices provide for a ninimin  allowance of 60 gram   of total
Crude bithb rats p.r thouaand - A--ol live births per thousand of mId-             . protein per day, and 20 gram   of animal and pulse protein, of which
year Ppopultion, ten-year aritbastic averges ending In 1960 and 1970,             If grn   should he nebmal Protein; these ute4drdo ae lower then these
and frn-year average ending in 1975 for noar recent estimate,                    of 71 geno   or total protein and 23 gras of animal protein as a-
Crude death rate per thousad - Annul desthe per thousand of mid-year                  average for the world, prop-aed by tICC in the Third World Feod Survey.
population; ten-year aritloetic avrages -nding in 1960 and 1970, and          ft. _p__      vq~Aa         ar final A.l ole - P-oteg         supply of food
.five-yerar averge ending is 1971 for most recent estimate,                       derived fruaiasoad p-ulses In grass per day.
Inat enctalt        rate f/thou  _--Anul deaths of infanta under one year sf      Death rate f/thou) ages I-4 - Annul deaths per thousand in age group
age per t.housand Ive births.                                                    1-4 y-arn, to children is this age group, suggested as an indicator of
Lifesptae        at birth (rmS -Averoge nunher of years of life remsaining          malnutrition.
at birth: ...uelly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
devlpn       onre.'Education
irons  "reproducItiontra!t'e'- Average e,nber of live daughtere a wunn will        Adi-mtd enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollncet of all Ages a
bear in her on-1 reproductive period if she soperien.... presntm age-            percen.tage of primary achosl-age population; includes children aged
specIfic fertly rates; -oco11y five:-year averages ending in 1960,               6- 11 yeasr but adjusted for different lengths of prima.ry odu-tiso,
190an     975lfor dveloping coutie.for countries with onivero1 edueatio, enrol1ent may -ased 100X
Populationdcr_th rate (7) _ total - imspound annual growth rates of mid-             sinc.a-em  pupils are balm. or shove the ofca        colae
yea   popultion for~ 1950-hO, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                             Adjusted enrollmet ratio - s-omudary school - Conputed as above,
Populat~ion groth race (7. - urbon - imputed like growth rate of total               secondary educa tion requires at least four years of appr-ned pri,osry
ppul ation  diffe re nt definitions of urban areas may affect cunpara-           instruction; pro,vides general, voctional or teacher training
bul     O   aa   nso   ostio                                                     insirction    for pupils of 12 to 17 years of .3e; coroe.podnJen
Urban population (7 of    ~ ttl) -RPtio  f urban to total population;                cou-re. am  gone-Ilby e-nlded.
diffe rent definitionn  of urban areas may affect emparability of data         Years of schooling Drowided (first and secon    l-evel) - Total y,srs of
onong countries,                                                                 schooling; at secondary lvl, voainlinotruction may be par-
Ave st-uture (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),           tially or completely esscludad.
an  etired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year pepula.tior.       Vocational enrollment (7 of secondary) - Vocationa    institutions
Age dependencyrti-Ra tio of population under 11 sod 65 and ever to                  include techeical, industrial or other progras which operate
those of ages 15 through 64.                                                     independently or as departbemnt   of secondary imatitutims.
tEononic dessnd.n.v ratio - Ritlo of population seder 15 and 65 and over          Adult literacy rate (7.1-Litarat     adIts (able to read and write) aso
to the lao      :oce in ae group 15-64 years.                                    pereantaga of totl adult population gagd 15 years and ovr.
PF  l_lann         acce"Ptor a(euulative.thoul - Cumulative unher of
acceptors of brth-controIdtevicee undet auspicen of b n.tgonal family          nJo..A9&
pann proga  since inception.                                             Prepso  pear coon (average) - Average siaber of persons per runs in
Ponily PIanine      sr   (7 . o  maried w.nO) - Percentages of married               occupied convetional dwelligsinsha        areas; dwellings e.clnde
ome   of child-hearing age (15-44 years) woh us ebirth-control devices           mom-per,arnent structores and unoccupied parts.
to all married  -une  in san  age group.                                       Occupied dwellings withu    pie     as.) -(""nPied conventional
wellings in urban ad rral ara       wihotm inside or outside piped
Employmont                                                     water facilities as~~~~~.A   percentage, of all oncupied dwell11"..
otallao      force (thm.sd) - EconmicaIly active pereon, including                 ACccesstoelect1ri1city (7 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings
aend forces and unnlyd hut exclding housewives, students, etc.;                   with electricity in liv ing quarters as percent mf total dwellings in
deiiis   in various countcries are  , sc-eparahbe.                           stban andj, rura  areas..
taorfoc  inarclue(.             gIcutraI    abrfrce (in faming,               Rurl   weli connected to elactri~ty,,CI1         Computed as above for
foresry,hosting and fishing) as perc entageuof total1 Iebor force,               rural dwelling, only.
l2on_Ployd(7 of lbor force) - Ononplyed arewuualy definad a           esn
who are able and willing to take a Job, our of a Job on a givenday,            Conaan-ption
remined out of a job, and seeking werb for a apocified ninims- period           Wianl rweeiors (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio brood-
sotfencending one week; may sot be cemparable between coubtries du. to            casts to general public per thousand of population; eocludes
differentde'finitions of momployed and source of data, e.g., aploy-              unlicensed receivers in countries and in, year   when registration of
set office statisticIs,  opie sov"eye, cmpulory unemployment insur~ance,        radiosc     s   i   fet    date for reat yesn may not be conporable
eine motz cosotnrles abotlished licensing.
looms diatribution - Percentage of private inco,e (both is caseh and kind)        passenger cars (per thou top)- Pasasenger cars conpriae motor ears
received by richest 57., richest 207X, poorest 20%, asod poorest 40% of           seating loss tha  eigtpros        excludes enbue1ec., bearaea amd
honshnlId..                                                                       militar  vaeilm
Eletrcit  (wh/t-per sap)- Annul consoption of iedmtria1, eon-
Oiltribution of land ownership - Pere.a.t.ges of land mind by wealthies             sersisl, public snd Private electricity inkiloutt hours per capita,
IM% sod poorest 10% of land owners.                                              gemarally based mu production data, without allowance for loeses in
grids but allowing for imports and esports of electricity.
Nes,I th. atd noritionlear                                                                   (ho/vt per can)I - Per capita annual nonesaption in kilngrs,so
Populaion set physician - Population divided by number of practicing                estimated fron donstic production plc met imports of aewa pritc.
physicians qualified Iron a ndicasIschool at university level.



ANNEX I
NICARAGUA                                                  Page 3 of 8
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(In million of US dollars)
Avelrage Annual
Actual     Prelimi     Projection        Growth Rate            As percentags of GDY
1970   1973      1975a      itio        1970-75   1975-oO        170         7    198
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS             Amounts in 1907-69 prices and exchange rate
Gross domestic product          812.6   897.1   1,033.6   1,362.9          4.9      5.7            99.4   102.3   102.3
Gains from term of trade         5.0   -38.7     -23.4     -31.2           -        -              o.6    -2.3    -2.3
Gross domestic income          817.7   858.4   1,010.2   1,331.7          4.3      5.7           100.0   100.0   100.0
Imports                         212.3   276.8     289.5     350.7          6.4      3.9           26.o     28.7    26.3
Exports (import capacity)        197.3  245.5     221.1     345.3          2.3      9.4            24.2    21.9    25.9
Resource gap                     15.0    17.7      68.4       5.4           -        -              1.8     6.8     o.L
Consumption                     688.2   708.8     870.6   1,040.5          4.8      3.6            84.2    86.2    78.1
Investment                      1i4s.3  180.9     208.0     296.5          7.6      7.3            17.6    20.6    22.2
Domestic savings                129.5   149.6     139.6     291.2          1.5     15.8            15.8    13.8    21.8
National savings                108.4   156.9     118.5     253.4          1.8     16.4            13.3    11.7    19.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE                  Annual data at current prices                                    As percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                   46.0    74.2     100.0     245.4         16.8     19.7            24.1    19.3    27.6
Petroleum, oil, lubricants      11.4    16.9      69.6     134.2         43.5     114.0           6.o     13.4    15.1
Other intermediates              75.4  143.9     215.0     314.1         23.3      7.9            39.5    41.6    35.4
Comsuption goods                57.9    91.2     132.9     194.2         18.1      7.9            30.4    25.7    21.9
Total merchandise imports (cif)  190.7  326.2    517.5     887.9         22.1     11.4           100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products                135.4  193.4     225.4     551.9         10.7     16.1            76.2    60.1    59.7
Manufactured goods              42.4    84.6     149.6     372.3         28.7     20.0            23.8    39.9    40.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)  177.8  278.0    375.0     924.2         16.1     19.8           100.0   100.0   100.0
Merchandise trade indices                     1967-69 - 100
Export price index              112.4  126.5     186.0     281.8         10.6      8.7              -       -       -
Irmport price index            109.0   153.6     209.4     312.5         14.0      8.3
Terms of trade index           103.1    82.4      88.8      90.2                    -
Export volume index             101.7  141.3     129.7     211.0          5.0     10.2              -
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual data at 1967-69 prices
Agriculture                      195.8  203.5     246.0     354.4          4.7      7.6            24.1    23.8    26.0
Industry                        177.1   202.9     246.0     339.3          6.8      6.6            21.8    23.8    24.9
Service                         439.7   490.7     541.6     669.2          4.3      4.3            54.1    52.4    49.1
Total                            812.6  897.1   1,033.6   1,362.9          4.9      5.7           100.0   100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                      Annual data at 1967-69 prices                                    As percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current receipts                 80.5   109.4     126.1     170.4          9.4      6.2             9.9    12.2    12.5
Current expenditure              69.1    77.2     105.4     125.4          8.8      3.5             8.5    10.2     9.2
iadgetary savings                11.4    32.2      20.7      45.0         12.7     16.8             l.      2.0     3.3
Other public sector              11.4    12.6      16.5      24.5          7.7      8.2             1.4     1.6     1.8
:'ublic sector fixed investment  39.0    44.9      47.5      79.0          4.0     10.7             .8     4.6     5.8
DETAIL  ON PUBLIC FIXED  INVEST.             1967-69;priees          LABOR FORCE AND        Total labor force  Value a       worker
1970-71i4   T'i6 tal         OUTPUT PERWORIKER 1971  Millions % Total    MRM;
Social sectors                            Mr             1
Agriculture                               16.2          7.1          Agriculture              0.279     49.6      805        50.9
Power                                     67.6         29.5          Industry                 0.080     14.2    2,158       136.6
Transport and telecommunications          70.1         30.6          Service                  0.205     36.2    2,410       152.5
Other                                     15.4          6.7            Total                  0.564    100.0    1,580       100.0
Total fixed investment                   229.1        100.0



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
NICARAGUA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(In million of US dollars at current prices)
Actual        Preliminary       Projected
1970     1973        1975        19Bo     10
SU.iNAhY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                 215.2    377.1       460.2     1,067.1   1,958.3
Iots (inludiag NFS)                231.4    425.1       602.4    1,083.8    1,990.7
Resourc  baance (,&_^)                  DZF      -00        -4.          1.         3
Interest (net)                           -6.2    -15.4       -29.5       -91.3    -147.5
Direct investment income                -22.9    -30.8       -27.9       -34.0      -54.8
dorkers remittance                         -        -           -           _          -
Current transfers(net                     6.1     57.4        13.5        14.3      21.0
Balane on curren   account              -3.      _T67y      -lU7B         -"7:7    -2MU7
Private direct investment                15.0     13.2        13.0        30.0      46.6
Public medium-and long-term loans
Disbursements                           43.7    147.0       158.0       299.3      525.0
Repayments                             -16.1    -49.3       -18.2      -164.0     -288.4
Net disbursements            27.6             9   7. 7 I      77T       173
Capital transactions n.e.i.               7.3      1.6        39.9          -          -
Change in reserves (-increase)          -10.7    -75.7        -6.6      - 37.6      -69.5                     Actual7 1973 19
LOAN COMMITMENTS   1/                                                         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE  2 /
Medium and long-term loans                                                    Public debt outs. & disb.     145.7  31.7.4  583.9
IBRD                                     -       19.5         5.o             (end of year)
IDA                                      -       20.0          -             Interest on public debt         6.8   1714    34.0
IDB                                      -       24.2        22.5           Repayment on public debt        16.1   49.3    18.2
CASEI                                    4.4      5.7        12.3            Total public debt service      22.9   66.7    52.2
Governments                              3.4     30.8        27.0
Suppliers                                o.6      1.2        12.2           Burden on exports (%) 2,'
Private Banks                           12.3     64.8        62.5
Bonds                                     -      10.0          -            Public debt service             10.6   ;7.7    11.3
Loans n.e.i.                             0.1     40.7         8.5            DS + investment income         21.3   25.9    17.4
Total medium-and long-term loans         20.8    216.9       150.0
Average terms on: 2/
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT           \ Actusr debt outst ndirx as of Dec.31,1975    Int. as % prior year DO & D     5-7    8.0     7.6
Disbursed on"y        Percent        Aimort.as % prior year DO& D    13.7   22.5     4.1
IBRD                                       52.3                 8.9
IDA                                        13.4                 2.3          IBRD debt outs. & disbursed    26.6   34.7    52.3
IDB                                        e4.3                 4.2          IBRD as % of public debt outs. 18.3   10.9     8.9
CABEI                                      32.6                 5.6         IBRD as % of public debt serv. 13.1     7.0    10.3
Governments                               118.8                20.3
Suppliers                                   4.6                 0.8          IDA debt outs. & disbursed      3.0    4.3    13.4
Private banks                             234.6                40.2          IDA as % of public debt outs.   2.1    1.3     2.3
Bonds                                      10.0                 1.7          IDA as % of public debt serv.   0.1    0.1     0.2
Others                                     93.3                16.0
Total public debt                         5   97
1/ Excludes loans repayable in domestic currencies
E Amortization payments were atypically high in 1973 and atypically low in 1975. Average annual debt service ratio for 1970-75
was 12.4 percent of exports and average annual amortiiation terms for the same period were 12.5 percent of debt outstanding
and disbursed.
December 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1977)
$ Million Amount
Loan/Credit                                              (net of cancellations)
No.     Year     Borrower         Purpose      Total      IDA 1/  Undisbulrsed
Fifteen loans and credits fully disbursed             55.9      3.6        -
532         1968    Government       Education       4.0       -        0.2
808        1972     Emp. Aguadora
de Managua        Water Supply   6.9       -        0.2
840         1972    Emp. Nacional
de Luz y Fuerza   Power         24.0       -        3.6
943         1973    Banco Central    Agriculture     8.5       -        4.2
389        1973     Government       Earthquake
Reconstruction  -       20.0       4.3
879         1973    Autoridad
Portuaria de
Corinto           Ports         11.0       -        4.8
879*        1975   Autoridad
Portuaria de
Corinto          Ports           5.0       -        5.0
1244        1976     Government       Education      11.0       -       11.0
Total                                                126.3     23.6
of which has been repaid                           32.9      0.2      _
Total now outstanding                                 93.4     23.4
Amounts sold                                 4.4
of which has been repaid                  4.2       0.2       -
Total held by Bank and IDA                            93.2     23.4
Total undisbursed                                                        33.3
*    Supplemental loan.
1/   Includes exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEIENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1977)
$ Million Amount
Year                                   Type of Business      Loan    Equity  Total
1968   Textiles Fabricate de          Cotton and
Nicaragua, S.A. (FABRITEX)     polyester fabrics      1.00     1.07    2.07
1976   Posada del Sol, S.A.            Tourism               0.70    0.20     0.90
1976   Propiedades Azucareras
de Nicaragua Limitada          Sugar                  6.50      -      6.50
Total Gross Commitment                                8.20     1.27    9.47
Less: repayments, sales
and cancellations                              0.68    1.07     1.75
Net Investments held by IFC                           7.52     0.20    7.72
Undisbursed                                           2.60     0.12    2.72
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 532    Education Project; US$4.0 million of April 10, 1968; Effective Date:
June 25, 1968; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This project is supporting government efforts to improve and expand
secondary education in major cities and upgrade primary teacher train-
ing.  Despite delays in implementation, related primarily to the 1972
earthquake in Managua and some administrative problems, 19 of the 20
project schools are now in operation and the remaining one will be
completed by the fall of 1977.
Ln. 808    Second Managua Water Supply Project; US$6.9 million of March 17, 1972;
Effective Date: April 26, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
This loan was signed on March 17, 1972 but was amended on June 6, 1973
in order to meet changed conditions in the service area resulting from
the 1972 earthquake. Almost all funds have been committed to approved
contracts for equipment, materials, and construction, and the project
is expected to be completed by June 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Ln. 840   Eighth Power Pro',ect; US$24.0 million of June 28, 1972; Effective
Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: _December :30, 1977.
The two main works of the project -- the steam power plant with
associated transmission lines, and the interconnection with Honduras--
are delayed about 14 months on average for several reasons: the
need to make repairs and install emergency facilities for power
after the earthquake, late deliveries of equipment by suppliers,
and late loan effectiveness because of delay in signing the inter-
connection contract with Honduras. The project originally appraised
to cost US$34.7 million equivalent is expected to be completed late
this year, with a substantial cost overrun amounting to U';$24.3
million. ENALUF raised tariffs 30 percent on average in February
1975, in addition to a fuel surcharge of about 50 percent which
went into effect in late 1974. The Venezuelan Investment Fund
has approved US$16.1 million loan to assist ENALUF in covering the
financing requirements arising from the cost overrun.
Ln. 943   Agricultural Credit Project; US$0.5 million of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date:  April 10, 1975; Closing Date: _December 31, 1978.
After an initial delay in loan effectiveness caused by (1) additional
time for the Borrower to sign a subsidiary loan agreement with the
first participating bank, and (2) difficulties in hiriiig a project
director, the rate of sub-loan approvals by the Project Unit and
the participating banks is satisfactory. However, considerable cost
increases are expected to reduce the number of sub--loans to be madc
under the project below appraisal estimates.
Cr. 389   Earthquake Reconstruction Project; US$20.0 million of JlL1e6   1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date:    Decen.ler 31, 19,7.
With the help of the US$5.0 million power component, the National
Power Company (ENALUF) has completed repairs to their damaged equip-
ment and is providing service to people dislccated by the earthquake.
The Water Supply Company of M4anagua (AGUADOERA), assisted by the US$2.5
million water supply component, has repaired all its storage reservoirs
and all its main distribution system. Production and distribution of
water is back to normal. No serious delays in project execution or
cost overruns were experienced for the power and water supply
components. As for the US$2.0 million education component, the four
prefabricated schools built under Part I of this component. are in full
operation. The multilateral secondary school and the technical
institute to be built under Part II are under construction. Because
of difficulties in acquiring sites, the construction of these two



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
institutions is expected to be completed only by September 1977,
one year behind schedule. Project execution on the US$8.0 million
sites and services component is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Managua I and II, the Masaya, Granada, Leon, and Jinotepe projects have
been completed.  The remaining project is Managua III where
dwelling and sanitary cores are expected to be completed by April
1977. Design standards have been reduced for many of the sites
in an effort to offset the cost escalation which has taken place
during the last two years; however, the total number of serviced
lots still has had to be reduced from the originally planned
5,500, to a total of 4,453 units at present. After some initial
delays in the submission of acceptable sub-projects by the imple-
menting agency, the industrial financing component is fully disbursed.
Ln. 1244  Second Education Project; US$11.0 million of June 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Selection of consultants for the design of all project schools is
expected to take place before the end of March 1977. Seventy
percent of the sites for the project schools (95 percent of the sites
for the first phase of the project) have been acquired. Proposals
froir consultants to provide technical assistance for the educational
aspects of the project are being reviewed.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
NICARAGUA:  NIN'IH POWER PROJi,CT (r'F
EMP'REISA NACIONAL DE L.UZ Y FUI,R,.A (EINAl.UF)
Borrower:                ENALUF
Guarantor:               Republic of Nicaragua
Amount:                  US$22.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   17 years including 3 1/2 years of grace with interest
at 8.5 percent
Project Description:    The project consist of:
A.   Interconnection
Construction of about 145 km of 230 kV single
circuit transmission line on steel towers for
interconnectLon with Costa Rica.
B.   Transmission
1.   Construction of about 9 km of double cir-
cuit and 8 km of single circuit transmission
line of 138 kV to complete the Managua ring,
and construction of about 5 km of single
circuit transmission line of 138 kV to
connect the Sebaco-Santa Rita line to the
Matagalpa substation.
2.   Construction, addition, and/or conversion of
seven substations of 138/13.8 kV or 138/25 kV,
by adding about 122 MVA transformer capaclty.
3.   Relocation of about 75 MVA transformer capacity
of 69/13.8 kV to six existing substations.
4.   Installation of eLght 69 kV ci.rcuit breakers
and of protective relaying and metering
equipment.
C.   Distribution
1.   Installation of about 65 MVAR switched and
unswitched capacitors to supply reactive
power.
2.   Installation of distribution lines, trans-
formers, and connections in low income areas.
D.   Load Dispatch Center
Construction of a national load dispatch center
and installation of equipment to operate the
Honduras-Nicaragua-Costa Rica interconnection.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
E.   Consultants' Services For:
1.   Carrying out the physical works of the
project.
2.   Preparation of a master plan for power
system expansion.
3.   Preparation of a study of alternatives and
specifications for the national load dis-
patch center.
4.   Preparation of a nation-wide tariff study
based on marginal cost pricing.
5.   Preparation and implementation of a pro-
gram to improve the Borrower's management
and administration, includ.ing a personnel
tra.ining program.
6.   Preparation of a sector organization study.
Project Cost and Financing
Requirements:
US$ (millions)
Local      Foreign    Total
New substations, additions and
improvements                                        1.7          3.9        5.6
Transmission lLnes                                     0.3         o.6        0.9
Capacitor installations                                0.1         0.8        0.9
Distribution in low-income areas                       2.6         1.7        4.3
Interconnection with Costa Rica                        2.4         4.4        6.8
National load dispatch center                          0.5         2.6         3.1
Land and land rights                                   0                      0
Subtotal                                          8.1        14.0       22.1
Engineering and administration                         1.0         1.3        2.3
Training                                               0.2         0.2        0.4
Studies                                                0.8         1.7        2.5
Subtotal                                          2.0         3.2        5.2
Total base line cost                             10.1        17.2       27.3
Contingencies - physical                               o.4         0.5        0.9
- price                                 1.5          2.7        4.2
Total project cost                               12.0        20.4       32.4
Financial charges                                  -          3.8        3.8
Financing required                              12.0         24.2       36.2



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing Plan of the Project
US$ (million)
Local     Foreign     Total
IBRD proposed loan                               -         22.0      22.0
Internal cash contribution                     12.0         2.2      14.2
Total                                     12.0       24.2       36.2
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions, IBRD Fiscal Years)
1977     1978     1979      1980     1981
Annual                        1.5      7.3      8.4       4.1      0.7
Cummulative                   1.5      R.8     17.2      21.3     22.0
Financing Plan 1976-1980 Program
US$ (m.illions)             %
Requirements of Funds (excluding
changes in working capital)
Construction Program:
Existing Projects                             50.2                   17.5
Proposed Ninth Project                        32.4                   11.3
Future Projects                              148.1                   51.7
Ongoing and Future Works
("Normal Expansion")                        19.1                    6.7
Studies and Resource Investigation             9.9                    3.4
259.7                   90.6
Interest during Construction                  27.0                    9.4
Total Requirements                           286.7                  100.0
Sources of Funds (including
Changes in working capital)
Gross Internal Cash Generation                 149.7                   52.2
Less:  Debt Service                         (68.6)                  (23.9)
Net Internal Cash Generation                 81.1                    28.3
Customer Contributtions                       7.3                     2.5
Less: Increase in Non-Cash Working
Capital                              (21.8)                   (7.6)
Net Internal Contribution to Expansion       66.6                    23.2



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
US$ (millions)              %
Borrowings:
Existing Loans                                  47.6
Proposed IBRD Loan                              22.0
Future Loans                                   134.1
Total Borrowings                            203.7                  71.1
Other Sources:
Customer Deposits                                3.6                   1.3
Government Grants                               16.3                   5.7
Less:  Increase in other current assets           (3.5)                 (1.3)
Total Sources                               286.7                 100.0
Procurement Arrangements:           International competitive bidding (ICB) for
all Bank-financed works and equipment except
for (i) special imported protective relaying
and metering equipment for substations amount-
ing to about US$0.35 million which is not
suitable for ICB because of need for standard-
ization and (ii) other small imported equip-
ment amounting to US$0.2 million required in
small quantities. In accordance with the
Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incen-
tives for Industrial Development, manufacturers
from the Central American Common Market, in-
cluding Nicaragua, would be allowed a regional
preference of 15 percent of the CIF price or
the CACM preferential tariff (whLch is 50
percent of the applicable import duty) which-
ever is lower.
Rate of Return:                     13.1 percent (on 1976-1981 Investment program).
Appraisal Report:                   1254-NI dated March 18, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
NICARAGUA
NINTH POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation
(i)  Feasibility Study                           - November 1975
(b) Project Preparation Agency
Empresa Nacional de Luz Y Fuerza (ENALUF)
(c) Preparation - Preappraisal
(i) First Formal request for project financing - May 1975
(ii)  First Bank Mission to consider project      -  October 15, 1975
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure                       - January 14, 1976
(e)  Negotiations Completed                            - December 3, 1976
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                        -  June 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed to:
(a) Automatically apply the fuel adjustment clause (paragraph 23).
(b) Prepare a study to determine the long-term marginal cost of service
(paragraph 23).
(c)  Prepare a sector organization study (paragraph 24).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
(d)   Prepare a long-term master plan for the development of power sector
(paragraph 24).
(e)   Appoint a General 'oordinator to assume principal responsibility
for the day-to-day management of technical and financial affairs
(paragraph 37). (Fhe General Coordinator was appointed March 7, 1977).
(f)   Establish a training unit (paragraph 37).
(g)   Develop by June 1977 and put into effect by December 1977, a training
program (paragraph 37).
(h)   Appoint, before effectiveness, procurement and training experts under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 37).
(i)   Agree with the Bank on terms of reference for additional experts
proposed by the General Coordinator, before effectiveness (-Oaragraph
37).
(j)   Review its existing insurance coverage as a first step toward providing
adequate protecticn of ENALUF's properties against earthquakte damage
(paragraph 37). (ENEE has supplied the report of an insurance expert,
and it is currently being studied in the Bank.)
(k)   Submit a detailed report showing pertinent details on the areas selected
for the distribution component as a condition of disbursement (par- 53).
(1)   Maintain a rate of return of at least 8.5 percent on annually revalued
average net fixed assets in operation (paragraph 42.)
(m)   Retain all its earnings for reinvestment in new facilities until the
project is completed (paragraph 42).
(n)   Take all necessary action to maintain the total amount of its accounts
receivables in arrears below 110 percent of the total average monthly
billing corresponding to the 90 days immediately preceding the date of
calculation (paragraph 43).
(o)   Have its account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank (paragraph 43).
(p)   Seek prior Bank agreement to new long-term borrowing whenever net
revenues are less than 1.5 times the maximum debt-service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year (paragraph 44).
(q)   Initiate new investments costing more than 1 percent of the value
of gross fixed assets in operation only if the Bank has received
satisfactory evidence that such expansion is economically justified
and ENALIF has adequate financial resources for carrying out the
expansion (paragraph 44).



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
(r) Contract consultants to assist in design, procurement and construction
supervision of project works and in carrying out the project studies
(paragraph 45).
(s) Relend to the National Planning Directorate (NPD) funds allocated under
the loan for a sector organization study (paragraph 45).
(t) Consult with the Bank on measures to improve the rate of new connections
of the distribution component if this rate is lower than expected
(paragraph 51).
(u) As conditions of disbursement for the interconnection component, present
satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the Republic of Nicaragua and
Costa Rica have made legal arrangements for establishing the interconnection
and that ENALUF and ICE have an interconnection contract; provide assurances
to the Bank of availability of the financing necessary for the Costa Rican
portion of the interconnection (paragraph 53).
(v) Not to proceed with the preparation of bid documents for the distribution
component unitl receiving written notification from the Bank that it finds
such part technically and economically acceptable (paragraph 53).
(w) Submit the feasibility study of load dispatch center as a
condition of disbursement (paragraph 53).
The Government has agreed that:
(a) It will take the necessary action to enable the Borrower to adjust its
tariffs and maintain a rate of return of at least 8.5 percent
(paragraph 42).
(b) It will issue waivers of any provision of the shipping law which would
lead to unnecessary delay or to freight charges that are higher than those
regularly charged by shipping lines or maritime conferences (paragraph 46).






IBRD 3697 R
1  .LA                                   .        I        SESEPrM R 1976
H ON D U R A S 5
NICARAGUA
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA                                    (                                      .
MAIN    POWER      SYSTEM                                c;'t.                        O M. A R C A
|POWER|  SUBSTATIONS  TRANSMISSION LINES 1                                                DE V Ca0O 'E E L C A eo
PLANTSI  S9 1Y  138 kv~ 230 kv  69 kv  138 kv  230 k|1
I  _   f A  *      -    R  PROJECT                             :.  .
. ~    f _ .   at   -:--J   UNDER RCONSTRUCTION
| * ltA As           -       EXISTING                /       I
*            A |-| SffEJ    IFUTURE   ,6                           .                                     /
,  <  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~t   t ~~~~~~~~~~CIrEBiAS/
_u.  .......... DEPARTMENT  BOUNOARIES   2       N                                                          U *De eli
5-*-.INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            v/ 
/        \,  J  I  N /0 TJ IE   G   A .                          I
N U E V A* ........
SANTA CLARA
OCOTAL   S E G O V I A
,OMC O  vO JAL JGUNA  1 '  .                     E    l   A    Y   A
> <g  t z  E$9 L     AToSonloln,bo,v ToSato
.                                                                SV) H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T --
) I P N TE R C C N > ]t/ N  C T '   I 'RA N   /   p U MaiasI7 A   uN>
TOOA ,i .wH IO N  TA S_*,AM .  o S oEsLesr, NMitt
f~~~~~~~~ (                 H D O                                                                            A GCI F/ O A   \ 
GA        MATIGJN MIGULLITO A                                l       \>  CE  ,
I  ANDEGA                                                     OPALAROND.
0.. . .   S A N T  B A R A R  3 D  A N 5 0I       H  , 5d  ',  .
I GASD;S SUINNE  N LPAI1L 0..
MANAGOTA RIND
ly~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RT                     eLAd EPemRArtNZA                           IL.~ Eh. " 15.  7A-1 
NADA              OY/AI        _               1n
PA CIFIC  0 CIIA Al                                                                       .. . . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90   0110 
IAI   JFN                                                                       rA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C J
DEL ~~~~~~~L NAN         -'COROCITC) ~ ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~     C RAIl
Alk-g'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dfr                       '< 5R R.I    0
COSTAC ARICAG UA                                                                 ~
rICh  I)~~I'I Inn.. Il on  0,~~ IIlCp .120   30  4
lIOnklUee*o,Idl,ICAIIOCCO  a,  eh*              C?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA 



