CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1402 NI
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Ninth Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 22, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF
NICARAGUA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dollars
($22,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guar-
antee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carry-
ing out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrover
to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of it s political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange as-
sets held by any institution performing the functions of a cen-
tral bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall take all such action
as shall be necessary to cause DPN to carry out Part F of the
Project in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) The Guarantor shall: (i) take all such action as shall
be necessary to enable the Borrower to make such adjustments in
its rates for the sale of electricity as are necessary to provide
the Borrower with revenues sufficient to meet the obligations set
forth in Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) cause the
Instituto to act in respect of any application of the Borrower for
the setting and adjustment of such rates within a period of not
more than 60 days after receipt of such application.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall:
(a) cause the Instituto to enable the Borrower to adjust
automatically its rates for the sale of electricity in order to
cover additional operating expenses resulting from: (i) variations
in the price paid by the Borrower for fuel (other than diesel fuel
oil) for the Borrower's steam-electric plants; and (ii) variations
in interconnection rates; and
(b) cause the Instituto to review with the Bank and the Bor-
rover, in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank, a
new rate structure of the Borrower based on the results of the
rate study to be conducted under Part E (3) of the Project, and,
in the event that the Borrower and the Instituto shall agree to
put a new rate structure into effect, the Guarantor shall cause
the Instituto to review with the Bank a timetable for causing the
new rate structure to become effective.
Section 3.04. The following Sections of the following spe-
cified prior agreements between the Bank and the Guarantor are
hereby amended to read the same as Sections 3.02 (b) and 3.03
of this Guarantee Agreement:
(a) Section 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement (Rio Tuma Hydro-
electric Project) dated June 22, 1960;
(b) Section 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement (Sixth Power
Project) dated October 5, 1966;


﻿(c) Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement (Seventh Power
Project) dated June 21, 1968; and
(    Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement
(Eighth Power Project) dated June 28, 1972.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, through the appropriate
agency or agencies of the Guarantor, issue waivers, upon applica-
tion by the Borrower, of any provision of the shipping laws of
the Guarantor which would lead to unnecessary delay in the trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed by the Loan, or which
would lead to freight charges for such goods that are higher than
those regularly charged by shipping lines or maritime conferences.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pdblico
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Repfblica de Nicaragua
Ministerio de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pdblico
Palacio Nacional
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
MINIHACIENDA
Managua, Nicaragua
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Guillermo Sevilla - Sacasa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


