CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1402 NI
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Ninth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
Dated April 22, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA (hereinafter called the
Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ley Constitutiva" means the Ley Constitutiva de la
Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza of the Guarantor, dated Octo-
ber 14, 1954, as amended up to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "ICE" means Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad, an
instrumentality of the Republic of Costa Rica engaged in the elec-
tricity business;
(c) "Instituto" means the Instituto Nacional de Energ!a
Elfctrica, an agency of the Guarantor established by the Ley
Creadora del Instituto, of June 20, 1969;


﻿-3-
(d) "Interconnection Contract" means an agreement to be
concluded between ICE and the Borrower, setting forth the rights
and obligations of each party to establish and maintain an elec-
trical interconnection of their systems, as such agreement may be
amended from time t( time, and such term includes all annexes,
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Interconnection
Contract;
(e)  "Interconnection rates" means the rates for electricity
paid by the Borrower under the Interconnection Contract or under
a similar contract concluded between the Borrower and Empresa
Nacional de Energfa Elctrica, an instrumentality of the Republic
of Honduras;
(f) "General Coordinator" means the Coordinador General
of the Borrower, whose terms esf reference are contained in a
resolution of the Borrover's Consejo Directivo dated December 1,
1976;
(g) "Executive President" means the Presidente Ejecutivo of
the Borrower, as that position is defined in the Ley Constitutiva;
(h)  "DPN" means Direcci6n de Planificaci6n Nacional, the
executing agency of the Consejo de Planificaci6n Nacional, an
instrumentality of the Republic of Nicaragua; and
(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DPN pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of inter-
est and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates spec-
ified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on be-
half of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date
set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B,
C, D and E of the Project, and shall take whatever steps are
necessary to enable DPN to carry out Part F of the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to DPN that portion of the
proceeds of the Loan that is specified in Category (7) (c) of
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and DPN, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including,
inter alia, the following requirements: (i) that DPN shall carry
out Part F of the Project in accordance with the practices set
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section; (ii) that the qualifica-
tions, experience, terms of reference, and terms and conditions
of employment of the consultants to be employed by DPN shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) that the timetable for carry-
ing out P%rt F of the Project shall be approved by the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall perform all of its obligations and
shall enforce all of its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and under the Interconnection Contract in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accom-
plish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Interconnection
ContreLt or any provision thereof.


﻿Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrover in supervising
the construction and the installation of equipment for the Proj-
ect, and in carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ engineering, financial, management, and other public util-
ity consultants whose qualifications, experience, terms of refe-
rence, and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿--8-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Proj-
ect and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and k ii) shall fur-
nish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
(d) During the carrying out of Part C (2) of the Project,
the Borrower shall consult periodically with the Bank concerning
the appropriate measures to be taken for improving, if necessary,
the rate of new service connections of low-income consumers in
accordance with performance indicators to be agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be


﻿required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for pur-
poses related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all reasonable meas-
ures to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project
are carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Sectibn 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out and complete the rate study under Part E (3)
of the Project in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the
Bank, and shall, within 6 months of the completion of such study,
review with the Bank and with the Instituto the results of such
study; and
(b) in the event that the Borrower and the Instituto shall
agree to introduce a new rate structure of the Borrower based on
the results of such study, the Borrower shall review with the Bank
a timetable for putting such new rate structure into effect.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to
reduce the cost of shipping goods financed by the Loan, including,
inter alia, seeking waivers from appropriate agencies of the Guar-
antor of any provisions of the shipping laws of the Guarantor which
would lead to unnecessary delay in the transportation and delivery
of goods financed by the Loan, or which would lead to freight
charges for such goods that are higher than those regularly charged
by shipping lines or maritime conferences.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks, including the risk
of earthquake, and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
(b) Without limiting the obligations set forth in paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, not later than 10 days
after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank the report of a
competent insurance expert evaluating the adequacy of the Bor-
rover's insurance coverage. After reviewing such report with the
Bank, the Borrower shall take all necessary action to provide
adequate insurance coverage in conformity with such report and
with the recommendations of the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
existence and right to carry on its operations and shall, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all necessary steps that
are required to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, equipment and property, and from time to
time make all necessary repairs or renewals thereof, in accor-
dance with sound engineering and public utility practices.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times manage its af-
fairs, carry on its operations and maintain its financial position
in accordance with sound business and public utility practices.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall employ a General Coordinator, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Executive Presi-
dent in the management of the Borrower's technical and financial
affairs.
(b) Before appointing any person to the position of General
Coordinator, the Borrower shall inform the Bank concerning such
person's qualifications and experience, and shall allow the Bank
a reasonable time to comment before making such appointment.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
not later than June 30, 1977, or such other date as shall be ac-
ceptable to the Bank, a detailed plan, acceptable to the Bank,
for establishing the personnel training program under Part E (5)
of the Project.
(b) As part of the personnel training program described in
paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower shall establish, not later
than December 31, 1977, or such other date as shall be acceptable
to the Bank, and shall maintain thereafter, a Training Unit for
management, supervisory, and technical personnel. The Training
Unit shall be under the direction of a full-time director, whose
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as disclosed in writing to the Bank.


﻿- 13 -
(b) The Borrmver undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase there-
of, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of
such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not, until the Project is completed, undertake,
or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any major expansion
project unless it shall have first furnished to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that (i) such expansion project is eco-
nomically justified; and (ii) the Borrower will have adequate
financial resources for the carrying out of such expansion proj-
ect.


﻿(b) For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion
project" shall be deemed to be a project or acquisition of new as-
sets the aggregate cost of which shall be in excess of the equiva-
lent of one per cent (1%) of gross fixed assets in operation.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall not, without the prior con-
sent of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
its major assets required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations, including the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the Borrower's net
revenue for the fiscal year or for a later twelve consecutive
months' period immediately preceding the date of such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year
on all the Borrower's debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt except debt in-
curred in the ordinary course of business and
maturing by its terms less than one year after
its incurrence;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a loan contract or
agreement providing for such debt or, in the
case of a guarantee of debt, on the date of ex-
ecution and delivery of the contract providing
for such guarantee;


﻿- 15 -
(iii) the term "net revenue" means gross operating
revenue, adjusted to take account of rates in
effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though such rates were not in effect during
the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenue relates, less all operating and
administrative expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, or any payments in lieu
thereof, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and
other charges on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in an-
other currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower,
at the time such valuation is made, for the pur-
pose of servicing such debt or, if such other
currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by
the Bank.
(c) The following Sections of the following specified prior
agreements between the Bank and the Borrower are hereby amended to
read the same as this Section:


﻿- 16 -
(i) Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement (Rio Tuma
Hydroelectric Project) dated June 22, 1960;
(ii) Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement (Sixth Power
Project) dated October 5, 1966;
(iii) SecticA 5.08 of the Loan Agreement (Seventh Power
Project) dated June 21, 1968; and
(iv) Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement (Eighth Power
Project) dated June 28, 1972.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall, from time to time, take
all necessary action to maintain the total amount of its accounts
receivable in arrears below 110% of the total average monthly bill-
ing corresponding to the 90 days immediately preceding the date of
such calculation, such calculation to be made at least once a month.
For purposes of this Section, "total amounts of accounts receivable
in arrears" means the total amount of accounts receivable on account
of billings for electrical service, less the total amount of such
billings for the previous thirty days but including any outstanding
promissory notes received on account of unpaid billings and before
deducting any reserve for bad debts.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken, from time to time, all
such steps as shall be required to make such adjustments in the
Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity as shall be necessary
to provide the Borrower with revenue sufficient to cover all
operating and administrative expenses, including taxes and levies,


﻿- 17 -
if any, adequate maintenance and depreciation, and yield a rate
of return on the average value of its total net fixed assets in
operation of at least eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per
annum.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the rate of return in respect of any fiscal year
will be calculated by relating the Borrower's
net income from operations for that year to the
average value of the total net fixed assets in
operation during that fiscal year;
(ii) the term "net income from operations" means gross
operating revenue, less all operating and admin-
istrative expenses including adequate maintenance,
straight-line depreciation, taxes and levies,
if any, or any payments in lieu thereof, but
without deduction of interest or other charges on
debt;
111i the term "total net fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of such assets, as revalued
at least once every calendar year in accordance
with methods of revaluation acceptable to the
Bank, less accumulated depreciation; and
(iv) the "average value" of the total net fixed assets
in operation will be determined by adding the
value of the total net fixed assets in operation


﻿- 18 -
at the end of a fiscal year to the value of the
total net fixed assets in operation at the begin-
ning of that year and dividing the total by two.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary or advisable to cause its rates for the sale of elec-
tricity to be adjusted automatically to cover additional operating
expenses resulting from: (i) variations in the price paid by it for
fuel (other than diesel fuel oil) for its steam-electric plants; and
(ii) variations in interconnection rates.
Section 5.10. The following Sections of the following specified
prior agreements between the Bank and the Borrower are hereby amended
to read the same as Sections 5.08 and 5.09 of this Agreement:
(i) Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement (Rio Tuma
Hydroelectric Project) dated June 22, 1960;
(ii) Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement (Sixth Power
Project) dated October 5, 1966;
(iii) Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement (Seventh Power
Project) dated June 21, 1968; and
(iv) Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement (Eighth Power
Project) dated June 28, 1972.


﻿- 19 -
Section 5.11. The Borrower shall revalue its fixed assets
at least once every calendar year in accordance with methods of
revaluation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower undertakes to retain all of its earnings for reinvestment
in its facilities until the Project is completed.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Le Constitutiva shall
have been changed in such a way as to impair the ability of the
Borrower to carry out the Project or to perform its other obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-21-
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has retained experts and consultants for
procurement and training whose qualifications, experience and
terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) the Borrower has established terms of reference, accept-
able to the Bank, for experts and consultants in areas which have
been identified by the General Coordinator as needing improvement.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, such areas shall include
cost estimating, construction management, financial control, and
budgeting.
Section 7.02. The date July 26, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza
Managua, D.N.
Nicaragua, C.A.
Cable address:
ENALUF
Managua, Nicaragua


﻿- 23 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE LUZ Y FUERZA
By /s/ Luis Manuel Debayle
Authorized Representative


﻿- 2~4 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and mate-                       )
rials:
(a) For Part A of          4,4oo,ooo     )
the Project                         )
(b) For Part B of          4500,000     )   100% of foreign
the Project                         )    expenditures or
92% of ex-factory
(c) For Part C (1)           8oo,ooo     )   price of locally
of the Project                      )   manufactured
)    goods
(d) For Part C (2)         1,500,000     )
of the Project                      )
(e) For Part D of          2,800,000     )
the Project                         )
(2) Equipment, materials          200,000         75% of local
and associated ser-                           expenditures
vices for Part C                              (representing
(2) of the Project                           the estimated
foreign expen-
diture component)
for locally pro-
cured goods


﻿- 25 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(3) Consultants' ser-
vices:
(a) For Parts A, B,        3,100,000       100%
C, D, and Parts
E (1) to E (4)
of the Project
(b) For Part E (5)          250,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                         expenditures
(c) For Part F of           150,000        100%
the Project
(4) Interest and other         1,800,000        Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
June 30, 1979
(5) Unallocated                2,500,000
TOTAL      22,000,000


﻿- 26 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $800,000, may be made
in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1976;


﻿- 27 -
(b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, in respect of
payments for Part A of the Project until: (i) evidence satisfactory
to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that (A) the
Republic of Costa Rica and the Republic of Nicaragua have made
legal arrangements, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, for the purpose of establishing the basis of intergovernmental
cooperation on which the interconnection of the electrical systems
of the Borrower and ICE shall be established and maintained, and
(B) an Interconnection Contract on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank has been duly executed and delivered and authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action,
and has become effective; (ii) there shall have been furnished
to the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of
counsel acceptable to the Bank showing that the Interconnection
Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto, that it constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms, and that it has become effective; and (iii) the
Bank, after receiving the results of a study being conducted by
the Borrower, and after receiving assurances regarding the availa-
bility of funds for the Costa Rican portion of the interconnection,
has notified the Borrower that the Bank agrees that Part A of the
Project is technically and economically acceptable and that suffi-
cient funds on reasonable terms shall be available for the Costa
Rican portion of the interconnection;
(c) in respect of payments for Part C (2) of the Project,
until the Bank, after receiving the results of a study being con-
ducted by the Borrower, has notified the Borrower that the Bank
agrees that Part C (2) of the Project is technically and economi-
cally acceptable; and


﻿- 28 -
(d) in respect of payments for Part D of the Project, until
the Bank, after receiving the results of a study being conducted
by the Borrower, has notified the Borrower that the Bank agrees
that Part D of the Project is technically and economically accept-
able.
5.   Notithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Interconnection
Construction of about 145 km of 230 kV single circuit trans-
mission line on steel towers for interconnection with Costa
Rica.
Part B:   Transmission
1.   Construction of about 9 km of double circuit and about
8 km of single circuit transmission line of 138 kV to
complete the Managua ring, and construction of about
5 km of single circuit transmission line of 138 kV
to the Matagalpa substation.
2.   Construction, addition, and/or conversion of about seven
substations of 138/13.8 kV or 138/25 kV5 by adding about
122 MVA transformer capacity.
3.   Relocation of about 75 MVA transformer capacity of
69/13.8 kV to six existing substations.
4.   Installation of about eight 69 kV circuit breakers and
of protective relaying and metering equipment.


﻿- 30 -
Part C:   Distribution
1.   Installation of about sixty-five NWAR switched and un-
switched capacitors to supply reactive power.
2.   Installation of distribution lines, transformers, and
connections in low income areas.
Part D:   Load dispatch center
Construction of a national load dispatch center, and instal-
lation of equipment to operate the Honduras-Nicaragua-Costa
Rica interconnections.
Part E:   Preparation of Plans and Studies;
Organization and Management
1.   The preparation of a master plan for power sytem ex-
pansion.
2.   The preparation of a study of alternatives and specifica-
tions for the national load dispatch center.
3.   The preparation of a study, based on marginal cost pric-
ing, of rate structures for the public supply of elec-
tricity in the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿- 31 -
4. The preparation and carrying out of a program to im-
prove the Borrower's management and administration,
including, financial control, construction management,
budgeting, and personnel management.
5.   The preparation and carrying out of a personnel train-
ing program.
Part F:   Sector organization study
Preparation of a sector organization study by consultants
under the direction of DPN.
*         * P                e
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1980.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1981
through   August 1, 1993                     815,000
On February 1, 1994                               810,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 33 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Nut more than three years
before maturity                         1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿-34-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the purchase
of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   The Borrower shall not proceed with the preparation of bid
documents for Parts A, C (2) and D of the Project until the Bank,
after receiving the results of studies to be conducted by the
Borrower, has notified the Borrower that the Bank agrees that such
Parts of the Project are technically and economically acceptable.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the following equipment may be placed through
negotiations with suppliers:
1.   Imported special and standardized protective relaying and
metering equipment, at an estimated cost of about $350,000, to
be installed in substations.


﻿- 35 -
2.   Other items of imported equipment, totalling in the aggregate
about $200,000 equivalent, which will be required in small quan-
tities.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Central American Ccmon Market Manufacturers
For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated
services, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance
with the following rules:
1.   The term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the member countries
of the Central American Common Market for goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the
Bank) in such territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a
"Non-Central American Bid".
2.   The bid price under a Central American Bid shall be the sum
of the following amounts:
(a) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(b) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
3.   For the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American Bid
with any Central American Bid, the bid price under a Non-Central
American Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:


﻿- 36 -
(a) the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(b) half the amount of any taxes on the importation of such
goods into the territories of the Guarantor which generally apply
to non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (a) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and
(c) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods from their port of entry to the place of their use or instal-
lation.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 37 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to furnishing
to the Bank the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to furnishing to the Bank the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


