Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4397-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 26, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Approximate Selling Rate
at the Official Parallel Market
Official Rate                     (Since January 1983)
US$1.00  =  J$1.78                   US$1.00  =  J$2.60
US$0.56  =  J$1.00                   US$0.38  =  J$l.
US$56.18 =  J$100.                   US$38.46 =  J$100.
ACRONYMS
AFI       Approved Financial Intermediary of NDB
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica (Central Bank)
CARICOM   Caribbean Economic Community
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
DFI       Development Finance Institution
DFC       Development Finance Company
ECU       European Currency Units
EDF       Export Development Fund
EIB       European Investment Bank
GOJ       Government of Jamaica
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICICI     Industrial Credit and Investment Corp. of India
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
JNIP      Jamaica National Investment Promotion, Ltd.
jECIC     Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation
JDB       Jamaica Development Bank
NDB       National Development Bank
P]C       Premier Investment Corporation
RF        Rehabil{tation Fund
SAPR      Staff Appraisa' Report
SIFCO     Small Industries Finance Co.
TA        Technical Assistance
USAID     U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Jamaica: April 1 - March 31
National Development Bank: October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.      LOAN SUMMARY ..       ....................................    1
II.      SECTORAL ANALYSIS ....................... . ............ .    3
A.  The Industrial Sector ..........................          3
- Manufacturing - Recent Developments .........         3
- Industrial Policies .........................         3
- Exports .....................................         4
- Prospects for Industrial Exports & Investment         5
B.  Industrial Financing ........ ...................         6
- Financial Institutions                   ..    6
- Instruments of Monetary Policy        .     .         8
- Structure of Interest Rates .................         8
- Demand for Investment Financing        .     .        9
III.      PROJECT ANALYSIS ..................................          11
A. Background                    ..                          11
B.  Project Objectives and General Composition .....         11
-  Objective ..................................        11
- Project Composition ..12
C. Project Description .                 .                   13
- National Development Bank .13
- Approved Financial Intermediaries (AFI)              14
- Subprojectsb .       ...                             15
C. Cost Estimates and Financing .15
D.  Technical Assistance.        ...                         16
E. Benefits and Risks,.... . ... ............... ....        17
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission comprised of
Messrs. J. Mirski aiVd C. Schmidt, and of an industrial sectoral mission led
by Mr. E. Bolte, all of the Development and Finance Division, LAC Regional
Office, which visited Jamaica in December 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
IV.      LOAN IMPLEMENTATION   ............   ....................  18
A. Loan Terms and Execution Responsibility   . .          18
B. Use of the Loan Proceeds ........................    18
C.  Loan Commitment and Disbursement Forecast  ..         19
D. Procurement                   ..                       20
E.  Disbursements   .    ....... . ............. .        20
F. Audit and Reporting Requirements ................    21
V.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............    22
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - NDB - Policies and Strategy
Annex 2 - NDB - Operating Criteria
Annex 3 - NDB - Financial Projections
Annex 4 - Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
MAP



JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                Government of Jamaica (GOJ).
Executing Institution:  National Development Bank (NDB).
Amount:                  US$15.1 million including capitalized front-end fee
(0.25%) of US$37,656.
Terms:                   17 years, including 4 years of grace, with the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         (a) GOJ to NDB:  on the same terms but in Jamaican
dollars (J$);
(b) NDB to Approved Financial Intermediaries (AFI):
minimum 12% p.a. plus 1% one-time commitment fee
(c) Approved Financed Intermediary (AFI) to
beneficiaries: minimum 15% p.a. (retaining a 3%
spread) plus up to 2% one-time commitment fee. NDB
and AFI subloans will be for 3 to 10 years, including
a grace period on principal repayments of up to 3
years.
Applicable Exchange      Subsidiary loan from GOJ to NDB will be at the
Rate and Exchange        official exchange rate;  NDB's subloans will be
Risk:                    denominated in J$ based on the parallel market
exchange rate at the time each subproject is approved
by NDB. The full exchange risk will be assumed by
GOJ.
Loan Description:        Bank Loan will assist in financing of the foreign
exchange component of subloans extended by NDB to
AFIs for onlending to manufacturing, agro-industrial,
tourist and mining enterprises. AFIs will be
expected to evaluate and supervise their projects and
bear the entire commercial risk. NDB will review all
projects submitted for its financing, and be
responsible for the quality of appraisals. Because
NDB is a new institution there may be some unforseen
problems and delays during the initial period of the
system's operations. In the absence of previous
experience no specific economic rate of return (ERR)
can be given, but no subproject over US$250,000 will
be financed under the Bank loan if its ERR is below
12%. NDB will require calculation of financial
internal rate of return (IRR) for all subprojects
exceeding J$100,000 (US$38,500) and ERR for
sub-projects above J$500,000 (about US$196,000).



- 2 -
Estimated Cost and Financial         Foreign       Locall/  Total       _
Plan:                                              (in US$ million)
NDB                                              2.9         2.9      65.0
World Bank (incl. front-end fee)  15.1                      15.1      12.5
Beneficiaries                         _          5.2         5.2      22.5
15.1        8.1        23.2    100.0
Estimated Disbursement:                          Bank Fiscal Years
…--------------- (US$ million)---------------
FY84      FY85       FY86       FY87       FY88
Annual                         0.2        4.1        7.5       3.1        0.2
Cumulative                     0.2        4.3       11.8      14.9       15.1
(incl. front-end fee)
Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Risks:                   There is a risk of delays in subloan processing and
disbursements which could be caused by lower than
anticipated subloan demand resulting from unfavorable
world economic conditions and the inexperience of NDB
and the AFIs. Some of the risks of such delays would
be minimized by the close supervision and advice an
assistance which the Bank staff intends to provide
and the technical assistance and training that may be
financed by the Bank and other sources. The risks
associated with the project are acceptable.
Final Commitment: December 31, 1985.
Final Disbursement: December 31, 1987.
1/     Converted into US$ at the parallel market rate of J$2.60 to US$1.00.



- 3 -
II. SECTORAL ANALYSIS
A. The Industrial Sector
Manufacturing - Recent Developments
2.01       During the long recession of 1973 to 1980, industrial activities
declined by over 30% which is substantially above the decline of the overall
economy. Consequently, the share of manufacturing in GDP fell during this
period from about 18% to 15%. During the period 1974-1980 the
industrialization of Jamaica suffered a serious reversal. The economic
policies which were in part responsible for these adverse developments are
currently being revised and the industrial sector has recently returned to
growth, although still at low rates of 0.4% in 1981 and 3% in 1982.
2.02       The past industrial decline has not changed the main character of
Jamaica's manufacturing sector which remains largely organized in medium size
factories. The number of registered factories has remained practically
unchanged since 1973 at about 1,250, but as factory employment declined from
a peak of about 55,000 in 1974 to 44,000 in 1980, average employment per
factory fell from 43 workers in 1974 to 36 in 1980. Only a few plants which
operate generally in food, beverages and tobacco processing have a work force
of over 500. These sub-sectors, together with footwear manufacturing, oil
refining, tire manufacturing and production of packaging materials also have
the highest degree of industrial concentration with a small number of
enterprises controlling major shares of domestic market production.
2.03       The share of manufacturing employment declined from 12.5% of the
employed labor force in 1973 to about 10.5% in 1980 when manufacturing
employed less than 80,000 workers. Most of the reduction of manufacturing
employment occurred in the registered factory sector which cut employment by
11,000 workers. As the economy recovered in 1981 and 1982 unemployment
declined slightly from 28% in 1980 to 27% in April 1982. During 1981 and
1982 about 15,000 manufacturing jobs were added, largely in the registered
factories, and industrial employment in 1982 was above the level reached
before the recession. Labor productivity continued to fall in 1981 and 1982,
while real wages seem to have stabilized.
Industrial Policies
2.04       Trade Policies are of crucial importance in Jamaica for achieving
sustained industrial growth. Effective protection of the domestic market is
high and prices of some consumers goods (e.g., shirts and footwear) are more
than 100% above world market levels. Jamaica is a member of the Caribbean
Economic Community (CARICOM) and applies CARICOM's common external tariff
system to imports originating in third countries. In general, tariff levels
are moderate, varying on average between 15% for raw materials and 45% for
consumer goods, and duty exemptions are widespread. Most duty exemptions are
for imports of raw materials and capital goods which has contributed to
creating a capital intensive and import dependent industrial sector.



- 4 -
2.05       Quantitative import restrictions are the most important instrument
in Jamaica's protection system. Imports are subject to licensing and are
categorized into restricted and non-restricted items. The restricted list
includes about 240 important domestic products that may be imported only
under special licenses issued after detailed analysis by government
institutions. This list is being gradually reduced and is to be eliminated
by 1985. Until January 1983, the process of granting import licenses was
extremely complex and without consistent criteria. Presently, a revised
import licensing system is in operation which provides Jamaican industry with
automatic licenses for all except a few restricted production inputs.
2.06       Until early 1983, the scarcity of foreign exchange and the related
cumbersome import licensing system constituted serious obstacles to
industrial investment and production. Industrial importers of raw materials
and capital goods competed for a declining share of licenses funded with
foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Since the establishment of
the parallel market in early 1983, the uncertainty about the availability of
foreign exchange has practically been removed. Industrial inputs can be
imported with foreign exchange certificates purchased in the parallel
exchange market and automatic licenses are provided for all unrestricted
goods. While imported inputs are now considerably more costly in terms of
domestic currency, their availability should have a positive effect on
planning of production and investments in manufacturing.
2.07       Industrial Incentives in Jamaica consist mainly of import duty
exonerations on capital goods and corporate tax exemptions for up to ten
years. They are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and
Jamaica National Investment Promotion, Ltd. (JNIP) and decisions for granting
the incentives are made by an inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the
Prime Minister. The continued high rate of registration for incentives (20
in 1982) is an indication of their effectiveness in encouraging industrial
investments. However, the duty exemptions have an undesirable effect of
providing relatively high support to industries and enterprises with high
capital intensity, which is particularly undesirable, given Jamaica's high
unemployment. These duty exemptions are granted by all CARICOM countries in
the framework of regional industrial incentives agreements. They cannot be
removed unilaterally without hurting the country's competitive position. The
Government is aware of these problems and is discussing them with Jamaica's
CARICOM partners.
Exports
2.08       The bulk of Jamaica's foreign exchange earnings from commodity
exports results from traditional products: bauxite, alumina, sugar and
bananas, whose share in total exports has remained stable at over 80% in
recent years. On the other hand exports of manufactured products (excluding
petroleum products) have more than doubled in current US dollars since 1972,
reaching US$115 million in 1982, or 16.4% of all exports. Processed foods,
beverages, tobacco products and machinery and equipment registered real
export growth during 1972-1981, while chemicals and textiles, garments and
footwear exports suffered real declines. Manufacturing exports in 1982 were
rather disappointing, when the upturn initiated in 1981 was not sustained and
exports declined by about 4% in constant prices.



-5-
2.09      The direction of manufactured exports has changed substantially
since 1972. The share of manufactured exports which went to the protected
CARICOM market increased from one third in 1972 to over 70% in 1982.  Since
1977, third market manufactured exports have stagnated in current prices at
somewhat above US$40 million per year.  Currently, only tobacco products, rum
and small quantities of processed foods and garments are exported to
countries outside of the CARICOM area.  The remarkable export growth to the
small CARICOM market was largely due to the purchasing power increases
experienced by oil-rich Trinidad and Tobago which bought over two-third of
Jamaica's manufactured exports to CARICOM in 1982. However, the future
growth of Jamaica's exports require development of third countries' markets.
2.10      In the policy package adopted by the Government in early 1983, the
export incentives and measures to reform import licensing are the most
important steps to both achieve substantial export growth and raise the
efficiency of domestic market oriented industry. Exporters of manufactured
and non-traditional agricultural products are now permitted to retain 50% of
their foreign exchange proceeds from sales in third countries to pay for
their own imports or sell the foreign exchange at a market determined rate to
other manufacturers. The resulting improvement of export profitability was
about 25% of export value, at the end of February 1983. Under the reformed
import licensing system all enterprises exporting more than 5% of their
production are obtaining unrestricted and automatic access to imported
production inputs at the parallel exchange rate. While this does not improve
export profitability, planning for efficient investment and production of
export manufacturing is now again possible.
Prospects for Industrial Exports and Investment
2.11      The medium-term outlook of Jamaican manufactured exports for 1984
and 1985 is largely determined by the prospects for a successful structural
adjustment of the economy. In particular, third country exports which face
few demand constraints, are expected to grow largely in line with the
capability of Jamaican industry to produce exportable goods. Some supply
limitations remain for resource-based products (foods, tobacco products), but
most of other products, particularly garments, footwear, metal products and
machinery, would only be constrained by inadequate price and quality
competitiveness. Considering the supportive measures initiated and planned
by the Government to secure the price competitiveness of Jamaican exports,
third country exports should rise at high rates in the medium term. Growth
rates of 20% to 30% p.a. in current US Dollars for third country exports seem
to be feasible. CARICOM exports, on the other hand, may suffer to an
increasing extent from limitations imposed by the small market, and growth
rates ranging from 5% to 15% p.a. during 1984 and 1985 seem to be realistic.
2.12      Since resumption of the industrial growth in 1981, investments in
manufacturing have increased at a high rate.  The major part of investments
was and will probably continue to be for replacement of obsolete equipment,
since much of Jamaican industrial production capacity is run-down after many
years of inadequate investments.  Precise industrial investment estimates are
practically impossible because of insufficient statistical data, but imports
of non-automotive machinery and equipment for industry could form a
reasonable base for a projection. These imports were over US$100 million per
year in 1981 and 1982. Taking into account the real growth of this base and



international price increases as well as additional requirements for
permanent working capital of industry, industrial investments (public and
private) could average about US$150 million per year during the 1983-85
period. Private sector investment for new and expanding enterprises would be
substantially lower (para. 2.25). In 1982, the investment cost per job
varied between about US$10,000 in the competitive export industries to about
US$27,000 in other industries applying for industrial incentives.
B. Industrial Financing
Financial Institutions
2.13      Jamaica's financial institutions include:  (a) a central bank.
Bank of Jamaica (BOJ); (b) 9 commercial banks with 150 branches; (c) other
specialized institutions such as merchant banks, trust companies, building
societies and a mortgage bank; and (d) development finance institutions.
2.14      Bank of Jamaica, (BOJ) is responsible for the currency issue; it
acts as the government's bank by keeping the government's accounts and
providing advice on financial policy formulation; and as the bankers' bank,
it regulates, keeps accounts of and provide clearing facilities to the
commercial banks. It also administers foreign exchange reserves and executes
monetary policy decisions which must be agreed with the Minister of Finance.
In addition to its central bank function, BOJ has a number of specialized
agencies through which it provides student loans, oversees the stock
exchange, insures and finances exporters, and extends term credit for private
enterprises using credit lines from international and foreign institutions.
All its credit operations are conducted through commercial banks.
2.15      The Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corp. (JECIC), an agency of BOJ
provides various facilities to exporters. It offers export credit insurance,
an important means of protecting the exporter's foreign receivables against
commercial and political risks of default and delayed payments which are
beyond the exporter's control. It enables a Jamaican exporter to compete
more effectively for overseas business and permits him to assign his bills
and foreign receivables to his commercial bank thereby facilitating access to
bank financing, sometimes on more advantageous terms. JECIC has had since
the mid-1970s 3 specialized programs of financial support to help meet the
needs of Jamaican exporters for short-term working capital during both
pre-and post-shipment periods. All these operations are through commercial
banks. The Pre-Shipment Financing Facility is intended to provide
pre-shipment short-term assistance for the exporter up to 60% of the FOB
value of an export order promissory note. Under the post-shipment financing
JECIC through its Export Credit Facility provides 90-day credits for up to
100% of the CIF value of the exported goods. Furthermore, JECIC may issue,
through its Bankers' Export Guarantee Facility, an unconditional guarantee to
the commercial bank on the amount advanced to an exporter which remains
unpaid due to the buyer's failure to make payment on the due date. In this
way it eases constrafnt on the exporter's liquidity. In addition, the Export
Development Fund (EDF), which was established in 1979 as a dependency of BOJ,
provides credit and foreign exchange to qualified exporters enabling them to
purchase the imported inputs.



- 7 -
2.16      With the establishment of EDF, the use of JECIC's discount
facilities has been limited to non-EDF clients and their operations have
drastically declined. On the other hand credit risks on the sub-loans made
by commercial banks under EDF, as well as under the RehabiliPation Fund
program financed by IDB, could be guaranteed up to 80% by JECIC under its
Banker's Import Guarantee program thus enabling the banks' marginal customers
to have access to financing offered by these funds. JECIC also administers
for BOJ special credit lines provided by a number of governments, foreign
banks and export organizations to facilitate Jamaican imports and generally
tied to country of procurement and governed by special terms and conditions.
2.17      A separate agency of BOJ, Premier Investment Corp. (PIC) has been
providing credit, through commercial banks for small businesses, primarily
under World Bank financing. Since 1982 its activities have been largely
limited to collection of outstanding loans and are being phased out (para
2.20).
2.18      Commercial banks are mainly locally owned but still retain strong
ties with their present or past parent institutions in Canada, England and
USA. They generally follow the traditional banking principles of safety and
liquidity, making mostly well secured short-term loans which can be rolled
over subject to yearly reviews. About 10% of their portfolios is in mortgage
loans to selected clients secured either by residental properties valued at
least 25% above the loan amount, or by tangible business assets valued 50% or
more over the loan. In addition, commercial banks usually establish a
"ceiling" for each borrower above which they will not lend irrespective of
additional collateral or activity to be financed. In 1982, the commercial
banks' outstanding loans for manufacturing activities amounted to over J$320
million, representing over 20% of their overall loan portfolios.
2.19      Other Specialized Institutions.  Some industrial financing is
provided by merchant banks but their total lending operations represent about
3.5% of the commercial banks' loan portfolio (1982). They accept time
deposits but have no current accounts. Although authorized to make equity
investments, their assets are mainly in short-and medium-term loans. Since
their capitalization is very low (about 5% of total assets) and their
activities are concentrated on a few selected customers, they will be allowed
to use financing under the proposed project only up to double the amount of
their equity. Trust companies, building societies and a mortgage bank -
finance primarily residential and commercial mortgages and as such are not of
interest for the proposed project.
2.20      Development Finance Institutions (DFI).  Until mid-1981 there were
3 public DFIs involved in industrial lending, namely, the Jamaica Development
Bank (JDB), the Small Industries Finance Co. (SIFCO) and PIC. In 1981 the
Government decided to gradually phase out all these institutions, and to
establish the National Development Bank (NDB) as the only public sector bank
to provide industrial financing through commercial banks and other financial
intermediaries. At the same time, the Government established the
Agricultural Credit Bank to consolidate public sector financing in the
agricultural sector.  The NDB is the receipient of the proposed loan and is
fully analyzed in Part III of SAR. At present, the three DFIs named above do
not make new loans and only administer their existing loan portfolio and



- 8 -
collect outstanding loans. It is the government's stated intention to
liquidate them as soon as legal and administrative aspects can be worked out
and the final audit establishes their net portfolio and asset value. In the
meantime, a common Board of Directors was appointed for NDB, JDB and SIFCO to
oversee an orderly liquidation of the last two institutions. Liquidation
proceedings on PIC are to be undertaken as soon as its 1982 audit is
available.
Instruments of Monetary Policy
2.21      The main instruments of monetary policy are:
(i) The Bank Rate which is the interest rate charged by BOJ on its
loans to commercial banks for meeting their liquidity requirements.
Traditionally, the prime lending rate of the commercial banks has been 2
percent points above the Bank Rate. Since January 1980 the Bank Rate has
been 11% p.a.
(ii) Reserve Requirements are the amount of cash reserves and
liquid assets that commercial banks are required to hold. Cash reserves have
never been changed from their initial level of 5% of the commercial bank's
deposits. However, the liquid assets ratio (cash and short term assets of up
to 9 months maturity) has varied and is presently 29.5% (official reserves).
In January 1979 BOJ approved a "voluntary" increase in liquid assets ratio to
40%, which represents the present effective reserve requirement. The
"voluntary" reserves are held in Treasury Bills now yielding about 10% p.a.
2.22      In addition to the above regulatory instruments of monetary policy
which have not been employed in the last few years, BOJ may use selective
credit controls (used in 1980 to limit consumer's credit), and moral suasion
to affect the credit supply of the commercial banks. Because the securities
market is very narrow, open market operations cannot be effectively applied.
In general, the monetary policy instruments have not been used effectively in
Jamaica. The supply of domestic credit largely depends on the volume of
exports and the government's budgetary situation. The banking system had
high levels of liquidity during part of 1982, because of a rapid increase in
deposits. Towards the end of the year and in early 1983 liquidity declined
as the rate of growth of deposits slowed and demand for credit from the
private sector increased rapidly.
Structure of Interest Rates
2.23      Commercial banks do not pay interest on demand deposits.  On
savings accounts there is a fixed interest rate of 9% p.a. and time deposits
(6 months or more) pay between 7 1/2% to 13% p.a., depending on the amount of
deposit and its maturity. There is no official ceiling on lending rates.
The prime rate is 13% p.a. (2% above BOJ's discount rate) but the typical
effective rate is about 17% p.a. including banks' customary charges. Some



- 9 -
banks also charge an additional fee on undisbursed balances. On this basis
commercial banks earn an average interest spread of about 5.2% p.a.1/
2.24       Considering that the inflation rate in 1981 was about 4% and for
1982 is estimated at 8%, the existing lending interest rates were positive in
real terms. Following the establishment of the parallel market in January
1983, domestic prices are expected to rise, but after a short adjustment
period they should stabilize and then follow the level of international
prices. Thus, the onlending rates under the proposed project (para. 3.17)
are expected to be positive in real terms.
Demand for Investment Financing
2.25      As indicated in para. 2.14, total industrial investment in Jamaica
could average US$150 million per year during 1983-85 subject to the foreign
exchange availability. Most of the projected investment would consist of
expenditures for spare parts and intermediate goods to replenish worn out
equipment and depleted stocks and should be financed from export proceeds and
by short-to-medium term credit arranged by BOJ and its dependencies and/or by
commercial banks. The balance of the investment projection includes the
effective demand for term financing of development projects of new or
expanding enterprises. However, no firm estimate of this investment credit
demand can be made in the absence of long-term financing and any existing
project pipeline. In view of the above and on the basis of industrial
inquiries received by commercial banks and the Jamaica National Promotion
Ltd. (an investment coordinating agency), and the lending experience of the
Rehabilitation Fund, demand for NDB's foreign currency requirements is
tentatively estimated at about US$15 million per year for the next two to
three years (para. 3.20).
2.26       There are, however, two constraining factors that tend to reduce
the effective demand for investment financing:
(a) The administrative lending "ceiling" of commercial banks
(para. 2.18), although applied with varying degree of flexibility, could make
it difficult, especially for new and/or smaller enterprises, to obtain
financing for a justified expansion or promising industrial venture. Since
commercial banks will be the principal intermediaries of the proposed
project, special efforts should be made to increase their lending flexibility
and reliance on project appraisals. Contracting of an operations manager for
NDB experienced in development and commercial banking (para. 3.08) as well as
intensive training seminars to be arranged by NDB (para. 3.09) should be of
assistance towards resolution of this problem. Also, the agreed exclusion of
NDB sub-loans from the commercial banks' reserve requirements (para. 3415)
should induce the banks to increase their project lending.
(b) Scarcity of Equity Capital and the apparent
undercapitalization of the existing industrial enterprises could be a
limiting factor to financing of industrial projects. This results from
1/ Based on: (a) savings and time deposits are 75% of total deposits at an
average cost to commercial banks of 7.5% p.a.; (b) average earnings on
the required reserves is 6.2% p.a., and 17% p.a. on advances.



- 10 -
industrial decapitalization during the years of economic stagnation prior to
1980, several devaluations, and a still uncertain investment climate. While
commercial banks often obtain the borrower's pledge, usually supported by
tangible assets that could be sold at the banker's discretion, this
arrangements would not improve the financial position of the financed
enterprise or the soundness of its project. Beneficiaries under the proposed
project will be required to contribute a minimum equity of between 20-25% by
the time the project is completed in order to strengthen the financial
position of their enterprises, (para. 3.21).



- 11 -
III. PROJECT ANALYSIS
A. Background
3.01      The Bank has been involved in industrial credit in Jamaica since
1974. beginning with a US$1.9 million component of the Sites and Services
Project (No. 1003-JM), followed by the US$7.0 million Small Scale Enterprise
Development Project (No. 1609-JM) in 1978, and Two Export Development Fund
(EDF) projects, namely:  US$31.5 million (No. 1715-JM) in 1974 and US$37.0
million (No. 1978-JM) in 1981. Except for a small part of Loan 1978-JM all
loans have been committed and disbursed by March 31, 1983. Both EDF projects
were successful in ensuring the availability of imported inputs for
industrial exporters; a third EDF projects is under consideration.
Disbursements under the two small enterprise credit projects were rather slow
due to institutional changes undertaken by the Government of Jamaica during
implementation of these loans.
3.02      Confronted with the poor performance and collection records of the
Jamaica Development Bank (JDB) and the Small Industries Finance Co. (SIFCO),
the Government decided in 1981 to phase them out (as well as the Premier
Investment Corp. (PTC)) and to set up a new second-tier institution that
would be insulated from the commercial credit risk. Bank assistance was
requested in organizing and financing NDB. In view of the existing
institutional duplication the Bank offered its support with a clear
understanding that NDB would be the key public institution for industrial
financing and that the Government complete arrangements to phase out other
institutions in a satisfactory manner. As a temporary measure a common Board
of Directors for NDB, SIFCO and JDB was approved to permit an early
liquidation of the last two institutions but not burden NDB with the
administration of the existing portfolios. PIC, as a dependency of BOJ, will
be liquidated independently. Project preparation began in early 1982, and a
technical assistance contract between NDB and the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corp. of India (ICICI) for drafting policies and operating
criteria for NDB was financed under the Bank Technical Assistance Loan No.
2106-JM. The project was appraised in November - December 1982.
Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C. in April
1983.
B. Project Objectives and General Composition
Objective
3.03      The overall purpose of the proposed project is to assist the
Government of Jamaica to establish an effective institutional system that
would encourage private innovation and risk-taking and assure investment
financing for sound industrial enterprises and their projects for export
and/or efficient impOrt substitution. The project will also provide the Bank
with an opportunity to exchange views with the Government on the
effectiveness of existing policy measures and on possible changes conducive
to increase industrial efficiency.



- 12 -
3.04      More specifically, the project is designed to:
(a)  Assist NDB, the new Government institution for industrial
finance, in establishing and testing sound policies,
procedures and organizational arrangements for financing
private investment projects (paras. 3.05, 3.10-3.13);
(b)  Provide term financing to NDB for onlending through AFIs for
sound industrial projects of new and expanding private
enterprises and, in the process, to improve the financial
position and efficiency of these enterprises (paras. 3.17 -
3.19); and
(c)  Induce commercial banks and other financial intermediaries to
undertake appraisal, financing and supervision of sound
investment projects (paras. 3.14 - 3.16).
Project Composition
3.05      Within these objectives the proposed Bank loan will finance the
foreign exchange component of subloans extended by NDB for subprojects in the
manufacturing, industrial, agro-industrial, mining and tourism sectors,
including associated service enterprises. NDB loans will be private sector
oriented, but no bauxite-aluminia enterprises will be financed under the
proposed Bank loan. This was confirmed during loan negotiations and is
included in the Loan Agreement (Section 3.01). The loan will finance
construction and/or modification of industrial structures, purchase of
machinery, equipment and other moveable fixed assets, permanent working
capital,'/ and technical assistance to final beneficiaries for preinvestment
and market studies, training, and consulting services.
3.06      NDB would begin its operations as a second-tier institution making
loans through a network of approved financial intermediaries (AFI). However,
under its policy and strategy statement (Annex 1) NDB is also permitted to
issue guarantees, enter into cofinancing arrangements, extend direct loans,
make underwriting commitments, and participate in equity investment for
promotional purposes as long as such investment does not exceed 20% of the
enterprise's equity or 5% of NDB's net worth, whichever is lower. These
additional activities must first be determined as necessary and approved by
the NDB Board of Directors and appropriate operating procedures need to be
worked out. NDB will advise the Bank before it engages in such additional
activities. This was confirmed during loan negotiations.
3.07      No mandatory financing of technical assistance to NDB is envisaged
under the proposed loan, but NDB could use, subject to Bank concurrence, any
reasonable amount of the Bank loan for consulting contracts and for training
of its own professional staff and/or selected personnel of AFIs. Also, to
facilitate the appraisal and supervision of subprojects, NDB may, with the
Bank concurrence, use up to US$100,000 for the acquisition of
micro-computers, software and office equipment. This was confirmed during
loan negotiations.
i/ The initial stock of raw materials and supplies, or the increase in such
stock needed for the expansion of operations.



- 13 -
C. Project Description
National Development Bank
3.08      The NDB was established in June 1981 under the Companies Act and
was inaugurated in November 1982. It is fully owned by the Government of
Jamaica. Its Board of Directors consists of eight members, four of whom are
from the private sector, including the Board's Chairman. The Managing
Director of NDB is a well qualified individual, with banking and private
enterprise background. However, he needs some support in development banking
operations. For this reason NDB was asked to contract, for about one year, a
seasoned advisor who would act as project operations director and assist the
Managing Director in dealing with AFIs, supervising NDB's professional staff,
and assisting in the review and supervision of development proiects financed
by NDB. A satisfactory candidate has been selected and his contract was
signed in March 1983.
3.09      Because NDB will have the ultimate responsibility for financing
only sound projects, and for overseeing their supervision, it needs to have
a modest but well qualified professional staff, including economists,
financial analysts and engineers (para. 3.28). Its present project unit
consists of 4 professionals headed by an experienced project analyst and
ex-director of the Administration Staff College who will be in a position to
supervise and provide on the job training for his staff. NDB is presently
completing recruitment of additional professional and supporting staff. The
adequacy of NDB's staff was re-examined during loan negotiations and found
satisfactory to initiate operations under the loan.  Proposals for NDB's
loans can be approved as follows: up to J$100,000 by a loan committee
comprising the Managing Director and senior NDB's officers, between J$100000
and J$1.0 million by a sub-committee of the Board of Directors comprising at
least 2 Directors and 2 senior officers, and above J$1.0 million by the Board
of Directors.
3.10      NDB's operations will be governed by the policy and strategy
statement and operating criteria, approved by NDB's Board of Directors on
October 14, 1982, as amended on April 21, 1983, incorporating changes which
had been agreed during loan negotiations.    They were reviewed during loan
negotiations and found satisfactory to the Bank (Annexes 1 and 2), Their
substance could not be changed without Bank prior concurrence (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01(c)).  NDB will support only those entepr2ises  nhloi
are financially and economically viable. The maximum financial exposure of
NDB in an enterprise or a group of enterprises with joint capital or
management control will not exceed 25% of NDB's net worth. To ensure NDR's
financial soundness, its debt/equity ratio will be limited to 5 1 waich is
considered feasible and reasonable for the initial period of NDB's
operations.  As NDB gains experience this ratio could be changed with the
Bank's explicit concurrence.
3.11      The starting paid-in capital of NDB is J$10.0 million.  It is
mainly derived from the accumulated cash balances presently held by SiFCO and
PIC, and from an ECU 5.0 million concessionary loan (in foreign currency)
from the European Investment Bank (EIB) which was made to the Governmenrt of



- 14 -
Jamaica in December 1982 for the capitalization of NDB. To increase NDB's
paid-in capital, the government may also assign to NDB a portion of funds
received from repayments of short-term loans made by the IDB financed
RehabilItation Fund and/or from net repayments of loans outstanding in PIC
and SIFCO's portfolios.
312       On the basis of its projected operation and financial statements
for the initial 5 year period, NDB will have adequate funds to service its
debts, and sufficient net income (after the 45% corporate tax) to gradually
accumulate capital reserves of about J$5.3 million by 1987 (Annex 3). It
should also have adequate capital resources to support its projected
operations within the present debt-equity ratio. However, in view of future
uncertainties, (para. 3.28) government's assurance to provide local funds
that may be necessary to adequately capitalize NDB future operations is a
covenant to the Loan Agreement (Section 3.02(a)).
Approved Financial Intermediaries (AFI).
3.13      Initial lending operations of NDB will be carried out through
intermediary financial institutions approved by NDB for participation in the
program. To meet NDB criteria each institution has to be properly
registered, and designate at least one senior executive with an appropriate
background to be responsible for project evaluation and coordination with
N3DB At present there are 9 commercial and 6 merchant banks, and most of
them are expected to sign agreements with NDB to participate in the proposed
project. Three merchant banks are associated with commercial banks and three
are independent. As a safety precaution NDB has an exposure limit not to
exceed two times the net worth of each AFI except when an AFI presents a
separate guarantee satisfactory to NDB. This limit may be changed as more
experience is gained, particularity with merchant banks.
3.14      Participating AFIs will assume the entire commercial risk for their
subloans and will be expected to participate in subproject financing,
providing at least the necessary short-term working capital. They will be
primarily responsible for appraisal and supervision of subprojects they
finance. Each AFI will be obliged to repay NDB according to an agreed
schedule irrespective of whether the sub-borrower meets his repayment
obligations.  Rescheduling of subloans would be subject to NDB prior
concurrence.
3.15      For their services and risk-taking AFIs will receive an interest
spread of 3% p.a. and a flat closing fee not to exceed 1%. This rather
modest spread, suggested by the Government, has been accepted by potential
AFIs but may be revised, with Bank's concurrence, as experience is gained
regarding the performance of individual AFIs. As an inducement to term
lending by commercial banks, their loan portfolios financed by NDB will be
exempted from the reserve requirements.  This was confirmed during loan
negotiations as evidenced by the Bank of Jamaica's letter of October 13, 1982
whicn is in the Project File.
3516      Each AFT wbll be required to send to NDB semi-annually their
inancial statements, annual estimates of their lending activities and copies
of subproject supervision reports. NDB will review annually the performance
of each AFI, make appropriate recommendations and, as needed, provide
appropriate staff training facilities.



- 15 -
Subprojects
3.17      NDB's subloans will mature in 3 to 10 years including a grace
period on principal repayments of up to 3 years.  The minimum interest rate
to the final beneficiary has initially been fixed by NDB at 15% p.a..
Additionally, each sub-borrower will pay a one-time charge not to exceed 2%
of the principal subloan amount which will cover NDB's commitment fee of 1%
and closing fees of AFIs not to exceed 1%. These rates will be adjusted, if
warranted by the market conditions, subject to Bank concurrence during the
loan disbursement period. NDB and the Bank will jointly review NDB's lending
rates at least annually, not later than December 31 of each year. This was
confirmed during loan negotiations and was reflected in Section 2.03(c) of
the Project Agreement.
3.18      There will be no limit on the size of subloan, but sub-borrowers
will have to comply with a maximum debt to equity ratio of 4:1 in case of
subprojects with net fixed assets below J$300,000, and 3:1 with net fixed
assets above the amount. Also, the exposure limit of NDB (para. 3.10)
restricts its present financing of any single enterprises or group of
enterprises to about US$1.4 million equivalent.
3.19      All subprojects will be appraised by AFIs, and reviewed and
approved by NDB. In the case of small enterprises with net fixed assets
below J$100,000 (including assets to be financed under subloans) NDB will
give automatic approval to subloans but may suggest modifications or
improvements to subprojects and their evaluations. NDB's review of all
subprojects with net assets above J$100,000 will follow evaluation criteria
which are satisfactory to the Bank. These criteria are contained in NDB's
project appraisal manual and provide for economic, financial and technical
evaluations of subprojects, including environmental aspects of safety,
effluents and waste disposal. The internal rate of return (IRR) will be
calculated for all subprojects above J$100,000 and the economic rate of
return (ERR) for subprojects whose net fixed asset value, including subloan
financing, exceeds J$500,000. NDB's minimum acceptable level for both IRR
and ERR will be 12% (Annex 2). AFIs will have responsibility for supervision
of their subprojects and reporting to NDB. NDB will ensure through staff
visits and other means that proper supervision is being carried out.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.20      The proposed Bank financing of US$15.1 million (including
capitalized front-end fee) will be used exclusively for the foreign exchange
component of subproject costs which is estimated at 65%. Thus, the overall
project cost will amount to at least US$23.1 million. Industrial
beneficiaries will be required to contribute on the average of 22.5% of
subproject costs (para. 3.18) and NDB local resources will finance the
remaining 12.5%. The financial plan of the proposed project is summarized
below:



- 16 -
Table 1: ESTIMATED COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Amount
Foreign   Local a/  Total
Sources of Financing            (millions of US$ equivalent)         7
World Bank                        15.1        -         15.1       65.0
NDB                                          2.9         2.9       12.5
Sub-borrowers (average)                      5.2         5.2       22.5
15.1      8.1        23.2      100.0
a/ Converted at an assumed parallel market rate of J$2.60 to US$1.00.
3.21      Bank financing will cover about 53% of NDB's projected foreign
currency commitments (US$28.2 million) and 72% of projected foreign currency
disbursements (US$20.7 million) over a two-year period. Since NDB has
available about US$11.0 million from other foreign sources (ECU 5.0 million
from EIB2/ and US$6.0 million from Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)), it may
need for new commitments additional foreign financing by the end of CY1984 to
ensure uninterrupted operation in 1985. It is expected, however, that
several bilateral and/or international agencies will provide additional funds
to permit NDB's operations beyond the two-year period.
D. Technical Assistance
3.22      As indicated in para. 3.07, NDB may use the proposed Bank loan to
finance technical assistance including up to US$100,000 for the acquisition
of micro-computers, software and office equipment. However, except for
financing the above equipment, no further loan draw-downs are expected. The
operations manager's contract (para. 3.08) will be financed partly under the
existing Technical Assistance Loan no. 2106-JM and partly from a USAID
grant. In addition, IDB is considering a technical assistance grant to NDB
in 1983 for foreign experts (engineer, economist and financial analyst) who
will work with and provide on-the-job training for the NDB staff.
Furthermore, USAID intends to finance consultants to be attached to
commercial banks to help appraise and supervise agro-industrial projects;
this should improve commercial banks' capability to handle all industrial
projects.
3.23      To ensure adequate and prompt training of the professional staff,
NDB has hired an executive of the Administrative Staff College (Kingston) and
is also arranging with that College to organize short courses and seminars ir
project appraisal and supervision for NDB and AFIs personnel. The first
introductory course has already been completed.
2/ These funds are in European Currency Units and may be converted at NDBrs
discretion to J$s for local currency loans.



- 17 -
3.24      A satisfactory training program for 1983/84 was received from NDB
during loan negotiations. In addition, and as part of its intensive
supervision planned for the project, the Bank will provide continuous advice
and direct staff assistance to NDB including seminars in the economic and
financial evaluation of industrial subprojects.
E. Benefits and Risks
3.25      The proposed project will ensure availability of term financing for
industry which has been lacking for the last two years and help induce
industrial investment of about one-and-half times the loan amount (para.
3.20). To the extent it will assist in financing export industries and
efficient enterprises with good export potential, it will complement the
government's efforts to increase exports of non-traditional commodities in
order to diversify overall exports and improve the balance of payments.
3.26      Using the NDB framework, the project will help to build-up a
permanent institutional mechanism for supervised industrial credit based on
project appraisal. Assuming that the operational rules of NDB (developed
with Bank participation) are accepted and followed by AFIs, the experience
gained under the project could help institute multifunctional banking in
Jamaica.
3.27      The proposed industrial credit scheme is not intended to
accommodate any particular size of industrial firms, but special simplified
requirements and appraisal procedures have been designed to accommodate
lending to small enterprises. All subprojects will be reviewed and approved
by NDB and those requiring Bank approval will have an ERR of at least 12%,
(para. 3.19) but the average returns are expected to be significantly
higher. Employment will be given due attention in the systematic evaluation
of subprojects, but it should be recognized that most subprojects are likely
to be for expansion and rehabilitation of existing plants which do not
normally generate much new employment. Thus, the estimated employment
directly generated under the project will be about 1,650 jobs at an average
investment cost per job of about US$17,500 (para. 2.12) which is reasonable.
3.28      The project design, as conceived, does not involve any unusual
risk, but because of Jamaica's dependence on external trade and uncertain
world economic conditions, as well as the untested institutional set-up and
increased investment costs at parallel market rates, substantial delays in
subloan processing and disbursements may occur. To minimize technical delays
in the system's loan administration, Bank staff will supervise the project
closely in the "starting-up" period, and provide advice and assistance, as
may be necessary. Also, while commercial banks have indicated their
agreement that the financial incentives under the project are sufficient to
undertake project appraisal work, there is still a risk--because of the
bank's insufficient experience with project appraisal--that they may find it
burdensome or unprofitable. In that event, NDB may have to assume a greater
responsibility for subproject appraisals and/or the interest spread to AFT's
will have to be reconsidered. This may also lead to NDB's departure from its
initial second-tier operations and to expansion of its activities to
cofinancing, issuing of guarantees and even to direct financing of individual
subproj ect s.



- 18 -
IV. LOAN IMPLEMENTATION
A. Loan Terms and Execution Responsibility
4.01      The amount of the proposed loan will be US$15,100,000 including
capitalized front-end fee (0.25%) of US$37,656. The loan will be made to the
Government of Jamaica (Borrower) at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate (presently 10.97% p.a.), and standard commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% p.a.
It will be repaid in 17 years, including 4 years of grace. Under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement the Borrower will onlend the loan proceeds to NDB
on the same terms and conditions, but repayable in Jamaican dollars at the
official exchange rate. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition to loan effectiveness. The
proposed terms are appropriate on country grounds and some resulting
roll-overs are intended to strenghthen NDB's cash position and make its
future operations less dependent on the government's contributions. NDB will
be directly responsible for project execution and the proper utilization of
the loan proceeds.
B. Use of the Loan Proceeds
4.02      The loan will be used primarily for subproject financing.  NDB will
onlend the loan proceeds to AFIs (and through them to final beneficiaries) in
Jamaican dollars valued at the parallel market exchange rate at the time of
NDB's approval of each subproject. Any resulting exchange gain will be
retained by NDB in a special reserve account to offset, within its limits,
potential exchange losses. The Government will assume the exchange risk
under the loan in excess of the reserve fund's availability, and in addition
prevent NDB from incurring any exchange losses resulting from all its
borrowing operations (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement). NDB will charge
AFIs at least 12% p.a. plus a 1% one-time commitment fee. AFIs will onlend
the loan proceeds to final beneficiaries at a minimum of 15% p.a. plus a flat
fee not to exceed 2% (including NDB's 1% commitment fee) (para. 3.17). The
resulting interest spread of 3% p.a. (plus up to 1% closing charge) will
compensate AFIs for taking the commercial risk on subloans and for the cost
of subproject appraisal and supervision (para. 3.15). These interest rates
and charges could be changed with the Bank's prior concurrence (Section
2.03(c) of the Project Agreement).
4.03      There will be no ceiling on Bank subloan financing except for
NDB's internal limitations (para. 3.18). All subproject financing by the
Bank of US$250,000 or more ("free limit") will require Bank prior approval.
All such subprojects will contain the ERR calculation and no subproject will
be financed under the proposed loan unless the ERR is at least 12%. Also,
the first 3 subprojects below the "free limit" will require the Bank's prior
approval. The above procedure is expected to result in review by the Bank of
about 20-25 subprojects covering about 60% of the loan amount. In addition,
selected projects below the "free-limit" will be reviewed by supervision
missions in the field.



- 19 -
4.04      Apart from subproject financing, NDB may, with the Bank's
concurrence, use up to US$100,000 for the acquisition of micro-computers,
software and office equipment needed to facilitate appraisal and supervision
of subprojects. While no further financing of technical assistance is
envisaged, NDB may, with the Bank's prior concurrence, use a part of the loan
for financing consultants and staff training to complement financing
available from other sources (para. 3.07).
C. Loan Commitment and Disbursement Forecast
4.05      Because NDB is a new institution wi-th no track record, and term
financing for industrial projects was not available in the past two years,
the projected loan commitments and disbursements are tentative. They also
assume that NDB will first utilize US$11 million presently available from EIB
and CDB and receive no additional foreign exchange financing. With these
qualifications and on the basis of a potential pipeline of investment
proposals gathered by NDB, AFIs, RF and other financial institution, the Bank
loan should be committed and disbursed as follows:
Table 2: COMMITMENT AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Commitments         Disbursements a/
Semester Cumulative Semester Cumulative
(in US$ million)
FY1984
To December 31, 1983    0.8          0.8         0.2 b/      0.1 b/
June 30, 1984          4.0         4.8         0.1         0.2
FY1985
To December 31, 1984    5.4         10.2         1.1         1.3
June 30, 1985          2.5        12.7         3.0         4.3
FY1986
To December 31, 1985    2.4         15.1         4.2         8.5
June 30, 1986                                  3.3        11.8
FY1987
To December 31, 1986                             2.3        14.1
June 30, 1987                             0.8        14.9
FY1988
To December 31, 1987                             0.2        15.1
15.1                   15.1
a/ Subloans committed are assumed to be disbursed 2/3 within the following
year (1/4 and 3/4 in semesters) and 1/3 in the second year (3/4 and 1/4 in
semesters).
b/ Front-end fee.



- 20
4.06      This schedule is considered realistic.  Its commitment period
exceeds by one year NDB's projections (1982) due to a likely delaying effect
of the introduction of the parallel market exchange rate in 1983. On the
other hand, its disbursement period is shorter than the average disbursement
profile of IDF loans in Latin America, since the loan is relatively small and
funds are expected to be utilized promptly under pressure of the existing
demand for imported equipment. Accordingly, the final date for submission of
requests for financing subprojects under the loan will be December 31, 1985,
and the closing date for disbursements December 31, 1987.
D. Procurement
4.07      Loan funds will finance the foreign exchange costs of imported and
locally procured equipment, materials and services, including the foreign
exchange component of construction contracts.  Procurement of consulting and
training services will be open to international recruitment. NDB and AFIs
will satisfy themselves that procurement items are suitable for the
respective investment subprojects and are reasonably priced, and that the
beneficiaries canvassed the main sources of supply and are purchasing from
the most advantageous source. Whenever feasible, items will be procured on
the basis of several quotations, in accordance with standard practice for
DFC-type projects. This procedure will also apply to NDB's purchases of
mini-computer and office equipment (para. 4.02).
E. Disbursements
4.08      Disbursements will be made against standard documents following
direct disbursement and/or reimbursement procedures. Reimbursements for the
foreign component of local currency expenditures will be made in US dollar
equivalent, calculated at the parallel market rate at the time of NDB's
subproject approval. The loan proceeds will be used to finance the
following:
(a)  100% of foreign exchange costs for imported items, including
goods purchased off-the-shelf from domestic distributors
whenever c.i.f. prices can be ascertained;
(b)  65% of the total costs of imported commodities and associated
services purchased locally (where c.i.f. cannot ascertained);
and of locally produced machinery, equipment and supplies
representing their estimated foreign exchange component;
(c)  30% of the total cost of industrial building constructicn and
retail civil works, representing their estimated foreign
exchange component; and
(d)  100% of expenditures for technical assistance and training
contracts.



- 21 -
4.09      Since the NDB two-tier system involves double intermediation,
disbursements for subprojects will be made for expenditures incurred up to
180 days prior to the receipt by the Bank of NDB's request for approval or
financing of the respective subprojects. This follows practices established
in similar Bank operations.
F. Audit and Reporting Requirements
4.10      The accounts of NDB will be audited annually by an external
auditor satisfactory to the Bank. Since NDB's fiscal year ends on September
30, and auditors in Jamaica have a large backlog of audit works, NDB will be
required (Project Agreement Section 4.02(b)) to submit the external auditors'
report within six months following the end of each fiscal year. The reports
should follow Bank guidelines for external audits of DFC type institutions.
4.11      NDB will also submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on its
financial position, subloan operations, and institutional changes. These
reports should be received by the Bank within 45 days of the end of each
semi-annual period.



- 22 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Pursuant to the project objectives (para. 3.03-04) the following
agreements were reached during loan negotiations:
(i) Restriction of subloan financing for bauxite/aluminium
enterprises (para. 3.05).
(ii)  Bank concurrence to NDB's engaging in other than the
second-tier lending activities (para. 3.06).
(iii) The amount and terms of the loan and onlending conditions
to NDB including the applicable conversion rate between
US and Jamaican dollars (para. 4.01 and 4.02).
(iv)  Assumption by the Government of the foreign exchange risk
for the total amount of the subsidiary loan (para 4.02)
and other lending to NDB.
(v) NDB policy and operating criteria (para. 3.10).
(vi)  Joint review of the interest rates to be charged by NDB
and AFIs (para. 3.17).
(vii) Technical assistance to be financed under the loan
(para. 3.07).
(viii) Adequacy of NDB's professional staff (para. 3.09).
(ix)  Exemption of commercial banks borrowings from NDB from
reserve requirements (3.15).
5.02      Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
will be a condition to loan effectiveness (para. 4.01).
5.03      Recommendations:  With the above assurances the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15,100,000 for a term of
17 years including 4 years of grace.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
POLICIES AND STRATEGY
of the National Development Bank of Jamaica, Ltd.
approved by the Board of Directors on October 14, 1982
as amended on April 21, 1983 1/
OBJECTIVE
Introduction
1.        The objectives of the National Development Bank of Jamaica Limited
(NDB) are:
(a)  to foster the economic development of Jamaica;
(b)  to increase employment by assisting in the establishment,
expansion, diversification and modernization of business
enterprises;
(c)  to facilitate the widening of Jamaica's entrepreneurial base;
(d)  to encourage the adoption of innovation and technological
improvements; and
(e)  to facilitate the development of a capital market and thereby
encourage the flow of risk capital.
2.        Within the framework of the overall economic policies, priorities
and guidelines that are determined by the Government of Jamaica from time to
time, the NDB will extend assistance to enterprises in the manufacturing,
industrial, agro-industrial, tourism and mining sectors and associated
enterprises. The NDB will be private sector oriented.
3.        The NDB will finance as integral components of projects, the
following:
(a) construction and/or expansion or modification of industrial
structures;
(b) purchase of machinery and equipment;
/  Amendments agreed to during loan negotiations.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
(c) purchase of moveable fixed assets; and
(d) permanent working capital defined as the initial stock of raw
materials and supplies, or the increase in such stock needed
for the expansion of operations.
Additionally, the NDB will approve loans (and other forms of
assistance) to:
(a) rehabilitate existing enterprises which have good prospects in
the medium term;
(b) prepare feasibility studies and market reports;
(c) facilitate programmes aimed at management training and
technical assistance in relation to a specific project;
(d) purchase machinery and equipment required for implementing
special schemes aimed at improving the profitability of an
existing enterprise.
4.        The NDB will extend its support by way of loans in foreign and
local currencies, guarantees for loans, equity participation and
under-writing commitments.
5.        NDB will strive to maintain a balanced portfolio with respect to
type of financing, size of enterprises and nature of industry.
6.        NDB will only support enterprises that have a sound financial
structure, a proper accounting system and are financially and economically
viable or are capable of being so over a reasonable period. In addition,
promoters will be expected to have a reasonable financial stake in the
projects.
7.        The NDB will seek to make a profit so as to increase its net worth
and thereby its borrowing power.
8.        NDB will recruit experienced and qualified professionals adequate
in number to match its operations and will institute appropriate procedures
and systems to ensure timely decision making and the effective monitoring of
enterprises. The NDB will arrange on the job training for its
professionals.
9.        The NDB's strategy to achieve its objectives will be to implement a
phased programme of its activities and operations.
10.       As and when necessary, NDB may also devise and operate other forms
of financial assistance, encourage or undertake new activities and establish
specialized institutions aimed at facilitating the industrial development of
the country.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
Scope of Operations
1.        NDB intends to extend its support by way of the following
programmes:
(a) lending to approved financial institutions (AFIs) for
onlending to eligible enterprises;
(b)  providing financial support for promotional activities
(including project documentation and market surveys);
(c) equity participation in eligible enterprises jointly with AFIs
or with established international agencies;
(d) lending jointly with AFIs to high risk enterprises and to
existing enterprises in need of rehabilitation; and
(e) direct lending and/or venture capital investment.
2.        The NDB will commence operations by:
(a) lending to AFIs for onlending to eligible enterprises; and
(b) providing financial support for promotional activities (i.e.
l(a) and l(b) above).
Other programmes will be undertaken by the NDB as deemed
necessary. The staff and operating procedures necessary to implement these
programmes will be developed pari passu.
3a.        (i)  The NDB will lend local and foreign currencies to AFIs to
enable them to provide medium and long term development finance,
with maturity from 3 - 10 years; where necessary a moratorium on
principal repayments up to 3 years will be granted. (ii) AFIs will
normally be expected to participate in each project by providing
loans out of their own funds to meet at least the working capital
requirements as specified in the financial plan for a project.
(iii) NDB will ensure that priority is given to the granting of
licences related to the import content of projects approved by
NDB. (iv) NDB's loans to AFIs required for supporting projects
will be exempt from the reserve requirements of the Banking Act.
(v) To be eligible for NDB's support, AFIs must satisfy the
criteria set out in NDB's guidelines. (vi) NDB will allow AFIs a
spread of no more than 3% on local and foreign currency funds lent
to them. (vii) AFIs will bear the entire commercial risk on their
sub-loans without guarantees from the NDB. (viii) NDB will
carefully evaluate each proposal from an AFI in accordance with
NDB's policy criteria. (ix) In cases where the risk is shared or
with the consent of the AFI, the NDB may establish and maintain
direct contacts with the management and senior executives of
assisted enterprises. (x) NDB will annually review an AFI's



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
sub-loan operations to ascertain the extent to which norms and
criteria included in the NDB's guidelines have been adopted in
selecting a project for assistance. NDB will also analyze the
size, the terms of lending, including maturity period and nature
and type of collateral. The review will also include an assessment
of the number and type of proposals which AFIs did not support out
of total number of project applications received. AFIs will
furnish to NDB all data required for this purpose. The purpose of
this review is to assess the effectiveness of this aspect of NDB's
activity.
3b.        (i)  NDB will finance promotional activities including project
documentation, market surveys, management training and
technical assistance.
(ii) Project documentation may be undertaken by the NDB, AFIs,
JNIP, JIDC and consultants for payment of fees. The cost will
be financed directly by the promoters or, if appropriate, by
way of loans from the NDB.
4.         On request from the Government of Jamaica, NDB will administer
special programmes provided that no financial liability will devolve on NDB
with respect to such special programmes, and provided that, in the opinion of
the Board of Directors of NDB, the administration of such programmes will not
in any way conflict with the activities and operations of the Bank
hereinbefore stated.
5.         NDB's total exposure in terms of sub-loans by AFIs, NDB's own loans
and equity participation in an enterprise or group of related enterprises
will not exceed 25% of its net worth. For this purpose, related enterprises
shall be those displaying the following characteristics:
(a) Their ownership structure is such that a single person or
members of that person's family to the second degree of
consanguinity and/or affinity own 40% or more of the stock of
each company, and control the management thereof.
(b) A single body corporate, including its subsidiaries and/or
related enterprises, owns more than 40% of the stock in
another enterprise.
(c) The ownership structure of two or more enterprises is such
that, in the opinion of NDB, they belong to one and the same
financial group.
(d) The production of two or more enterprises is integrated and
they buy and sell a substantial proportion of their products
from one another, making the survival of one dependent
entirely on the actions of the other.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Financial Structure of Resources
1.        (a)  The initial paid-up share capital of NDB will be 10 million
Jamaican Dollars contributed by the Government of Jamaica.
(b) Further, the Government has agreed to provide additional Share
Capital as and when necessary so that NDB can expand its
operations to meet the growing financial needs of eligible
enterprises and also to maintain its debt equity ratio at a
level that will ensure a sound financial structure of the
NDB.
2.        The NDB will endeavour to earn profit by exercising effective
control on its operational costs on the one hand and by maintaining a
reasonble spread between average cost of its borrowed funds and average
lending rates on the other hand.
3.        NDB will mobilize foreign currency funds by way of foreign
Government loans and loans from international financial institutions.
4.        NDB will maintain a satisfactory debt equity ratio as a measure of
its financial strength. For this purpose, the debt equity ratio will be
initially fixed at 5:1. However, the ratio will be reviewed from time to
time, taking into account the quality of its portfolio, overall financial
structure of the Bank and the growing financial requirements of the eligible
enterprises.



-28 -
-                                            -28-                          ANNEX 2
Page 1 of  1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
OPERATING CRITERIA
of the National Development Bank of Jamaica, Ltd.
approved by the Board of Directors on October 14, 1982
as amended on April 21, 1983 1/
Introduction
This Manual covers the operating criteria of the National
Development Bank of Jamaica Limited under the following headings:
I.   Eligibility Conditions for Approved Financial Institutions
(AFIs).
II.   The Contractual Relationship Between NDB and AFIs.
III.   Responsibilities of AFIs.
IV.   Responsibilities of NDB.
V.   Project Appraisal Criteria.
VI.   Supervision Guidelines.
VII.   Criteria for NDB's Operations.
The operating criteria are to be interpreted and implemented within
the framework of NDB's basic document - "Policies and Strategy."
I.  ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS FOR AFIs
A financial institution which fulfills all the following conditions
could be eligible for medium and long term loans from NDB:
1.   The financial institution should have received -
a)   a licence from the Ministry of Finance under the Banking
Act; or
I/ Amendments agreed to during loan negotiations.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 11
b)   should be registered under either the Protection of
Depositors Act or Co-operative Societies' Act; or
c)   should be registered under any other Act as may be
specified by the Board of NDB from time to time.
2.   The financial institution should have experience in appraising
and supervising medium and long term lending for industrial
projects.
3.   The financial institution should have designated at least one
senior executive with background and experience in financial
management as being responsible for project evaluation and
co-ordination with NDB.
4.   (a)  NDB will have the right to decide whether or not to
approve as an AFI a financial institution which fulfills
the above conditions.
(b) NDB will have the right to withdraw its approval of an
AFI at its own discretion.
II. CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN NDB AND AFIs
The contractual relationship between NDB and AFIs will be governed
by a General Agreement (Appendix I)2/ under which NDB will provide local and
foreign currency funds to an AFI for on-lending to sub-borrowers according to
NDB's guidelines. This Agreement will specify that an AFI will bear the
entire commercial risk and will be the principal debtor to NDB. Each letter
of loan approval from NDB to an AFI will be deemed to form a part of the
General Agreement.
III. RESPONSIBILITIES OF AFIs
The responsibilities which an AFI will undertake are set out in the
ensuing pages under the following headings:
1.   Project Appraisal
2.   Project Supervision
3.   Responsibilities to NDB
2/ This and other appendices are in the Project Files.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 11
1.         Project Appraisal
(a)  For loans in excess of J$100,000, an AFI will receive
applications in the format outlined in Appendix 2 from
eligible enterprises in the industrial, manufacturing, mining,
agro-industrial, and tourism sectors of the economy.
For loans of up to J$100,000, an AFI will receive applications
in the format of its own choice, including the format it
normally uses to make medium and long term loans.
(b)  An AFI will send copies of all applications to NDB.
(c)  An AFI will examine the technical feasibility, management
capability, and financial and economic viability of the
proposed project. Guidelines to aid in the performance of
these tasks are presented in the booklet; Project Appraisal
Manual, a copy of which will be presented to the AFI.
(d)  An AFI will endeavour to make a decision whether or not to
support a project within a maximum period of two months from
the date of receipt of complete application.
(e) (i) An AFI can make commitments on loans of up to J$100,000
subject to confirmation from NDB that the projects meet its
developmental criteria.
(ii) In the case of such projects, the AFI will make a written
request (Appendix 3) to NDB for each loan and attach its own
appraisal report (which may be different from the format
prescribed by NDB for larger loans).
(iii) Provided that the relevant criteria are met, NDB will,
in turn, approve the loan to the AFI on receiving the written
request.
(f)  Loan requests exceeding J$100,000 will be made by the AFI in a
prescribed letter (Appendix 3) to which will be attached -
a)   a copy of its appraisal report in the prescribed form
(Appendix 4), and
b)   a statement of the nature and value of collateral the AFI
proposes to obtain from the enterprise and the
promoters.
(g)  On approval by the NDB an AFI will commit assistance subject
to the relevant terms and conditions as outlined in Appendices
5 and 6. Loans will bear a fixed rate of interest as
determined by NDB from time to time, which would include a
spread of up to 3% for the AFI.



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 11
(h)  An AFI will undertake not to change the interest rate
stipulated for a sub-loan during the life of the loan, except
in the case of default in the payment of interebt or principal
by the sub-borrower.
(i) Loans from NDB to an AFI will be exempt from the reserve
requirements of the Banking Act.
2.         Project Supervision
(a) An AFI will ensure that:
(i)  any disbursement is made only after satisfactory
completion of security;
(ii) procurement of imported equipment is in conformity with
the requirements of agreement between NDB/Government of
Jamaica and the international financial institutions,
including requirement pertaining to international
solicitation of competitive quotations from at least
three suppliers (exceptions need to be justified);
(iii)  building, plant, equipment and other fixed assets and
services to be financed out of disbursements on the basis
of commercial documents (such as, bill of lading,
invoices, service contracts, etc.,) are in conformity
with the project originally approved by the AFI.
(b)  An AFI will undertake effective supervision and monitoring of
an assisted project. Guidelines to assist the AFI in the
performance of this task are presented in a separate booklet
entitled Supervision Manual, a copy of which will be provided
by NDB. In particular, an AFI will:
(i)  supervise project execution to ensure that it is
implemented within the time schedule and also within the
project cost as originally estimated by receiving
semi-annual Project Implementation Report in a prescribed
form given in Appendix 7 and making at least two visits,
or such numbers as may be appropriate, to the plant site
during the execution period;
(ii) ascertain that a project is fully executed in all
respects as approved with respect to its rated capacity
and processes of production;
(iii)  inform NDB about substantial cost overrun (20% or more of
the original project cost), and the steps it proposes to
make to finance the overrun;



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 11
(iv) send to NDB a copy of its report (Appendix 8) on the site
visit.
(c) After a project has gone into operation, an AFI will:
(i)  provide semi-annual Operations Report in a prescribed
form (Appendix 9) from an assisted enterprise; also,
audited financial statements within six months from the
end of the financial year of an assisted enterprise or,
alternatively, pro forma statement of accounts within six
months from the end of financial year together with
justification for not submitting audited statements
within the prescribed time limit; and
(ii) make at least one visit to the plant during each year for
which the loan or any part thereof remain outstanding.
(d)  In the case of default, an AFI will inform NDB of the steps it
proposes to take to recover.
(e) An AFI will endeavour to ensure that an assisted enterprise
does not undertake large capital expenditure or investment in
any other enterprise without its prior approval.
3.        AFI's Responsibilities to NDB
(a) An AFI will meet its repayment obligations to NDB according to
the repayment schedule for each loan from NDB whether or not
the sub-borrower meets its repayment obligations to the AFI.
(b) If a sub-borrower prepays a loan either fully or partially,
the full amount of prepayment will be immediately apportioned
between an AFI and NDB in the proportion in which the AFIts
medium and long term loan to a sub-borrower is financed out of
NDB's loan.
(c) An AFI will pay to NDB an up front commitment charge of 1% on
its loan to the AFI. This charge will be passed on by the AFI
to the final sub-borrower.
(d)  (i)  An AFI will send annually to NDB information on the
number of professionals entrusted with project appraisal
and supervision work, on their participation in training
programmes during the year and the steps, if any, it
proposes to strengthen its project appraisal and
supervision capabilities in the next year.
(ii) An AFI will send to NDB its annual financial statements.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 11
(iii) On request by NDB, an AFI will furnish information to NDB
related to the AFI's medium and long term onlending
operations.
(e)  To enable NDB to meet the loan requirements of the AFIs, they
will each be requested to submit to NDB in June of each year
an Annual Business Plan. The Plan will include estimates by
sectors (manufacturing, tourism, mining and agro-industries)
of loan approvals and disbursements (broken-down) into local
and foreign currencies) during the forthcoming year.
(f)  An AFI will send to NDB a copy of its Visit Reports within two
weeks from the date of each plant visit.
(g)  In the loan agreement with a sub-borrower, an AFI will
stipulate that a sub-borrower submits directly to the AFI for
transmittal to NDB the following:
(i) semi-annual Project Implementation Report (Appendix 7);
(ii) semi-annual Operations Report (Appendix 9);
(iii) audited or proforma financial statements within six
months from the end of the financial year;
(iv) any other information which NDB may request.
The agreement with a sub-borrower will also stipulate that the AFI
reserves the right to allow NDB to visit the plant of the assisted enterprise
and to have access to the books of accounts.
IV. RESPONSIBILITIES OF NDB
NDB will have the following responsibilities to the AFIs.:
1.   NDB will lend to an AFI the amount approved for financing the
fixed assets of a project. NDB's loan will match the local
currency and foreign exchange requirements of the fixed assets
of the project.
2.   (a)  The maximum exposure of NDB in an AFI will not exceed two
times the AFI's net worth (paid-up Share Capital and
reserves after adjusting for losses) estimated on the
basis of its last Audited Statement of Accounts.
(b) If the exposure exceeds the maximum limit, the AFI will
offer appropriate guarantees to NDB for the excess
amount.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 11
(c) NDB will, from time to time, revise its maximum exposure
limit.
3.   On receiving a proposal from an AFI for loan assistance, NDB
will evaluate the proposal, and will communicate its decision
within a maximum period of six weeks from the date of
receiving the financing request from the AFI.
4.   NDB will ensure that a project, in addition to being
financially viable, makes a positive contribution to economic
development of the country. Fo-r this purpose NDB, as a part
of its assessment of a loan proposal, will calculate economic
indicators for a project (mentioned later) to judge its
economic viability.
5.   NDB will indicate to AFIs from time to time the interest rate
they should charge on future sub-loans and will allow AFIs a
spread of up to 3%.
6.   NDB, on the basis of its scrutiny of an AFI's appraisal, may
suggest improvements of modifications in the project concept
for the consideration of the AFI.
7.   (a)  NDB will review annually operations of an AFI with
respect to its interface with NDB. The review will
include analysis of its project financing operations,
efficiency of its project system, efficiency of its
supervision system and adequacy and capability of its
staff.
(b) Based on its annual review, NDB may make recommendations
to the AFIs with regard to improving their project
financing policy and the strengthening of their staff
capabilities.
(c) NDB, if so warranted, will provide training facilities to
an AFI to ensure that it builds up satisfactory staff
capabilities for project appraisal and supervision.
V. PROJECT APPRAISAL CRITERIA
Having considered the eligibility criteria for AFIs, relationship
between NDB and AFIs and their respective responsibilities, this section and
the following sets out project appraisal criteria and supervision
guidelines.
A project will be appraised by AFIs according to the criteria
mentioned below and judgement about its viability will normally be based on



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 11
these criteria. Support for a project in which the estimated ratios vary
significantly from those stipulated would have to be fully justified.
1.   Promoters' Contribution
(a)  The minimum amount of promoters' contribution will
normally be 25% of project cost; but in the case of
projects with net fixed assets (including land and
buildings) not exceeding J$300,000 on completion of the
proposed project, the minimum contribution will normally
be 20%.
(b) In each case efforts will be made to maximize promoters'
contribution beyond the stipulated minimum so as to
strengthen the equity base, particularly of existing
enterprises.
(c) The promoters' contribution in the case of a new
enterprise will be by way of paid-up share capital and in
the case of existing enterprises by way of cash accruals
estimated on the basis of realistic projections of its
profitability during the period of implementation of the
project and unsecured subordinate loan from promoters, if
required.
2.   Debt Equity Ratio
(a) The debt equity ratio for the enterprise as a whole
should not normally exceed 3:1. If the debt equity ratio
of an existing enterprise is higher than 3:1, it is
essential that financial plan for the project be so
formulated as to reduce the overall debt equity ratio of
the enterprise to 3:1 when the proposed project goes into
commercial production. This may require the
re-investment of profits by an existing enterprise as a
pre-condition of NDB's loan.
(b) However, in the case of small projects with net fixed
assets (including land and buildings) below J$300,000 on
completion of the proposed project, the debt equity ratio
should not be higher than 4:1.
(c) The proposed debt equity ratios should be attained at
least by the time the project commences production and
thereafter they should be improved by a prudent financial
management of the enterprise.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 11
(d) When other financial institutions decide to have equity
participation in an enterprise, the debt equity ratio
should not exceed 2:1 in the case of projects with net
fixed assets exceeding J$300,000 on completion of the
proposed project and 3:1 in other cases.
(e) In estimating debt equity ratio, capital reserves created
by a revaluation of assets should not be counted as a
part of equity.
3.   Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR)
The minimum DSCR should normally be 1.5. However, in the case
of a project or enterprise which primarily depends on imported raw materials,
the minimum DSCR should normally be somewhat higher than 1.5.
4.   Other Financial Indicators
In addition, it is necessary for an AFI to calculate for each
project3/ and, in the case of an existing enterprise, for the project itself
as well as for the enterprise as a whole including the impact of the proposed
project, the following financial indicators as detailed in the Appendix 10.
(i) financial internal rate of return (IRR);
(ii) return of capital employed (ROI);
(iii) current ratio; and
(iv) break-even point.
5.   Economic Indicators
In assessing a project, NDB will also calculate economic
indicators to determine whether or not a project makes a positive
contribution to the economic development of the country. AFIs may, should
they so desire, also estimate these economic indicators (Appendix 11) while
appraising projects:
(a) In the case of projects with net fixed assets (including land
and buildings) below J$500,000, on completion of the proposed
project, economic indicators to be calculated are:
(i) ratio of investment per worker employed;
(ii) net foreign exchange earning/savings; and
3/ For subprojects below J$100,000 calculation of IRR will not be required.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 11
(iii) the effective rate of protection (ERP).
(b) In the case of projects with net fixed assets (including land
and buildings) exceeding J$500,000, on completion of the
proposed project, economic indicators to be calculated are:
(i) ratio of investment per worker employed;
(ii) net foreign exchange earning/saving;
(iii) the effective rate of protection (ERP); and
(iv) economic rate of return (ERR).
IRR and ERR lower than 12% will normally be considered as
unsatisfactory.
VI. SUPERVISION GUIDELINES
1.   During the project implementation stage, the objectives of
supervision by AFIs will be to ensure that -
(a) promoters not only bring in their contributions according to
the original financing plan but also utilize such
contributions for financing assets required for the project;
(b) a proper financing plan is formulated expeditiously to meet
cost overrun in the cases where there is justification for the
overrun; and
(c) the project is completed as originally approved.
2.   During the project operation stage, the objectives of
supervision by AFIs are to ensure that:
(a) an assisted enterprise maintains satisfactory liquidity
position (as measured by its current ratio) to enable it to
continue to operate at optimum capacity;
(b) the enterprise generates adequate cash accruals to meet its
debt servicing obligations; and
(c) payment of interest and principal are made on due dates.
3.   To fulfill the above objectives of supervision an AFI will
receive from assisted enterprises the following:



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page llof 11
(a)  audited financial statements or pro forma statements of
accounts within six months from the end of the financial year
of an enterprise;
(b)  semi-annual Project Implementation Report (Appendix 7) on the
financial and physical progress of a project; and
(c)  semi-annual Operations Report (Apendix 9) on:
(i) actual capacity utilization in relation to the rated
installed capacity;
(ii) volume of sales in domestic markets;
(iii) volume of export sales;
(iv) value of production;
(v) value of stock of finished goods.
4.   The above reports will be analyzed with a view to deciding on
the appropriate action, if any, which may have to be taken with respect to an
assisted enterprise. Copies of the reports will also be forwarded to NDB.
VII. CRITERIA FOR NDB'S OPERATIONS
NDBts lending to an AFI for onlending to an eligible enterprise
will be decided on its assessment of the AFI's appraisal of the project. In
this exercise, NDB will pay particular attention to management capabilities,
cost estimates of the project (including estimate of working capital) to
ascertain whether it is realistic or not, and the assumptions on which
profitability projections are based. Before approving a loan to an AFI, NDB
will scrutinize not only the financial viability but also the economic and
technical viability of the project.



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
National Development Bank - Financial Projections
General Assumptions
1.        NDB is a recently established financial institution and as such has
no track record. Thus, the estimates of NDB's future financial aspects are
based on specific assumptions noted in the text and/or in the attached tables
and which were arrived at between the appraisal mission and NDB. All
currency conversions are based on the official exchange rate of J$1.78 =
US$1.00 as of December 31, 1982. However, the establishment of a parallel
exchange market in January 1983 which is subject to fluctuations, may cause
substantial deviations in these projections. This is particularly relevant
in the case of domestic costs which are expected to increase but not
necessarily in the same proportions as the parallel market rates.
Resources
2.        It is programmed, that NDB's initial equity capital will be J$10.0
million in 1983 to be gradually increased to J$15.0 million or more by 1985.
3.        NDB's foreign capital resources are made available through the
European Investment Bank (EIB) which had signed a contract with the
Government at the end of 1982 with the provision that the funds (ECU 5.0
million, J$8.6 million equivalent) lent to GOJ be made available to
capitalize NDB. A first portion (ECU 2.0 million equivalent), will be
paid-in during the first year, the balance of ECJ 3.0 million equivalent
during the second year of NDB's operations. In addition, equity resources
could come from the Rehabilitation Fund (RF) whose subloan repayments are
going to GOJ and at least partly have been earmarked for further NDB's
capitalization.
4.        Based on the probable demand for subloans, NDB needs to raise
substantial amounts of both, foreign and local currency loans. Accordingly,
from 1984 onwards, a gradual build-up of local currency borrowings by NDB is
assumed. It is further assumed that at an estimated interest rate of 10%
these funds would come primarily from GOJ and they would be repayable in 6
equal annual installments after a grace period of 2 years.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
5.        As to foreign currency loans to be raised, NDB intends to be
supplied by sources such as the Bank, IDB, CDB, TJSAID, KfW, and others. CDB
has already approved a US$6.0 million loan in December 1982. Assuming a Bank
loan of US$15.0 million, all estimated approvals in 1983 will be covered. An
indication as to the amount available from each source and as to the terms of
borrowing is difficult to give. For projection purposes, however, it is
assumed that the foreign currency loans will be raised at an average interest
rate of 10% with an average commitment charge of 1/2% on the undrawn balance
and a maturity period of 8 years including a grace period of 2 years.
6.         Capital Structure.  The attached projected balance sheet shows that
total assets are increasing rapidly. Fixed assets are increased by J$100,000
per year in the first two years and by J$50,000 for the remaining three years
of the projection period. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line
basis and the average rate assumed is 16%, excluding building cost. The
current ratio stays well above necessary requirements.
7.        Profitability.  Except for the first year of active lending, NDB
will show a modest after tax profit increasing from 3.2% of NDB's equity in
1984 to 7.3% in 1987. This profitability is low, but not unusual for a
government-owned second-tier institution, where the differential interest
spread is being passed to participating intermediaries. Estimated interest
spread of NDB over its average cost of borrowed funds is about 1.6%, and
about 3.9% over the average cost of all resources, including equity. Gross
spread as percentage of total assets is shown to decrease from 5.5% in 1983
to 3.1% in 1987 due to increased interest payments. This assumes that NDB's
staff will not increase. Salaries and administrative expenses are estimated
at J$900,000 in the first year plus J$200,000 p.a. for technical assistance
in the first two years. It is further assumed that expenses increase by 15%
p.a. during the first two years and 10% thereafter. Interest receivable is
1-1/2% of interest income plus 10% of this amount. Interest payable is 3% of
interest income plus 10% of this amount. Other income (e.g., interest income
on bank deposits and staff loans, gain on sale of assets) is assumed at 9% of
the average liquid assets in the form of cash and bank balances and
short-term investments.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                 Page 3 of 6
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Operations
(US$ million) 1/
CATEGORY                           1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
LOANS RAISED
J$                                 --        2.81       5.06       5.62       6.18
FC                               11.24      15.06      2n.22      92.*17     2A.79
DRAW DOWN
J$                                 --        2.81       5.06       5.62       6.18
FC                                L.c4      10. A      1&.0n    18.11        20.22
EQUITY (increases)
J$                                5.06        --21                --         --
FC                                1.91       2.92                 --         --
APPROVALS
J$                                3.37       4.49       5.06       5.62       6.18
FC                               13..i8     17.08      2n<22      22.47      24.72
16.85     22.47      25.28      28.09      30.90
COMMITMENTS
J$                                3.03       4.04       4.55       5.06       5.56
FC                               12.13      16.18      18.20      20.22      20.56
15.16     20.22      22.75      25.28      25.12
DISBURSEMENTS
J$                                1.74       3.43       4.10       4.61       5.06
FC                                6.85      13.76      16.40      18.37      20.22
8.59     17.19      20.50      22.98      25.28
Loans approved are assumed fully committed and disbursed within two years of
approval. 10% of loans approved are dropped before commitment and a further
5% are dropped before disbursement. In the first year 90% of loans approved
are committed while 51% (.85 x 6) are disbursed, the remaining 34% (.85 x .4)
being disbursed in the second year.
1/ Converted from J$ values at the official exchange rate of 1.78 to 1 to
neutralize the effect of the parallel market introduced in January 1983.
December 1982
LCPI1



- 42 -                         ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                     Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Income Statement
(J$ million)
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
INCOME
Income from loans
Interest                       0.9        3.7        7.5       11.4      15.0
Commitment fee                 0.3        0.3        0.4        0.4       0.5
Other income                      0.4        0.6        0.9        1.7        2.4
1.6       4.6        8.8       13.5       17.9
EXPENSES
Interest on borrowings            0.4        2.1        5.2        8.8       12.3
Commitment charge on
borrowings   0.0         0.1       0.1        0.2        0.2
Salaries and benefits             0.7        0.8        0.6        0.7        0.7
Other administrative expenses   0.5          0.5        0.6        0.7        0.7
Depreciation                       --         --         --        0.1        0.1
3.5       6.5       10.3       14.0
Profit(loss) before tax          (0.1)       1.1        2.3        3.2        3.9
Provision for tax (45%)            --        0.5        1.0        1.5        1.8
Profit after tax                 (0.1)       0.6        1.3        1.8        2.1
APPROPRIATIONS
Dividend
Reserves                         (0.5)       0.1        1.3        3.1        5.3
Gross spread/Total assets %         5.5        4.7        3.6        3.2        3.1
Profit/Equity %                       -        3.2        5.3        6.8        7.3
December 1982
LCPI1



ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                      Page 5 of 6
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Balance Sheet _/
(J$ million)
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
ASSETS
Cash & short-term
investments                       6.1        6.1       16.4       23.8      32.5
Receivables                       0.1        0.5        1.1        1.6        2.1
Outstanding loans
J$                             3.1        9.2       15.9      22.2       27.9
FC 1/                         12.2       36.7       63.5      88.8      111.7
Fixed Assets                      0.1        0.2        0.3        0.3        0.4
(less depreciation)            --        (0.1)     (0.1)      (0.1)      (0.2)
0.1       0.1        0.2        0.2        0.2
Total               21.6       52.7       97.1      136.6      174.3
LIABILITIES
Tax payable                       --         0.5        1.0        1.5        1.8
Accounts payable and
other liabilities               0.1        0.6        1.4        2.4       3.4
Borrowings
J$                             --         5.0       14.0      23.2       31.8
FC 1/                          8.8       28.1       55.9      83.0      108.6
EQUITY
Share capital                    13.2       18.4       23.4       23.4      23.4
Reserves                         (0.5)       0.1        1.3        3.1        5.3
Total               21.6       52.7       97.1      136.6      174.3
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                  0.7:1      1.8:1      2.8:1      4.0:1      4.9:1
(Notes Figures may,not add up due to rounding)
1/  Based on the official exchange rate of J$1.78   US$1.00 as December 31, 1982.
December 1982
LCPI1



- 44 -                        ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                     Page 6 of 6
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(J$ million) 1/
1983      1984       1985      1986       1987
SOURCES
Profit (Loss)                    (0.06)    0.62       1.35      1.85       2.19
Increase in share capital         6.97     2.92       2.81       -          -
Drawdown on borrowings
J$                             -        2.81      5.06       5.62       6.18
FC                            4.94    10.84      16.40      18.31      20.22
Loan collections
J$                             -         -        0.34       1.01       1.85
FC                             -         -        1.40       4.16       7.42
Total         11.85    17.19       27.36     30.95      37.86
USES
Increase in fixed assets         0.06      0.06      0.03       0.03       0.03
Disbursement of loans
J$                            1.74      3.43      4.10       4.61       5.06
FC                            6.85    13.76      16.40      18.31      20.22
Repayments
J$                             -         -          -        0.45       1.29
FC                             -         -        0.84       3.15       5.84
Increase (decrease) in
receivables                    -       (0.06)    (0.11)    (0.34)    (0.28)
Less increase in payables         -         -          -         -          -
Tax payment                       -         -        0.28       0.56       0.84
Increase (decrease) in cash      3.20       -        5.79       4.16       4.89
Total         11.85    17.19      27.36      30.95      37.86
Debt-service coverage 2/                   1.3       1.4        1.3        1.2
Note:  Figures may not add up due to rounding.
1/  Based on the official exchange rateof J$1.78 = US$1.00 as of December 31, 1982.
21 Defined as: Profit after tax + depreciation + interest paid + loan collection
Interest payment on all loans + principal repayment
December 1982
LCPI1



- h45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in project Files
A. The Sector
A-1   Industrial Sector (Detailed Analysis), Internal Paper, March 1983.
A-2   Bank of Jamaica, Report and Statement of Accounts, December 31,
1981.
A-3   The Role and Functions of the Central Bank of December 31, 1981.
A-4   Statistical Digest, BOJ, January 1983.
A-5   Monthly Review, BOJ, July 1982.
B.  The Project
B-1   Extract from the Minutes of Meeting of the NDB Board of Directors
held on October 12, 1982 approving NDB Policy Statement, Operating
Criteria, and Operating Procedures.
B-2   Letter from Bank of Jamaica of October 13, 1982 re:  exemption of
commercial banks from reserve requirements.
B-3   Policy Documents of NDB (September 1982)
(a)  Policy and Strategy Statement
(b)  Operating Criteria
(c)  Operating Procedures (with Annexes)
(d)  Organization Chart
(e)  Board of Directors (with individual resumes).
B-4   NDB: Operations Manual.
B-5   NDB: Project Appraisal Manual (August 1982).
B-6   NDB: Supervision Manual, (August 1982).
B-7   NDB: Manual of Accounting Systems and Procedures (August 1982).
B-8   NDB: Management Control and Information System (August 1982).



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
C. Project Related Documents
C-1   Caribbean Development Bank:  Appraisal Report on Industrial Line of
Credit to NDB, (Doc: AR 82/26 JA), November 1982.
C-2   Credit Regulations for NDB Energy Conservation Fund (Draft prepared
by First Washington Associates, July 1982).
C-3   USAID/Jamaica:  Small Scale Manufacturing Assistance, Project Paper
prepared by First Washington Associates, 1982.
.



CC.                                                                                                                                    MCCC C   )441 IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  l
n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       6
A R~~~~~~~~~~~~Ac,r,a
Ovq!-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
CLCARENO           -ST                                   AN'TI EW
CATHE~~~~~Rl                        -   ------ OCA      -
paCCaraC4 ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ZAET
~~~~~~a~~~~~~~~~~CC'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~'                                                                                                        SFO
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A
JA AICASSa~
A  z~ ~~~~~~~~~4                                                                    



