Document of                               FILE CORY1
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3539-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$15.1 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 28, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Approximate Selling Rate
at the Official Parallel Market
Official Rate                      (Since January 1983)
US$1.00  =  J$1.78                    US$1.00  =  J$2.60
US$0.56  -  J$1.OO                    US$0.38  =  J$1.
US$56.18 =  J$100.                    US$38.46 =  J$100.
ACRONYMS
AFI       Approved Financial Intermediary of NDB
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica (Central Bank)
CARICOM   Caribbean Economic Community
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
DFI       Development Finance Institution
DFC       Development Finance Company
ECU       European Currency Units
EEC       European Economic Community
EDF       Export Development Fund
EIB       European Investment Bank
GOJ       Government of Jamaica
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICICI     Industrial Credit and Investment Corp. of India
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
JNIP      Jamaica National Investment Promotion, Ltd.
JECIC     Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation
JDB       Jamaica Development Bank
NDB       National Development Bank
PIC       Premier Investment Corporation
RF        Rehabilitation Fund
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SIFCO     Small Industries Finance Co.
TA        Technical Assistance
USAID     U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Jamaica: April 1 - March 31
National Development Bank:  October 1 - September 30



JAMAICA              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Government of Jamaica (GOJ)
Beneficiary:                  National Development Bank (NDB)
Amount:                       US$15.1 million equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:                        17 years, including four years' grace, repayable on a
fixed amortization schedule at the standard variable
interest rate.
Relending Terms:              The GOJ would relend to the NDB on the same terms as
the Bank loan, but in Jamaican dollars (J$) at the
official rate of exchange. The GOJ would bear the
foreign exchange risk. NDB would onlend to approved
financial intermediaries (AFIs) at an initial rate of
12% per annum, plus a 1% one time commitment fee.
AFIs would onlend to ultimate borrowing enterprises at
an initial 15% per annum, plus a one time commitment
fee not to exceed 2%. Onlending rates would be
adjusted periodically to reflect changed financial
market conditions. NDB and AFI subloans would be for
3 to 10 years, including a grace period on principal
repayments of up to 3 years. Subloans to enterprises
would be in J$ at the parallel market rate at the time
of NDB's approval of each subproject.
Loan Description:             The loan would assist in financing the foreign
exchange component of subloans extended by NDB to AFIs
for onlending to manufacturing, agro-industrial,
tourist and mining enterprises and to finance
technical assistance, training and equipment
requirements for NDB. AFIs would be expected to
evaluate and supervise their projects and bear the
entire commercial risk. NDB would review all projects
submitted for its financing, and be responsible for
the quality of appraisals. NDB requires the
calculation of financial internal rates of return for
all subprojects above J$100,000 and economic rates of
return for all subprojects above J$500,000. The
project would provide term financing for industry and
will complement the Government's efforts to encourage
industrial development, particularly for export
oriented industry.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                       There is a risk of delays in subloan processing and
disbursements which could be caused by lower than
anticipated subloan demand resulting from unfavorable
world economic conditions and the inexperience of NDB
and the AFIs. Some of the risks of such delays would
be minimized by the close supervision, advice and
assistance which the Bank staff intends to provide and
the technical assistance and training that may be
financed by the Bank and other sources. The risks
associated with the project are acceptable.
Estimated Costs and                   Amount
Sources of Financing        Foreign    Local!/    Total
(million of US$ equivalent)
IBRD                       15.1          -          15.0
NDB                         -           2.9          2.9
Sub-borrowers               -           5.2         5.2
Total                 15.1        8.1         23.2
Estimated Dibursements:                 Bank Fiscal Years
--------  (US$ million    ----
FY84        FY85        FY86       FY87     FY88
Annual                      0.2          4.1         7.5       3.1       0.2
Cumulative                  0.2          4.3        11.8      14.9      15.1
Rate of Return:              Not applicable
Project Completion Date:    December 31, 1987
Staff Appraisal Report:      Report No. 4397, dated April: 26, 1983.
4
1/ Converted at an assumed parallel market rate of J$2.60 to US$1.00.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$15.1 million to help finance an
industrial credit project. The lpan would have a term of 17 years,
repayable on a fixed amortization schedule, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at the standard variable rate. The proceeds of the loan
would be onlent to the National Development Bank (NDB) for lending through
financial intermediaries to manufacturing, agro-industrial, tourist and
mining enterprises.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Structural Adjustment, Export
Development and Private Investment" was distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors in June 1982. Annex I contains the basic country data.
A. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
3.        The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brisk growth perfor-
mance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external shocks and the impact of domestic policies. As a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth. Manufacturing declined by 31%, and construction by
58%. The share of investment expenditures declined from 22% of GDP in
1974-75 to 12-15% of GDP in 1977-80, while consumption expenditures
increased proportionately, reflecting the private sector's declining
confidence and a rapid expansion of Government current expenditures.
4.        As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public
sector, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Govern-
ment current account, which had registered a surplus of 6% of GDP in
1974/75, showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which
was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declin-
ing production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing,
sugar and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.
The current account deficit on the balance of payments reached a high of
11% of GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979.
Lack of confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so
the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from
17% of GDP in 1973 to 46% of GDP in 1980, and in declining net interna-
tional reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to US$-532 million
in 1980, with gros's reserves down to four weeks' imports.



B. Development Strategy
5.        The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committ-
ed to a reform of past economic policies, and to the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s.  It saw the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOM, was considered
the main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to
improve the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract
foreign private investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.        The new Government quickly established relations with the IMF and
in March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility
Arrangement and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would
together provide SDR 536 million over the three-year period. The
Government also requested a structural adjustment loan from the World Bank,
and a first such loan, for US$76.2 million was approved in March 1982. The
SAL included conditions in balance of payments management, industry,
agriculture, and savings and investment, both public and private. A second
SAL is under preparation.
7.        One of the binding constraints on the economy during the 1970s--
and, of course, for the incoming Government--had been the balance of pay-
ments, and the shortage of foreign exchange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving. One aspect was to attract a high level of official assist-
ance from bilateral and multilateral sources during the first few years of
the economic recovery program, to finance an increased volume of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system of allocation controlled
primarily by market forces.
8.        An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an "example" to
others.



- 3 -
9.        The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was
to decriminalize the informal foreign exchange market, and to issue import
licenses to be funded through purchases on this market (so-called "no-
funds" licenses) on a liberal basis. The second step took place early in
1983. It consisted of the full legalization of the parallel market, forma-
lization of its operations through institutionalization within the commer-
cial banking system, and a simplification of the import licensing arrange-
ments. A far more automatic system was established, based primarily on
possession of foreign exchange, which was in turn determined essentially by
market forces. There remains considerable administrative intervention in
the system, despite these reforms, because of the continued existence of
quantitative restrictions, and the existence of foreign exchange quotas for
non-exporters. However, Government is committed to the gradual elimination
of all remaining administrative controls over the operation of the foreign
exchange market.
10.       The manufacturing sector--together with agriculture and
tourism--was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular
for an immediate expansion of exports. It suffered from three major pro-
blems: (i) an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports,
because of the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a
result of a shortage of foreign exchange; and (iii) outmoded,
inappropriate, and badly-working capital equipment, because of a lack of
investment during the 1970s, and the unavailability of foreign exchange for
spare parts. To reorient the sector, the Government is attempting to
redress the balance of incentives towards export markets, by gradually
eliminating the main means of protection, the quantitative restrictions, by
the introduction of an export incentive whereby exporters may retain 50% of
their earnings from exports to third markets, and sell these at the
parallel rate, and by the expansion and liberalization of the Export
Development Fund, which provides exporters with foreign exchange to acquire
needed imports. Private investment, particularly from overseas, is being
actively encouraged, through the general improvement in the investment
climate, and through an agressive investment promotion agency.
11.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst
the productive sectors during the 1970s. However, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export
agriculture had steadily declined. Government was committed to a revival
of export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this
goal, including: (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and
the encouragement of private sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,
through a termination of the monopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (EMOs), and a rationalization of the activities of the EMOs;
(iii) the application of export incentives to nontraditional agricultural
exports (i.e., excluding sugar and bananas); and (iv) the encouragement of
private investment, which has to date included major investments in coffee,
bananas, floriculture, and winter vegetables.



- 4 -
12.       Tourism was seen as the other sector capable of an immediate
expansion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very
low levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive
promotion campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the
negative image of lawlessness and antagonism to foreigners that had been
created in the seventies and that had seriously damaged the tourist trade.
Several Government-owned and operated hotels were leased to the private
sector, under terms where initial rents could be used for refurbishing. In
addition, the decriminalization and subsequent formalization of the
parallel market permitted an effective reduction in the price of tourism in
Jamaica, increasing its price competitiveness. The collective results of
this effort has been a rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-30% a year)
at a time when tourism in the Caribbean has been falling by 7-10% a year.
13.       Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/alumina
sector as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this
sector has suffered in 1981 and 1982 was not expected or provided for in
the Government's scenario. Rather, it had been expected to continue at a
similar or slightly higher level of output. The Government agreed to
discuss changes in the production levy in relation to new investments by
the companies, but no major changes have yet been introduced. In recent
months, the Government has been very active in attempting to negotiate
bauxite/alumina barter deals, in order to attempt to maintain the level of
output, or prevent it from falling even farther, and some success has been
achieved.
14.       Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth--the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower.
There was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts
have been made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing
efforts to upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those
of new entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in
attracting people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to
development.
C. Economic Performance in 1981 and 1982
15.       In contrast to the sharp decline of the 1973-80 period, the
Jamaican economy grew in 1981 by 1.9%.  Construction and non-government
services were the leading growth sectors, but most productive sectors
responded positively to the improvement in the business climate and the
greater availability of foreign exchange.  Unemployment and inflation both
decreased, the former modestly, but the latter dramatically, falling from
28% in 1980 to only 4.7% in 1981. The fiscal situation also improved, in
particular as a result of improved tax collection, and the current and
overall deficits improved by about 4% of GDP with the financing of these
deficits coming largely from external official sources. However, the
current account deficit on the balance of payments increased sharply to
15.6% of GDP in 1981, although this had been largely anticipated. Never-
theless, with high levels of official capital inflow, an overall surplus of
US$43 million was achieved.



- 5 -
16.       In 1982, the Jamaican economy was severely affected by the inter-
national recession. In particular, output of bauxite/alumina declined by
26%, equivalent to 2.7% of GDP; consequently, overall GDP growth was only
0.7%. The severity of the decline in bauxite/alumina in 1982 reflects the
decision by the companies to maintain output in 1981, in the hope of a
recovery in 1982, which resulted in large stocks, and also the presence in
Jamaica of those aluminum companies most affected by the recession. If the
bauxite/alumina sector is excluded, real growth was 3.4%, with particularly
strong performance again in construction, non-government services, and
manufacturing. However, there was also a decline in agriculture,
reflecting stagnation in sugar production and slower than expected recovery
of bananas, and the depressive effect on output of other crops of the
greater availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports.
17.       The decline in bauxite/alumina also affected the public
finances. The loss of revenue from the bauxite production levy amounted to
J$109 million (1.9% of GDP) . In addition, expected Bank of Jamaica
profits (0.7% of GDP) failed to materialize. Despite a further 23%
increase in tax revenue, the Central Government current deficit worsened
from 2% of GDP to 3.9% of GDP and consequently the overall deficit
increased to 15.5% of GDP from 14.2% the previous year, with two-thirds of
the financing required coming from external sources. This, in turn,
permitted a rapid increase in credit to the private sector.
18.       With the decline in bauxite/alumina, total merchandise exports
are estimated to have declined by 17% and merchandise imports by 8% in
1982. Non-bauxite exports rose by about 10%, and with tourism earnings
rising by a further 12%, and transfers by 28%, the current account on the
balance of payments improved to an estimated 13.4% of GDP. However, the
expected level of net capital inflows did not emerge, and this caused
difficulties with the net foreign assets target of the EFF. Consequently,
an adjustment of the target for the third year of the arrangement is
currently being negotiated between the Government and the IMF. The high
level of capital inflow in 1981 and 1982 has considerably increased public
debt, which had risen to 73% of GDP by March 1983; debt service rose to 24%
of exports of goods and services in 1982.
D. Economic Prospects
19.       The economic recovery program has begun to reverse the negative
trends of the economy, and this process is expected to continue. GDP
growth is projected to aveItge 3-5% over the next five years, on the as-
sumption that there is a recovery in the economies of the OECD countries.
This is a critical assumption, particularly with respect to bauxite/
alumina, tourism and manufactured exports. Even with this rate of growth,
GDP per capita in 1986 would still be 12% below the 1972 peak. Moreover,
most of the recovery would be concentrated on raising domestically financed
investment levels rather than consumption, which is projected to grow very
modestly, with national savings rising from 8.7% of GDP in 1982 to 14.2% in
1986.



-6-
20.       As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, with the recovery in the OECD countries, exports of goods and
services are projected to grow by about 11% a year, largely reflecting re-
covery from present depressed levels. Bauxite/alumina exports would re-
cover their 1981 level by 1986, and sugar and banana exports are projected
to increase as a result of rehabilitation programs to the point where they
can satisfy, from domestic production, the protected EEC or US markets.
With imports projected to grow less rapidly, the current account of the
balance of payments is expected to improve gradually from the present level
of -13.3% of GDP, to a level of about -5.8% of GDP in 1986.
21.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over
the period, but would need to average about US$350 million a year.  With
high levels of amortization payments, this would mean that gross inflows
would have to average over US$500 million per annum; private flows are
expected to increase gradually, and to supply about one third of the
required inflow over the period. Debt service levels will remain high, and
are projected to still be at a level of 23% of exports of goods and
services in 1986. This is considered manageable; provided that Jamaica
continues to pursue successfully its present stabilization and economic
recovery program, it should be considered creditworthy for continued
external borrowing on concessional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
22.       The Bank has made 30 loansl/ in Jamaica totalling US$463.3
million after cancellations. Of this amount, US$147.9 million (32%) has
been for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power,
water supply and sewerage; US$180.8 million (39%) for program-type lending,
related technical assistance, and for a revolving fund for financing of
inputs for export industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture
and agroindustry (9%),'education (9%), sites and services (3%), forestry
(3%), population and nutrition (2%), small-scale enterprises (2%), and
petroleum exploration (2%). As of March 31, 1982, Jamaica's debt to the
Bank stood at US$302 million, or 16.5% of external debt outstanding and
disbursed; debt service to the Bank during the previous fiscal year
amounted to US$36.2 million, or 13.5% of total debt service. These shares
are not expected to change substantially in the next five years. The
undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of March 31, 1983 amounted to US$87.5
milllion. There have been four IFC investments in Jamaica, with the most
recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour mill company.
23.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
1/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone company and cancelled in the same year.



- 7 -
response to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank
lending took thplace in late '70s which gave priority to financing to help
relieve the prcountry's pressing balance of payments problems and improve
Jamaica's export performance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending program
contained a $30 million program loan and an $18 million loan for the
rehabilitation of factories for Jamaica's export oriented sugar industry.
The Bank's second $31.5 million program loan in FY79 was also directed at
providing needed balance of payments support, with most of the proceeds
allocated to the financing of the import needs of export industries through
the establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund. A second $37
million loan to augment the resources of the Export Development Fund was
made in FY81. Bank lending to Jamaica has recognized that resolution of
the country's balance of payments difficulties will require making
adjustments to the economy over a period of time. As a result, a $76.2
million Structural Adjustment loan was made in FY82. The technical
assistance requirements of the structural adjustment program were met
through a $6.1 million technical assistance loan made in the same year.
Additional support for the Government's export program was contained in a
$13.5 million loan in FY82 for the expansion of a free zone project in
Kingston.
24.       Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of
maintenance and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided a $16
million loan for highway maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 and a $30.5
million loan for a similar purpose for the electric power system in FY82.
25e       Future Bank lending is likely to be directed at the following
areas: a) bupport for the structural adjustment program; b) projects in
support of export development; and c) projects aimed at conserving existing
investment. In later years of the program, when the country is better able
to deal with its short and medium term balance of payments situation, the
Bank lending strategy contemplates greater emphasis on more socially
oriented projects.
26.       Loans concurrently in preparation include a highway maintenance
loan, a second structural adjustment loan and a third loan to finance the
import requirements of exporters through the Export Development Fund.
Other projects under consideration for Bank financing include a loan to
strengthen the Agricultural Credit Bank and to provide longer-term credit
and technical assistance in the export agricultural sector and a project to
upgrade transportation in the Kingston area. If the Government's
structural adjustment program continues to be executed as projected with
the expected results, further structural adjustment loans may also be
considered.
27.       Disbursements of Bank loans in Jamaica have been timely, on the
average, in recent years. This largely reflects the high proportion of
quickly disbursing program and structural adjustment lending. Many project
loans, however, encountered delays in execution in the middle and late
1970's, reflecting primarily the country's difficult economic
circumstances, resulting in fiscal and foreign exchange constraints, and
institutional weaknesses, exacerbated by an exodus of skilled and
managerial personnel. Performance of ongoing projects in the last two



- 8 -
years has improved, as the economic environment became more favorable. The
single most serious obstacle to timely project execution remains the lack
of skilled personnel in the public sector. Current Bank lending attempts
to address this problem in part through the provision of substantial levels
of technical assistance and an even greater focus on institution-building
than in the past.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS 2/
A. The Industrial Sector
Manufacturing - Recent Developments
28.        During the long recession of 1973 to 1980, industrial activity
declined by over 30% which is substantially above the decline of the
overall economy. Consequently, the share of manufacturing in GDP fell
during this period from about 18% to 15%. During the period 1974-1980 the
industrialization of Jamaica suffered a serious reversal. The economic
policies which were in part responsible for these adverse developments are
currently being revised and the industrial sector has recently returned to
growth, although still at low rates of 0.4% in 1981 and 3% in 1982.
29         The past industrial decline has not changed the main character of
Jamaica's manufacturing sector which remains largely organized in medium
size factories. The number of registered factories has remained
practically unchanged since 1973 at about 1,250, but as factory employment
declined from a peak of about 55,000 in 1974 to 44,000 in 1980, average
employment per factory fell from 43 workers in 1974 to 36 in 1980. Only a
few plants, principally in food, beverages and tobacco processing have a
work force of over 500. These sub-sectors, together with footwear
manufacturing, oil refining, tire manufacturing and production of packaging
materials also have the highest degree of industrial concentration with a
small number of enterprises controlling major shares of domestic market
production.
30.        The share of manufacturing employment declined from 12.5% of the
employed labor force in 1973 to about 10.5% in 1980. Most of the reduction
of manufacturing employment occurred in the registered factory sector which
cut employment by 11,000 workers. As the economy recovered in 1981 and
1982,unemployment declined slightly from 28% in 1980 to 27% in April 1982.
During 1981 and 1982 about 15,000 manufacturing jobs were added, largely in
the registered factories, and industrial employment in 1982 was above the
level reached before the recession. Labor productivity continued to fall
in 1981 and 1982, while real wages seem to have stabilized.
2/ Part III of this report is substantially the same as Part III of the
President's Report on the proposed Third Export Development Fund
project.



Industrial Policies
31.       Trade policies are of crucial importance in Jamaica for achieving
sustained industrial growth. Effective protection of the domestic market
is high and prices of some consumers goods (e.g., shirts and footwear) are
more than 100% above world market levels. Jamaica is a member of the
Caribbean Economic Community (CARICOM) and applies CARICOM's common exter-
nal tariff system to imports originating in third countries. In general,
tariff levels are moderate, varying on average between 15% for raw mate-
rials and 45% for consumer goods, and duty exemptions are widespread. Most
duty exemptions are for imports of raw materials and capital goods which
has contributed to creating a capital intensive and import dependent indus-
trial sector.
32.       Quantitative import restrictions are the most important instru-
ment in Jamaica's protection system. Imports are subject to licensing and
are categorized into restricted and non-restricted items. The restricted
list includes about 240 important domestic products that may be imported
only under special licenses issued after detailed analysis by government
institutions. This list is being gradually reduced and is to be eliminated
by 1985. Until January 1983, the process of granting import licenses was
extremely complex and without consistent criteria. Presently, a revised
import licensing system is in operation which provides Jamaican industry
with automatic licenses for all except a few restricted production inputs.
33.       Until early 1983, the scarcity of foreign exchange, and the
related cumbersome import licensing system, constituted important obstacles
to industrial investment and production. Industrial importers of raw
materials and capital goods competed for a declining share of licenses
funded with foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Since the
institutionalization of the parallel market in early 1983, the uncertainty
about the availability of foreign exchange has practically been removed.
Industrial inputs can be imported with foreign exchange certificates
purchased in the parallel exchange market and automatic licenses are
provided for all unrestricted goods. While imported inputs are now
considerably more costly in terms of domestic currency, their availability
should have a positive effect on planning of production and investments in
manufacturing.
34.       Industrial incentives in Jamaica consist mainly of import duty
exonerations on capital goods and corporate tax exemptions for up to ten
years.  They are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and
Jamaica National Investment Promotion, Ltd. (JNIP) and decisions for
granting the incentives are made by an inter-ministerial Committee chaired
by the Prime Minister.  The continued high rate of registration for
incentives (20 in 1982) is an indication of their effectiveness in
encouraging industrial investments. However, the duty exemptions have an
undesirable effect of providing significant support to industries and
enterprises with high capital intensity, which is particularly undesirable,
given Jamaica's unemployment problems. These duty exemptions are granted
by all CARICOM countries, in the framework of regional industrial
incentives agreements and cannot be removed unilaterally. The Government
is aware of these problems and is discussing them with Jamaica's CARICOM
partners.



- 10 -
Exports
35.       The bulk of Jamaica's foreign exchange earnings from commodity
exports results from traditional products: bauxite, alumina, sugar and
bananas, whose share in total exports has remained stable at over 80% in
recent years. On the other hand exports of manufactured products
(excluding petroleum products) have more than doubled in current US dollars
since 1972, reaching US$115 million in 1982, or 16.4% of all exports.
Processed foods, beverages, tobacco products and machinery and equipment
registered real export growth during 1972-1981, while chemicals and
textiles, garments and footwear exports suffered real declines.
Manufacturing exports in 1982 were rather disappointing, when the upturn
initiated in 1981 was not sustained and exports declined by about 4% in
constant prices.
36.       The direction of manufactured exports has changed substantially
since 1972. The share of manufactured exports which went to the protected
CARICOM market increased from one third in 1972 to over 70% in 1982. Since
1977, third market manufactured exports have stagnated in current prices at
somewhat above US$40 million per year. Currently, only tobacco products,
rum and small quantities of processed foods and garments are exported to
countries outside of the CARICOM area. The remarkable export growth to the
small CARICOM market was largely due to the purchasing power increases
experienced by oil-rich Trinidad and Tobago which bought over two-third of
Jamaica's manufactured exports to CARICOM in 1982. However, the future
growth of Jamaica's exports require development of third countries'
markets.
37.       In the policy package adopted by the Government in early 1983 in
conjunction with the Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan to Jamaica,
the export incentives and measures to reform import licensing are the most
important steps to both achieve substantial export growth and raise the
efficiency of domestic market oriented industry. Exporters of manufactured
and non-traditional agricultural products are now permitted to retain 50%
of their foreign exchange proceeds from sales in third countries to pay for
their own imports or sell the foreign exchange at a market determined rate
to other manufacturers. The resulting improvement of export profitability
was about 25% of export value, at the end of February 1983. Under the
reformed import licensing system all enterprises exporting more than 5% of
their production are obtaining unrestricted and automatic access to
imported production inputs at the parallel exchange rate; while this does
not improve export profitability, planning for efficient investment and
production of export manufacturing is now again possible.
Prospects for Industrial Exports and Investment
38.       The medium-term outlook of Jamaican manufactured exports for 1984
and 1985 is largely determined by the prospects for a successful structural
adjustment of the economy. In particular, third market exports which face
few demand constraints, are expected to grow largely in line with the
capability of Jamaican industry to produce exportable goods. Some supply
limitations remain fpr resource-based products (foods, tobacco products),
but most of other products, particularly garments, footwear, metal products



- 11 -
and machinery, would only be constrained by inadequate price and quality
competitiveness. Considering the supportive measures initiated and planned
by the Government to secure the price competitiveness of Jamaican exports,
third market exports should rise at high rates in the medium term.   (See
paragraphs 10 and 37 for a discussion of the Government's incentive program
for export.) Growth rates of 20% to 30% p.a. in current US dollars for
third market exports seem to be feasible. CARICOM exports, on the other
hand, may suffer to an increasing extent from limitations imposed by the
small market, and growth rates ranging from 5% to 15% p.a. during 1984 and
1985 seem to be realistic. The provisions of the Bank's proposed second
SAL to increase and maintain the competitiveness of Jamaican exports
through incentives and deregulation--and the foreign exchange financing of
4        imported inputs through the proposed Third Export Development Fund
project--should help assure continued growth of exports.
39.       Since resumption of the industrial growth in 1981, investments in
manufacturing have increased at a high rate. The major part of investments
was and will probably continue to be for replacement of obsolete equipment,
since much of Jamaican industrial production capacity is run-down after
many years of inadequate investments. Precise industrial investment
estimates are practically impossible because of insufficient statistical
data, but imports of non-automotive machinery and equipment for industry
could form a reasonable base for a projection. These imports were over
US$100 million per year in 1981 and 1982. Taking into account the real
growth of this base and international price increases as well as additional
requirements for permanent working capital of industry, industrial
investments (public and private) could average about US$150 million per
year during the 1983-85 period.
B. The Financial Sector
Financial Institutions
40.       Jamaica's financial institutions include:  (a) a central bank,
Bank of Jamaica (BOJ); (b) 9 commercial banks with 150 branches; (c)
merchant banks; (d) trust companies; (e) building societies; (f) a mortgage
bank; and (g) development finance institutions.
41.       Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) is responsible for the issue of currency.
It acts as the government's bank by keeping the government's accounts and
providing advice on financial policy formulation, and as the bankers' bank,
it regulates, keeps accounts of and provide clearing facilities to the
commercial banks. It also administers foreign exchange reserves and
executes monetary policy decisions which must be agreed with the Minister
of Finance. In addition to its central bank function, BOJ has a number of
specialized agencies through which it provides student loans, oversees the
stock exchange, insures and finances exporters, and extends term credit for
private enterprises using credit lines from international and foreign
institutions. All its credit operations are conducted through commercial
banks.



- 12 -
42.       The Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation (JECIC), an
agency of BOJ provides various facilities to exporters. It offers export
credit insurance, an important means of protecting the exporter's foreign
receivables against commercial and political risks of default and delayed
payments which are beyond the exporter's control. It enables a Jamaican
exporter to compete more effectively for overseas business and permits him
to assign his bills and foreign receivables to his commercial bank thereby
facilitating access to bank financing, sometimes on more advantageous
terms. JECIC has had since the mid-1970s 3 specialized programs of finan-
cial support to help meet the needs of Jamaican exporters for short-term
working capital during both pre-and post-shipment periods.  All these oper-
ations are through commercial banks. The Pre-Shipment Financing Facility
is intended to provide pre-shipment short-term assistance for the exporter
up to 60% of the FOB value of an export order promissory note.  Under the
post-shipment financing JECIC through its Export Credit Facility provides
90-day credits for up to 100% of the CIF value of the exported goods.
Furthermore, JECIC may issue, through its Bankers' Export Guarantee Facil-
ity, an unconditional guarantee to the commercial bank on the amount
advanced to an exporter which remains unpaid due to the buyer's failure to
make payment on the due date. In this way it eases constraint on the
exporter's liquidity. In addition, the Export Development Fund (EDF),
which was established in 1979 as a subsidiary of the BOJ, provides credit
and foreign exchange to certified exporters, enabling them to purchase the
imported inputs required for their export sales.
43.       With the establishment of EDF, the use of the other discount
facilities has been limited to non-EDF clients and their operations have
drastically declined. On the other hand credit risks on the sub-loans made
by commercial banks under EDF as well as under the Rehabilitation Fund pro-
gram financed by IDB could be guaranteed up to 80% by JECIC under its
Banker's Import Guarantee program thus enabling the banks' marginal custom-
ers to have access to financing offered by these funds. JECIC also admin-
isters for BOJ special credit lines provided by a number of governments,
foreign banks and export organizations to facilitate Jamaican imports and
generally tied to country of procurement and governed by special terms and
conditions.
44.       A separate agency of BOJ, Premier Investment Corp. (PIC) has been
providing credit, through commercial banks for small businesses, primarily
under World Bank financing. Since 1982 its activities have been largely
limited to collection of outstanding loans and are being phased out (see
paragraph 47 below).
45.       Commercial banks are mainly locally owned but still retain strong
ties with their present or past parent institutions in Canada, England and
USA. They generally follow the traditional banking principles of safety
and liquidity, making mostly well secured short-term loans which can be
rolled over subject to yearly reviews. About 10% of their portfolios are
in mortgage loans to selected clients, secured either by residental proper-
ties valued at least 25% above the loan amount, or by tangible business
assets valued 50% or more over the loan. In addition, commercial banks
usually establish a "ceiling" for each borrower above which they will not
lend irrespective of additional collateral or activity to be financed. In



- 13 -
1982, the commercial banks' outstanding loans for manufacturing activities
amounted to over J$320 million, representing over 20% of their overall loan
portfolios.
46.       Some industrial financing is provided by merchant banks but their
total lending operations represent about 3.5% of the commercial banks' loan
portfolio (1982). They accept time deposits but have no current accounts.
Although authorized to make equity investments, their assets are mainly in
short-and medium-term loans. Since their capitalization is very low (about
5% of total assets) and their activities are concentrated on a few selected
customers, they will be allowed to use financing under the proposed project
only up to double the amount of their equity. Trust companies, building
societies and mortgage bank - finance primarily residential and commercial
mortgages.
47.       Development Finance Institutions (DFI).  Until mid-1981 there
were 3 public DFIs involved in industrial lending--the Jamaica Development
Bank (JDB), the Small Industries Finance Co. (SIFCO) and PIC. In 1981 the
Government decided to gradually phase out all these institutions, and to
establish the National Development Bank (NDB) as the only public sector
bank to provide industrial financing through commercial banks and other
financial intermediaries. At the same time, the Government established the
Agricultural Credit Bank to consolidate public sector financing in the
agricultural sector. At present, the three DFIs named above do not make
new loans and only administer their existing loan portfolio and collect
outstanding loans. It is the government's stated intention to liquidate
them as soon as legal and administrative aspects can be worked out and the
final audit establishes their net portfolio and asset value. In the
meantime, a common Board of Directors has been appointed for NDB, JDB and
SIFCO to oversee an orderly liquidation of the last two institutions.
Liquidation proceedings on PIC are to be undertaken as soon as its 1982
audit is available.
Instruments of Monetary Policy
48.       The main instruments of monetary policy are as follows:
(i)  The Bank Rate is the interest rate charged by BOJ on its loans to
commercial banks for meeting their liquidity requirements.
Traditionally, the prime lending rate of the commercial banks has
been two percentage points above the Bank Rate. Since January
1980 the Bank Rate has been 11% p.a.
(ii)  Reserve Requirements are the amount of cash reserves and liquid
assets that banks are required to hold. Required cash reserves
have never been changed from their initial level of 5% of the
commercial bank deposits. However, the liquid assets ratio (cash
and short-term assets of up to 9 months maturity to total
deposits) has varied and is presently at 29.5%. In January 1979
BOJ approved a "voluntary" increase in the liquid assets ratio to
40%, which represents the present effective reserve requirement.
The "voluntary" reserves are held in Treasury Bills now yielding
about 10% p.a.



- 14 -
49.       In addition to the above regulatory instruments of monetary
policy,BOJ may use selective credit controls (used in 1980 to limit
consumer's credit), and moral suasion to affect the credit supply of the
commercial banks. Because the securities market is very narrow, open
market operations cannot be effectively applied. In general, the monetary
policy instruments have not been used effectively in Jamaica. The supply
of domestic credit largely depends on the volume of exports and the
government's budgetary situation. The banking system had high levels of
liquidity during most of 1982, because of a rapid increase in deposits.
Towards the end of the year and in early 1983 liquidity declined as the
rate of growth of deposits slowed and demand for credit from the private
sector increased rapidly.
Structure of Interest Rates
50.       Commercial banks do not pay interest on demand deposits.  On
savings accounts there is a fixed interest rate of 9% p.a. and time
deposits (6 months or more) pay between 7 1/2% to 13% p.a., depending on
the amount of deposit and its maturity. There is no official ceiling on
lending rates. The prime rate is 13% p.a. (2% above BOJ's discount rate)
but the typical effective rate is about 17% p.a. including banks' customary
charges. Some banks also charge an additional fee on undisbursed
balances. On this basis commercial banks earn an average interest spread
of about 5.2% p.a 3/
51.       Considering that the inflation rate in 1981 was about 4% and for
1982 is estimated at 8%, the existing lending interest rates were positive
in real terms. Following the establishment of the parallel market in
January 1983, domestic prices are expected to rise somewhat faster, but
after a short adjustment period they should stabilize and then follow the
level of international prices. Thus, the onlending rates in the proposed
project are expected to be positive.
Demand for Investment Financing
52.       Total industrial investment in Jamaica could average US$150
million per year during 1983-85 subject to foreign exchange availability.
Most of the projected investment would consist of expenditures for spare
parts and intermediate goods to replenish worn out equipment and depleted
stocks and should be financed from export proceeds and by short-to-medium
term credit arranged by BOJ and its dependencies and/or by commercial
banks. The balance of the investment projection includes the effective
demand for term financing of development projects of new or expanding
enterprises. It is difficult to estimate investment credit demand in the
absence of recent long-term financing experience and an existing project                      4
pipeline. However, based on inquiries made by industries to commercial
banks and the government agency responsible for industrial promotion,
demand for NDB,s foreign currency financing is estimated at about US$15
million per year over the next two to three years.
3/ Based on: (a) savings and time deposits being 75% of total deposits at
an average cost to commercial banks of 7.5% p.a.; and (b) average
earnings on the required reserves being 6.2% p.a., and 17% p.a. on
credit.



- 15 -
53.       There are, however, two constraining factors that tend to reduce
the effective demand for investment financing:
(a) The administrative lending "ceiling" of commercial banks,
although applied with varying degree of flexibility, could make
it difficult, especially for new and/or smaller enterprises, to
obtain financing for a justified expansion or promising
industrial venture. Since commercial banks will be the principal
intermediaries of the proposed project, special efforts should be
made to increase their lending flexibility and reliance on
project appraisals. Contracting of an operations manager for NDB
experienced in development and commercial banking as well as
t                   intensive training seminars to be arranged by NDB should be of
assistance towards resolution of this problem. Also, the
exclusion of NDB sub-loans from the commercial banks' reserve
requirements should induce the banks to increase their project
lending.
(b) Scarcity of equity capital and the apparent undercapitalization
of the existing industrial enterprises could be a limiting factor
to financing of industrial projects. This results from
industrial decapitalization during the years of economic
stagnation prior to 1980, and a still uncertain investment
climate. While commercial banks often obtain the borrower's
pledge, usually supported by tangible assets that could be sold
at the banker's discretion, this arrangement would not improve
the financial position of the financed enterprise or the
soundness of its project. Beneficiaries under the proposed
project will be required to contribute a minimum equity of
between 20-25% by the time the project is completed in order to
strengthen the financial position of their enterprises.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       The project was identified by the Bank in early 1982 and was
prepared by the NDB with the assistance of the Bank and the Industrial
Credit and Investment Corp. of India (ICICI). ICICI provided assistance in
drafting policies and operating criteria for NDB under a contract financed
by the Bank Technical Assistance Loan (2106-JM) to Jamaica. The project
was appraised in November/December 1982. Negotiations for the proposed
loan took place in Washington in April 1983. The Jamaican delegation was
led by Mr. Harold Milner and Dr. Marshall Hall. Annex III contains a
timetable of key events in processing the project and a description of the
special conditions of the proposed loan.
Previous Lending Operations
55.       The Bank has been involved in industrial credit in Jamaica since
1974, beginning with a US$1.9 million component of the Sites and Services
Project (No. 1003-4M), followed by the US$7.0 million Small Scale Enterpris
Development Project (No. 1609-JM) in 1978, and two Export Development Fund
(EDF) Projects, (a US$31.5 million loan (No. 1715-JM) in 1974 and a US$37.0



- 16 -
million loan (No. 1978-JM) in 1981). Except for a small amount of funds
for technical assistance in Loan 1978-JM, all loans have been committed and
almost fully disbursed. Both EDF projects were successful in ensuring the
availability of imported inputs for industrial exporters; a third EDF
project is under consideration. Disbursements under the Sites and Services
and the Small Scale Enterprise Development Projects were slow due to
institutional changes undertaken by the Government of Jamaica during
implementation of the loans.
56.       The principal development lending institution in Jamaica has been
the Jamaica Development Bank (JDB), which has been responsible for both
industrial and agricultural lending. There have also been other Government
development lending institutions principally responsible for lending to                       )
smaller enterprises. These institutions and their predecessors have not
always performed well and have had a historically poor record of collecting
debt service payments. As a result, the Government decided in 1981 to
phase out JDB and other direct lending by Government development banking
institutions and establish NDB as a new second tier institution that would
be insulated from the credit risk by onlending through the commercial
banking system.
Project Objectives
57.       The overall purpose of the proposed project is to assist the
Government of Jamaica in establishing an effective institutional system
that would encourage private innovation and risk-taking and assure
investment financing for sound industrial enterprises and their projects
for export and/or efficient import substitution. The project--jointly with
the proposed second SAL and third EDF loan--will also provide the Bank with
an opportunity to exchange views with the Government on the effectiveness
of existing policy measures and on possible changes conducive to increase
industrial efficiency.
58.       More specifically, the project is designed to:
(a) assist in the establishment of NDB as a sound development
financing institution;
(b)  provide term financing to NDB for onlending through approved
financial intermediaries (AFIs) for sound industrial projects of
new and expanding private enterprises and, in the process, to
improve the financial position and efficiency of these
enterprises; and
(c) induce commercial banks and other financial intermediaries to
undertake appraisal, financing and supervision of sound
investment projects.
Project Description
59.       The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange component of
subloans extended by NDB for subprojects in the manufacturing, industrial,
agro-industrial, mining and tourism sectors, including associated service



- 17 -
enterprises. NDB loans will be private sector oriented. Unless agreed
otherwise, no large bauxite-alumina enterprises will be financed under the
proposed Bank loan (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). The loan will
finance construction and/or modification of industrial structures, purchase
of machinery, equipment and other moveable fixed assets, permanent working
capital, 4/ and technical assistance to final beneficiaries for
preinvestment and market studies, training and consulting services.
60.       NDB would begin its operations as a second-tier institution
making loans through a network of approved AFIs. However, under its policy
statement NDB is also permitted to issue guarantees, enter into cofinancing
arrangements, extend direct loans, make underwriting commitments, and
participate in equity investment for promotional purposes as long as such
investment does not not exceed 20% of the enterprise's equity or 5% of
NDB's net worth, whichever is lower. These additional activities must
first be determined as necessary and approved by the NDB Board of Directors
and appropriate operating procedures need to be worked out. NDB would
exchange views with the Bank prior to engaging in such additional
activities (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
61.       NDB has submitted a satisfactory training plan to the Bank where
most of the needs for technical assistance will be met from a planned grant
financed program of the Inter-American Development Bank. Bank loan funds,
however, may be used to finance such technical assistance and training
needs as are not satisfied by the IDB program, and in particular those of a
short term nature. In addition, up to $100,000 of loan funds may be
available to finance NDB's microcomputer, software and office equipment
requirements.
Loan Terms
62.       The amount of the proposed loan will be US$15.1 million including
the front-end fee of 0.25%. The loan will be made to the Government of
Jamaica at the Bank's flexible interest rate, and standard commitment fee
of 3/4 of 1% p.a. It will be repaid in 17 years, including 4 years of
grace. The Government will onlend the loan proceeds to NDB on the same
terms and conditions, but in Jamaican dollars valued at the official
exchange rate. The Government will assume the foreign exchange risk. The
Government's subsidiary loan agreement with NDB will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.02).
The National Development Bank
63.       The NDB was established in June 1981 under the Companies Act and
was inaugurated in November 1982. It is fully owned by the Government of
Jamaica. Its Board of Directors consists of eight members, four of whom
are from the private sector, including the Board's Chairman. The Managing
Director of NDB is a well qualified individual, with banking and private
4/ The initial stock of raw materials and supplies, or the increase in
such stock needed for the expansion of operations.



- 18 -
enterprise background. However, he needs some support in development
banking operations. NDB has engaged an experienced foreign adviser,
financed in part by the Bank's Technical Assistance Loan, as operations
manager to assist the Managing Director for one year.
64.       Because NDB will have the ultimate responsibility for financing
only sound projects, and for overseeing their supervision, it needs to have
a modest but well qualified professional staff, including economists,
financial analysts and engineers. Its present project unit consists of 4
professionals headed by an experienced project analyst who is.capable of
supervising and providing on-the-job training for his staff. NDB is
presently completing recruitment of additional professional and supporting
staff.  As noted in para. 61, the IDB and, as necessary, the Bank will
assist NDB with its technical assistance and training needs.
65.       NDB's operations will be governed by the policy and strategy
statement and operating criteria, approved by NDB's Board of Directors on
October 14, 1982. NDB has agreed not to change the substance of these
documents without Bank prior concurrence (draft Loan Agreement, Section
5.01(c)). NDB will support only those enterprises which are financially
and economically viable. The maximum financial exposure of NDB in an
enterprise or a group of enterprises with joint capital or management
control will not exceed 25% of NDB's net worth. To ensure NDB's financial
soundness, its debt/equity ratio will be limited to 5:1 which is considered
feasible and reasonable for the initial period of NDB's operations. As NDB
gains experience this ratio could be changed with the Bank's explicit
concurrence.
66.       On the basis of its projected operation and financial statements
for the initial 5-year period, NDB will have adequate funds to service its
debts, and sufficient net income (after the 45% corporate tax) to gradually
accumulate capital reserves of about J$5.3 million by 1987. It should also
have adequate capital resources to support its projected operations within
the present debt-equity ratio. The Government has agreed to provide NDB
sufficient local resources to adequately capitalize NDB's future operations
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)) and to prevent NDB from incurring
any exchange losses resulting from its borrowing operations (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03).
Approved Financial Intermediaries (AFIs)
67.       Initial lending operations of NDB will be carried out through
intermediary financial institutions approved by NDB for participation in
the program. To meet NDB criteria each institution has to be properly
registered, and designate at least one senior executive with an appropriate
background to be responsible for project evaluation and coordination with
NDB.  At present there are 9 commercial and 6 merchant banks that could
participate in the proposed project. Three merchant banks are associated
with commercial banks and three are independent. As a safety precaution,
NDB has an exposure limit not to exceed two times the net worth the each
AFI except when an AFI presents a separate guarantee satisfactory to NDB.
This limit may be changed as more experience is gained, particularly with
merchant banks.



- 19 -
68.       Participating AFIs will assume the entire commercial risk for
their subloans and will be expected to participate in subproject financing,
providing at least the necessary short-term working capital. They will be
primarily responsible for appraisal and supervision of subprojects they
finance. Each AFI will be obliged to repay NDB according to an agreed
schedule irrespective of whether the sub-borrower meets his repayment
obligations. Rescheduling of subloans would be subject to NDB prior
concurrence.
69.       For their services and risk-taking AFIs will receive an interest
spread of 3% p.a. This rather modest spread, suggested by the Government,
has been accepted by potential AFIs but may be revised as experience is
gained regarding the performance of individual AFIs. As an inducement to
term lending by commercial banks, their loan portfolios financed by NDB
will be exempted from the central bank reserve requirements.
70.       Each AFI will be required to send to NDB semi-annually its
financial statements, annual estimates of its lending activities and copies
of subproject supervision reports. NDB will review annually the
performance of each AFI, make appropriate recommendations and, as needed,
provide appropriate staff training facilities.
Subprojects
71.       NDB's subloans will mature in 3 to 10 years including a grace
period on principal repayments of up to 3 years. NDB would onlend to AFIs
at an initial rate of at least 12% p.a. plus a one time 1% commitment fee.
AFIs would onlend to ultimate borrowing enterprises at an initial rate of
at least 15% p.a., plus a one time commitment fee not to exceed 2%.
Subloans to enterprises would be in Jamaican dollars at the parallel market
rate on the date of NDB's approval of such subloans. NDB's interest rates
will be adjusted, if warranted by market conditions, and subject to Bank
concurrence during the loan disbursement period in the case of subloans
financed out of the proceeds of the Bank loan. NDB and the Bank will
jointly review NDB's lending rates at least annually, with the first review
to be held not later than one year after the signing date of the Project
Agreement (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.03c).
72.       There will be no limit on the size of subloans, but sub-borrowers
will have to comply with a maximum debt to equity ratio of 4:1 in case of
subprojects with net fixed assets below J$300,000, and 3:1 with net fixed
assets above the amount. All subprojects will be appraised by AFIs, and
reviewed and approved by NDB. The financial internal rate of return (IRR)
will be calculated for all subprojects over J$100,000 and the economic rate
of return (ERR) for all subprojects over J$500,000. NDB's minimum
acceptable financial and economic rates of return are 12%. AFIs will have
responsibility for supervision of their subprojects and reporting to NDB.
NDB will ensure through staff visits and other means that proper
supervision is being carried out.



- 20 -
73.       All subproject financing of US$250,000 or more ("free limit")
will require prior Bank approval. No such subproject will be financed
under the proposed loan unless the ERR is at least 12%. The first 3
subprojects below the "free limit" will require the Bank's prior approval.
The above procedure is expected to result in review by the Bank of about
20-25 subprojects covering about 60% of the loan amount. In addition,
selected projects below the "free limit" will be reviewed by supervision
missions in the field.
Cost Estimates and Financing
74.       The proposed Bank financing of US$15 million will be used
exclusively for the foreign exchange component of subproject costs which is
estimated at 65%. Industrial beneficiaries will be required to contribute
on the average of 22.5% of subproject costs and NDB local resources will
finance the remaining 12.5%.
75.       Bank financing will cover about 53% of NDB's projected foreign
currency commitments (US$28.2 million) and 72% of projected foreign
currency disbursements (US$20.7 million) over a two-year period. Since NDB
has available about US$11.0 million from other foreign sources (ECU 5.0
million from the European Investment Bank and US$6.0 million from Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB)), it may need for new commitments additional foreign
financing by the end of CY1984 to ensure uninterrupted operation in 1985.
It is expected, however, that several bilateral and/or international
agencies will provide additional funds to permit NDB's operations beyond
the two year period.
Procurement
76.       Loan funds will finance the foreign exchange costs of imported
and locally procured equipment, materials and services, including the
foreign exchange component of construction contracts. Procurement of
consulting and training services will be open to international
recruitment. Procurement of equipment for NDB will require quotations from
at least three suppliers (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09). NDB and
AFIs will satisfy themselves that procurement items are suitable for the
respective investment subprojects and are reasonably priced, and that the
beneficiaries canvassed the main sources of supply and are purchasing from
the most advantageous source. Whenever feasible, at least three quotations
must be obtained by enterprises (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.04a).
Disbursements
77.       Disbursements will be made against standard documents following
direct disbursement and/or reimbursement procedures. Loan funds would
finance 100% of foreign costs for imported items purchased directly; 65% of
the cost of imported items purchased locally, 30% of civil works costs; and
100% of the cost of technical assistance and training.



- 21 -
78.       Since the NDB two-tier system involves double intermediation,
disbursements for subprojects will be made for expenditures incurred up to
180 days prior to the receipt by the Bank of NDB's request for approval or
financing of the respective subprojects. This follows practices
established in similar Bank operations.
Audit and Reporting Requirements
79.       The accounts of NDB will be audited annually by an external
auditor satisfactory to the Bank. Since NDB's fiscal year ends in
September and auditors in Jamaica have a large backlog of audit works, NDB
will be required (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02(b)) to submit the
external auditors' report by not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year. The reports will follow Bank guidelines for external
audits of DFC-type institutions.
80.       NDB will also submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on its
financial position, subloan operations, and institutional changes. These
reports should be received by the Bank within 45 days of the end of each
semi-annual period.
Project Risks
81.       The project does not involve any unusual risks, but because of
Jamaica's dependence on external trade and uncertain world economic
conditions, as well as the untested institutional arrangements, substantial
delays in subloan processing and disbursements may occur. To minimize
technical delays, Bank staff will supervise the project very closely during
NDB's start-up period and provide advice and assistance, as may be
necessary. While commercial banks have indicated their agreement that the
financial incentives under the project are sufficient to undertake project
appraisal work, there is still a risk--because of the banks' insufficient
experience with project appraisal--that they may find it burdensome or
unprofitable. In that event, NDB may have to assume a greater
responsibility for subproject appraisals and/or the interest spread to
commercial banks may have to be increased. It may also be necessary for
NDB to expand its activities to cofinancing, issuing of guarantees and
direct financing of subprojects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between NDB and the Bank, and the Report on the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special
conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex 111.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 28, 1983



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                  Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              11.0                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        4.8              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  480.0        840.0    1040.0                1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      424.2       1224.9    1326.1                1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1629.0        1877.0    2172.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.8          37.2      41.3                  65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.3
STATIONARY POPLULAT1ON (MILLIONS)                          5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2065
9                     POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       148.2       170.8      195.5                  35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    332.4        387.0      452.4                  92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.7         47.0      40.8                  39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                          54.0        47.5       53.2                  56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.3          5.6       5.9                   4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.5/c        1.4/c     1.5/c                 2.4                       1.6
URBAN                               2.5          2.4       2.5                   3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      39.4         35.3      28.7                  31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.5          7.6       6.4                   8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6          2.6       1.9                   2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        19.3      27.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           98.0         99.0      93.0                 110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    94.0       111.3      118.1/e               108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.1         67.4      69.0/e                66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.2         32.8      34.4/;.               34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       3.1          1.2       0.3                   5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    64.2          68.6      70.9                  64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            51.5         32.2      16.2                  64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              20.9/f       62.0      86.0/d                65.6
URBAN                              64.6/;      100.0     100.0/;                78.9
RURAL                               5.7/f       48.0      79.O/d                43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         94.0      94.0/d                59.3
URBAN                                ..        100.0     100.0/;                75.3
RURAL                                ..         92.0      91.O/d                30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2589.8      2643.7    3523.0/h               1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       419.1/jg   1725.2      547.0/-;             1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             241.2        244.7     263.0/h               477.4                     286.8
URBAN                                ..        220.8        ..                 679.8                     192.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..               1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         17.0      19.0/h                27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9          4.3
URBAN                               2.7           ..
RURAL                               4.8           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.9          1.6
URBAN                               1.6           ..         ..
RURAL                               2.0           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                      Page 2 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  92.0        119.0      99.0                  104.3                     102.4
MALE                  92.0        119.0       99.0                 106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                93.0        119.0      100.0                 103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  45.0         46.0      58.0                   41.3                       60.2
MALE                  44.0         46.0       55.0                  40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                46.0         45.0       61.0                  41.8                       54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   9.0            5.5        2.3/i                33.7                       31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             15.7         46.7      49.5/e                 29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           21.2         26.4      22.2/i                 16.7                       22.2
ADLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         82.0         95.4       90.0                  79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          20.3         39.0         ..                  42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          90.2        266.4     334.1                  270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        37.3       77.7                   107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   62.0        114.0      59.6                   63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.2/h                   2.7                        4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        606.9        634.2     778.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    37.2        38.8       39.8                   24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               39.0         29.5      21.4                   31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  24.9         25.6      25.2                   23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 37.3         33.8       35.8                  33.6                       44.5
MALE                                  48.7         42.4       44.0                  50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                                26.7         25.6      27.9                   16.8                       32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.6        1.3                   1.3                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.2/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.27i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.27..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.27..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     501.0/e
RURAL                                 ..           ..     439.0/e                184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     585.0/e                518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     509.0/;                371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..      80.O/e
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1975;  /e 1977;
If Percentage of housing units with piped water; /g 1963; /h 1974; /i 1976; /k 1958
May, 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL ISDICATORS                                                     Page   3   of   6
Notes:  Although the data are deaan feoe  seorccs generelly jilgod the ease asibarltassee and reliable. it should alsa bh  stied that they my sot be ioter-
satiotally comparable because of rho lack of standardized deflinition  and concepts used by differoet too.teles in celleeting the data.  The data ore,  ne-
rhelos,.  osefal todasesrbe ardors of sagoitodo. indicate  -rdos, and charac erize certait major differnoces b-             -o-i
Thbaefereece graops are (I) the ao mcounsty greup of  ith  subject country and (2) a custry group with sonoohat higher  verage incmo=  that the constry group
of rho s        -biwet country (ercept for    "Uigh Incoso    Oil Epeorts" group obere "Middlo Income N-rth Africa sod Diddle  last" is rhises becauNa of soteng-r
s        ci-oslcoral affities).  In tie referents gronp data tho avorages are poyulatil  weigbted aritric tresti o h ia di-b-dcatnr sod sha=n only whew
majority of cho countries in a group has data for that indicator.  Since cth  coverage nf coantrbes among the indicatars doponds no the availability of data
and it nor -ntfoew, _aatinn oust he exerciard in rolating averages of now indicatnr to atathee.  These anerages are only oseful it copariog tho vabae of
one indicator ata tite aung the country and refoesece grasps.
AREA (thbon.and sobs.)                                                                       Polta   e   aptlDd-ttl   ra.edrrb-Pplts   ttl
Totail - Total  turiace area copris'ng land  area and inlatd waters  1979 data.              uthap, and eunol) divided by their  rspatvo inosd rahei -   bepita  (tods
Agri-oltural - Est,-ate of agricultnrai area aseo  tenac ;arily  or per=anontly              aveilahle 1w pahlio and poivate general sod spotbalbed hospital sod re-
foe crops, pasrures.=rket, mact u itchon gardens at to fir fablov; b979 data.              hshilbtatio centers. ho spitals  rew establishme-ts perwatently eta ffe d
GNP PER CAPITA (by)) - liP per capita osmates at cureent sarkor prices, cat- dial  rare  aret  at includod.  Esea hosdpItaIwoovee, incinde heath
ctlated by samor.noe.sino  =ethod as oreld Daub Atlas (1978-dO basit); 1960,                 sod medical cettees nta  perateotystaf fe  by...  af ptr.iiat (hut by a
lOPi, sod lOAf data.                                                 oe~~d_ iaaissbtant   ltoro  miwf,ec.   hc   ffei-eteteo
detion and provide a limited range of  tedbcal facilities.  Poe btetis-
ENERG'E CONSUiTTION PED  CAPITA - daoual conau=ption of rrasorraihl esorgy (crab               tical purposos urhan hompitals boclude vlEs priecpal/generab hapital,
sad bigniee. petraleno, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geother=al eloc-                 sod rueal hospitals, focal or eural hnspitals sad tedical otd matootley
tricity) in kiltgra=s of coal oqatnalont per capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                    cetters.  Specialzed hampitals are included only noder owtal.
data.                                                                                      Admissions pee Noaspital Bed - TptnI unubr of admissiant to ap diabharges
feat howpitals divided by the unu=er of beds.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Populatfnc, Mid-TYea  (thousands) - An of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod 1980             NOUSING
darn.         ,                                                 oplt -                    Average Oboe of fansohold 'Pee.... Per Sw-sebld)  total. arhen  end meal1-
Grbaa Froplation (percent of total) - Eatlio of nrhan to cotal ppoplatbion;i               Avheragebd  wof siseowf a groetp oPf indbvbdsabs who shat e Slebog quarterst
f                             different doffinitions of orbanosetas may affeot conparability of data                     sod theft male rzaft.  A boaeder or lodger may or may eot he iseluded in
matongrcouatrieo; 1960, 1970, sod 1950 data.                                               the hous.obld  ro. itatittirab puepsoss.
PwpubtioPrjct its0                                                                        Avehg hste w.ihl   pesos w t   ewoti t- t_otal,    an   o  e   tr o -avera d row
Poonlation i n ear 2OO0 - Current population proj ectinon  are based on l9go              herafe persons  perserin ser    aehenb  and onesl ottupied canveotional
total population by ago and ten and their mortality and fertility rates.                dwellings, rospertively.  Dwellings ewolsdw ten-permanent stenetureesoad
Pe Pjecrcnn yara=etere  for =ortal-ty  sraes co=prise of three levelsabsum-              antccpied perts.
ing fife expectancy at birth increasingovith country's pee tapirs incomo.             ...................................... Access to Electricity (poercent of dvelliogs) - total, urbat, end erorl -
level, and fatal0 lifw expectancy stabilizing at 77.5 yeses.  The pars-                 Gooventional dwellings vith olettricbry is living quarters as pecrtentge
peters foe forrility rate  nals  bane throe levelt assu=smg dsclive in                   of tuotl, orbat, sod rural dwelligngreospoctively.
fertility according to intone level sad post family plaoning petfor=ance.
lachbcountrylistheaoassigned oneohsenft noinoceho=tbintonso umortality              EDUCATION
sod fertility trands far projection purpotes.                                         Adjusted inrollpert fEntios
tathionary pr late equa-ia totn LetY popular.  i n thete in no gErth since               Primar o e  t  - al   mal so  fai         - Geras twtal, male and feale
mIons corstant.  This is sievod only afrer 6                                                                                    itiiity  araes decline to  primary school-ago population; normlly includes ot ildren aged 6-1
tha replacoe=er level of anit net reopeoductiov trae, oboen each generation                yoeas but adjusted foe different lengths of peri=y educatio;i foe
of so=en replaces icself wxact ly.  The stationary population site vso                     counotries with utniersal education eneolmeut nay excaed SOT percent
osti=ted on the basis of the projoctod obarocttritritu  of the popslatios                  since none pupils see below or shove the afficial schrol eag.
io the year DODD. sod rho rate of deolioe of fartility ratetorepace-                    Seyconudr  school  - total,  ale aod femle - lomputed as above; secndaey
ront lovel.                                                                                educationorequiresost least f one yeses of epproved ptb=ep instrnction;
Yeaottstatienar  popuLation is coached - The 'rear whec uvacionary populatfot                provides generel, vocarionea, we roertee tpsondfng costutses   o  foe pptla
Puopletion Donsity                                                                             extludad.
Per so. km. - Did-year popalatioc pee  square kilometer (l00 hectares)f of               Vocationol euroll=et (percenc  of socnndnos) - Vuorional instituttons
totai aree; 1960, 1970 sod 1979 does.                                                    include teoconial, iondutrial. or other programs which nopeate bndepeod-
Per an. ku.  tgrfcjlturaf loud - Co=puted as shore for agricsltralf laud                   ently or as departeento of secondary institutioss.
onyi.; 1960, t970 and 1979 data.                                                       Pupil-teacher reto - prbimry, and secoodary-Torel srsdentsenrolled in
Poguatoignv Age Streucrure (percect) - Childreen (0-bA years), vorking-age (1S-              petmary sod snocondary levels divided by su=bers of bearhers in the
64 yesar), and retired (65 yearsand cverj as yercentagesoofu=id-yeaer pop-                 correspooding levolt.
lationt  1960, 1970, sod 1900 data.                                                      Adnlt itoeratr rate (percent) - Literate adnlts (able en read sod write)
Pnoplation Growth Yare (percent) - total - Annusal govthe eaton of total aid-                aseapercenaege of total adult population aged 11 years and over.
year populacione foe 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-go.
Populatiot Growth note (percent) - urban - Anoosl growth rates of urbsn popu-            CONgUlfPTION
laionsie   for 1950-hI, 1960-70. and 1970-80.                                            PassesgeeTrn (pee thousand population) - Paste=ger cart eoprise eptor
Credo Birth Rave (pot thousand) - SAna1s line bieths per thoosso.d of =td-year               ones seatiog loss thou eight persono: excludes ambulanros, heerses and
ponaletion; 1960. 1970. and 1900 dora.                                                     military vetitles.
Crade Deseh note free thoussnd) - Annual deaths per ehossand  of mid-year                  Radio oReseivers (per thoussnd population) - All types ot rereivers for radio
population; 1900, 1970, sod 19110 dnta.                                                    broadcasts to general public pee thtusand of population: exclode fn-
frost neproduction iateo-Aveergo cooler of deaughtoerst onen till hoar in                   1lfretted receivers toncountriem and ic years wisen owgisteraion of radio
hertnot=al reproductine periodif sherexperiences presonensge-specific fer-                 setosvas inteffect; date feorneentryearso=yunotbeonmparableosince
tility eater; osually five-yecr averages ending io 1960, 1970, aod 1990.                  most eonntbrae aholisbod licensing.
Yfbrtas=ri   devcepos. Anodneuasp(t,houf astic     fEn=ilY planciog program.                gonra  potlint (Pee thousand peculatotion;  tooludes nulioecseA  OTVeteivers
Ft=ily PLanning -TUxrs (percenteofearriedwvors)- Percenage ofm=arried                       inscosuntrioesad io yoearsvepregistratironof TVsetsewas inodeffet.
earn of child-bearing  age (15-A4 yearn) vol  one hirth-co-trol  decelsa to              tewspaper Circulation (p"e ebausend  populatio) - Oboes rho overage rip-
all morrel~d voma tin sesma agogronp.                                                      nfotien of "deaic geteral interest totpaphP, defined as a perindical
publicetioc deotrd primrily to recording general 0000.  It is 6onsidered
FOOD ANTDT TRltTION                                                                            to he  "daily" if it appears at  least four clams a woof.
Tndex of Food cruductioc pee Capita (1969-71=100) - Index  of per capita atonal           Cinea Annua1 Atcondance per Capita per Test - Dosed no the tet   oE
production uP eli food co=aoditien.  Production etcledes seed end food sod                 elckers sold daring the pear. including edmimmionso me drive-it cinre=s
is no calendar year batOn.  Co= ndities cover primacy goods fo.g. nugarrane                end =bLo e units.
inbreed of s2gar) which see  edible  and contaif nutrients (e.g. coffee and
toe art excluded).  Aggregate production of each cuntrey is hated cv                  LABOE FORtE
natironl average producer pricoeveights; 1961-65, 1070, sod i1980 data.                 Total Labor Fotce (thoubands) - EcuonmNirelly active porsoos, incloding
Per cayita supply of calories (percenr nf requirements) - Computed fern=                     anred forcem  end unemployed hat excluding hoasewives, stsdents, ete.,
energy equivalent of see fond oupplies  vailable incountry per capita                      coteriog population of elf ages.  Definitinsp is variatu countries are
per day.  Availsble supplien cunprise domestic productbon, imports inns                    woo comparable; 1960, 1970 sod 1980 data.
exports, snd  ohanges in stooL.  Nev supplies exclude atftal feed,  fo_ds.                Perle (percent) - Female labor Porcenas percentage no  btel lebot force.
Guest ities used it food processing, and losses in distribution.  Gequire-                 Agrieultare fprcent) - isbot forre in farming, forestry, hetting end
maeratsveren estimated by FAO hated on physiologiral needs fee normal acti-                  fishing aso percentageoof toeal labor force; 1960, 1970 and l98O date.
city  and health consideringenvironmental temperature, bdy weights. age                    Industry  (percent) - iLbor force in mining. eonstructinn, mnof cesriog
end son distributit o  of population, and alloving 10 percent  for cotta at                  sod eleonrictfy, water  and gas an peecentagef total labor forco;
household level  1961-65, 1970 sod 1977 data.                                                1960, 1970 sod 19110 data.
Per capita sorely of erotin (genus per day) - Perotin coctenr of per cayira               Partieipatinn Rete (percent) - novel, male, and female-Partitipation or
N                            mat supply of food per day.  tee oupply of food is defined an above.  Ow-                  oniviry eaten are eompored as total, male, sod fenale labor force ss
quirpnts fcr all c       1untries establinhed by 1SDb provide foe minimum                  percentages of toral, male sod female population of all apget respeorively
ailloces of 60 gr  of total protein per day and 00 gr  of animal ad                        1960, 1970, and 19110 data.   These see hosed on IL0's paertiipatiaeertes
pulse prorei.  of hidch 10 grass uhosld he enimal protein.  Those stood-                   reflecting ago-se  tientutare of rho popuLotion, and long tie teend.  A
ard seae inner than  those of 75 leans of tubal protein sod 23 gera  of                    few estimates arm fret a naonsl mources.
soimal pcarelo an an average for thevorold, propobed by PA0 in the Third                 Enteonoic Dependency Satin - Ratio of population pneder 10 and 65 sod aver
1ored Pond Gurvey; 1961-65, 1970 sod 1977 dara.                                           to the toiel labor force.
Poe capita peotein tupply from anital and poe - Protein ouppiy of feud do-
rieed bra      0 animals sod puies is graes per day-  1961-65, 1970 sod 1977 dots.     NCONSUM DlTRIBO TLON
Child (egos 1-A) Death Rate (per rouoand) - bAsal deaths per thousand be                   Percentage of Private thowe (both in cash and bOnd) - Rereived by rithest
age groap 1-h yearn,sen tohldren in  bibs ego group, for mast developing noun-             0 porcest, richest 20 petoent, penoses 2G petceot, sod pororet 4D peereot
tries dare derired frno life tablest 196D, 1970 sod 1900 data                             of households.
NbALTNi                                                                                    POVERTY TARGET 01111bS
life  D-hectancy at Bir  (peace) - Average number of peors of life reaining                The followi:g esrietets are very approximte  easures ot pov=rey levels.
at birth; 196D, 197D sod 1900 data.                                                        sod should be interpreted with consbderable -  autioA .
fnfane Mfortality Rate (per thousand) - bmunnl deaths of imfantesouder one year            itti=ated Absolnte Poverty Tncoet Level (110$ per c=pits) - urbas ean  tueal -
oE uge per thousand  live births: 1960, 1070 and 10911 dar.                                Absolste poverty tonnne level is  that incofe level below whie  a mitPimi
RArest to Safe beter (percent of populatiYo) - total, urban, sod total - Nue-                ntrttiooflly adequate diet pins eawoatfal vet-fEnd requieee=ts iN mat
ber no people (total, ueban, end raral) vith .easonable mresstoen safe                     afn-dable.
water supply (includes crested serfEo wdiaters or entreated bat 0   c7 stamistatd        estimated  Relative Poverty lscat level (115 per capies) - urban a=d rtowl -
waitet each aso that from proateed boroehlem, apriogs, and sanitary vells) as              Rurel relative poverty tenore level is one-third of ayerege per mapies
perc=netges of theibe respective populations.  Ta an urhan aresaapublic                    persanal tncoef of the csoutey.  DbanI level is derived gEnt the raral
fountain or standpost located nte mepet thso 200 ereters Eron me boast map he             level with adjostmant 11or higher rest af livitg On sehan areas.
censidered as befog =loth   reasoDable actes5 of  that  basso.  Tn       specs          ERtimated PopVlaties Below AbsTole Povert e         feLel (be-cedt) - t rban
ressonable accesn woold tmplp that the hon eii  o or m tbees  f the heusebold             san  rsal - Pepenst of popolatbon (urban and esral) who see "abd slute
do nor hsve to speed s diopeoportiopate part of  the  day  in fetbibog the                 ptoo".
Efemip ys wateer neds.
Acembe to  ptceople (tamo al, seha tsoodp ormt) served by extrema dispassi as
peecsenages of their respecttve papelesimagt feereos disposal may inelode
the 'saltiso ias sad dtsposwl, wish so vitnnut treatremt. of bras worste
sod waste-water hp water-harms t;syseos or the use of pie privies and wimqi-
lee installmiions.
Ptpulstino pde Pyosiciat     - Populatioe  divided hp  somber of preetisidg phpsi-                                             Seemasie so_d Baetsl Nets Bb-li ds
oPre qtaibfied Prro a medical sehetl at nnEvereitt  level.                                                              EonorCic AnalPysi sod Projectioms ..epartfet
Poralatise per Nprsisag Fnersse - Ppoditiowl divided by  goodee of peagtib_g.                                                              flay i9N2
ele sdod female graduate ousesm. alseissase  iarles. praceieai ntor-s sod
oPrmieg aetiliaries.



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                        Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Population:        2.2 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,040 (1981)
Amount                                           Actual                                      Preliminarv
(million US$ at       1975        1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981         1982
current prices)       ---------------------------
1981
PRICES
CDP Deflator (1974=100)                                 121.2      134.0       150.4      189.4      219.6      256.0      274.7       295.7
Exchange Rate (J$ per US$)                                0.91       0.91        1.25       1.48       1.77        1.78       1.78       1.78
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                Average Annual Increase (X)
(at constant 1974 prices)                      (at constant 1974 prices)
1976       1981       1986                            1976/81    1981/86
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product                2925.3                       100.0      100.0       100.0                             -1.7         4.0
Agriculture                        235.7                          8.2        8.7        8.8                              -1.0        5.0
Industry                          1068.L                         34.3       29.1       32.0                              -4.2        5.8
Services                          1621.5                         57.5       62.2       59.2                              -0.2         3.0
Consumption                           2647.8                        96.0       90.0        75.6                             -3.5         1.4
Gross Domestic Investment              557.8                        18.8        20.9       20.0                             -6.7         3.5
Exports GNFS b/                       1447.2                        25.4       52.1        63.9                               8.9        6.8
Imports GNFS 6/                     -1727.5                         40.5      -63.0       -59.5                               1.8        3.5
Gross National Savings                 229.2                         5.9         5.3       13.6                            -16.8        34.6
___ ______ As 1 of GDP                                      Preliminary
19 7-7/T78            1979/8o           - -1981782-                1982/83
PUBLIC FINANCE c/
Current Revenue                                                     20.5                   25.7                  29.4                   29.0
Current Expenditure                                                 26.2                   29.7                  31.4                   32.9
Surplus (+).or Deficit (-)                                          -5.7                   -4.0                  -2.0                   -3.9
Capital Expenditure                                                 10.5                    8.1                  12.2                   11.6
Foreign Finance (net)                                                  .6                   3.2                   9.6                   10.0
a/  At market prices.
b/ Based on balance of payments data.
c/  Fiscal year - April/March 31.  Figures refer to Central Government operations.
d/ Estimated.
April 1983



- 27 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
1976-81         1981-86
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (%)                 -2.4              3.2
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (%)   -3.5                 1.8
lCOR                                -6.7              5.3
Marginal Savings Rate               38.4             60.4
Import Elasticity                    1.4             09
Annual Growth Rate (%)
(at constant 1978 prices)
Amount           ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Indicator                  (million US$ at                        Actual                     Estimated              Projected
current prices)       --------------------------------------  ---------  ----------------------------
1981            1977    1978    1979    1980    1981            1982      1983   1984   1985   1986
( EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)       985.2              6.2      1.0      0.5      0.0     3.0       -16.8      24.1   -1.5   21.0    9.4
Bauxite/Alumina                  758.6             14.1      2.9     0.0      6.7    -1.5        -23.2      26.1   -7.7   23.4    8.9
Sugar/Bananas                     50.5            -5.8    -6.9    -4.8   -34.5   -16.3            -1.7      34.0   16.7   25.3    7.9
Other                            176.1           -16.7    -2.6       4.1    -2.8       8.0        10.1      14.3   12.0   12.6   11.6
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)   1485.0               -24.8      2.6    -3.6    -7.7    22.8         -10.0        5.6    1.8    8.9    7.2
Food                             105.0           -44.1    20.8   -22.9        0.0    50.0          2.0      -2.0    3.0    2.5    2.5
Petroleum                        499.2              1.9   -14.9    18.6   -16.9    -1.8           -4.7      10.7   -7.0    3.4    5.8
Machinery and Equipment          216.1           -47,6      12.2    11.7   -iO.3    48.2         -21.4       6.2    4.8    4.5    4.6
Other                            664.7           -23.2       6.6   -13.6    -2.8    22.7         -11.2       3.4    6.6    8.5   10.0
PRICES
Export Price Index (1978=100)        -             92.0   100.0   102.5   121.4   119.4          116.1    118.1  127.4  137.8  147.8
Import Price Index (1978=100)        -            88.6   100.0   120.3   152.4   157.2           158.0    154.2  163.2  172.8  183.7
Terms of Trade Index (1978=100)   -               103.8   100.0    85.2    79.7    76.3           73.5      76.6   78.1   79.8   80.5
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                Average Annual Increases (%)
(at current prices)                         (at constant 1978 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1981  01986          1971-76           1976-81        1981-86
Exports                                             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            -3.0             -0.8             7.8
Bauxite/Alumina                                    49.3    63.9    62.4    77.0    61.7           -2.5               2.3            5.7
Sugar/Bananas                                      31.8     14.5    22.4      5.1      8.7 -4.3/-12.7       -12.2/-29.4       10.1/47.5
Other                                              18.9    21.6      15.2    17.9    29.6         -3.6              -1.8            11.3
Imports                                             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           -6.1              -2.4             3.2
Food                                               16.6    13.5    11.6       7.1      7.7        -7.2              -4.8             1.4
Petroleum                                           8.3      6.3    19.1    33.6    27.6         -11.9              -3.5             2.7
Machinery and Equipment                            18.7    29.5    22.0    14.6    15.9           -7.9              -0.7             1.9
Other                                              56.4    50.7    47.3    44.7    48.8           -1.7              -2.0             4.4
April 1983



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 61nf 
JAMAICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions of US$ at current prices)
Actual                                                   Projecteda/
1976     1977     1978     1979     1980     1981             1982     1983     1984     1985     1986
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNFS                       903.6   982.5  1119.5   1207.7  1408.1  1413.3                  1308     1566     1695    2060      2373
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        630.0   724.0   792.1   814.7   962.7   974.0                    737      915      952     1223     1430
Imports of GNES                      1131.2   920.0  1055.8   1227.7  1413.6  1673.7                  1639     1736     1855    2124      2416
Of which: Merchandise c.i.f.        912.8   746.9   856.6   994.0  1159.5  1457.4                   1370     1407     1520     1755    2006
Net Factor Services                  -112.3  -128.6  -178.6  -202.6  -251.7  -201.5                   -235     -310     -323    -365    -403
Net Transfers                            5.9    20.0    25.7       80.0    90.8   124.3                135      139      140      145       147
Current Account Balance                 -334.0   -46.1   -89.2  -142.6  -166.2  -337.6                  -431     -315     -344    -284       -299
Private Direct Inlvestment                -0.5    -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0    -2.8                     -        -         -        -        -
MLT Loans (net)                          102.2    63.9      57.4      12.1   207.4    103.8              392      386      235       214      194
Other Capital b/                          18.4   -70.7   -80.0        14.9   -91.1    155.8             -107        54      149      150      165
Change in Reserves                       213.9     59.9   138.5    142.0    60.9        80.8             146    -125       -40      -80       -60
(increase = -)
lnternational Reserves (net)           -116.3  -176.2  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3                   -619    -494    -454    -374    -314
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                    179.5    83.0    112.9    171.7   295.8   473.3                 501      759      614      580      589
Project Loans                        31.2    26.6       42.6     32.0    47.8      38.1              34        41       49       60       70
Special Financing                     -        10.4   198.8    125.5   139.5   139.4                298       406      334      280      240
Other Official                       73.0    71.0   -71.0        20.3   135.1    87.3                128      249      169      172      205
Government Guaranteed                47.0      38.5     23.3     11.5     50.6     38.4               41       63       64       68       74
Private Direct (net)                 -0.5     -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0    -2.8                     -        -        -        -        -
Lines of Credit (net)                 -        11.3     33.6     11.5    -9.2       5.0                -        -        -        -        -
Other d/                             28.8   -67.8   -87.7        -2.7   -57.0    167.9             -107        26      149      150      165
Official Debt Outstanding             831.8   905.0   1022.7   1080.8  1298.8  1497.8                 1797     2201     2700    2986      3230
Debt Service: Total Service
Paymentsc/          102.8   159.1    144.6    165.5    177.6   239.4                314       378      440      497      543
Interestc/            54.2      66.0     62.2     97.9    126.4   138.1               217      253      293      313      351
Payments as % of
Exports              11.2      16.0     12.8     13.6     12.5     16.4               24       24.1     20.0     24.1     22.9
Average Interest Rate on New
Loans (%)                             -         -        -        -        -        -                  8.0      7.4      7.5      7.4      7.9
Average Maturity of New Loans
(year)                                -        -         -        -        -         -                11.5     11.3     11.6     11.5     11.6
a/  Projections on a fiscal year basis April 1 - March 31.                                              April 1983
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
c/  Includes payments of interest to IMF but not principal.                                                                                                     3
d/ Includes private debt and unidentified capital flows.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1983
----US$ million-----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                                (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower            Purpose                    Bank  Undisbursed
15 loans fully disbursed 1/                                  220.3
1146   1975      The Water          Sewerage/Water             15.0       0.0
Commission
1284   1976      Jamaica            Population                  6.8       1.3
1464   1977      Jamaica            Rural Development          15.0      3.5
1516   1978      Jamaica Public   Power                        20.0       1.1
Service Co. Ltd.
1517   1978      Sugar Industry   Agriculture                  18.0      3.9
Authority
1609   1979      Jamaica            Small Scale Industry        7.0       .3
1715   1979      Jamaica            Second Program Loan        31.5        .2
1716   1979      Jamaica            Forestry                   12.0      3.7
1740   1979      Jamaica            Highways                   16.0      3.8
1978   1981      Jamaica            Export Development         37.0      9.8
Fund
2017   1981      Petroleum Co.    Offshore Petroleum            7.5       5.1
Exploration
2070   1982      Jamaica            Third Education             6.8       6.5
2106   1982      Jamaica            Technical Assistance        6.1      5.3
2107   1982      Jamaica            Kingston Export Free         13.5   13.0
Zone
2188   1982      Jamaica            Power                        30.5   30.0
Total (net cancellations)                          463.0
Of which has been repaid                            50.1
Total now outstanding                              412.9
Amount sold                           1.6
Of which has been repaid              1.6            0.0
Total now held by Bank                             412.9
Total undisbursed                                            87.5
1/   Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1983
US$ million
Date      Borrower             Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1961  Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete           0.2      -        0.2
1969  Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                  2.2      0.7       2.9
1980  West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers         2.3       -        2.3
1982  Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing                5.0       -        5.0
9707     10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments            2.3       -        2.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                7.4      0.7       8.1
Total Undisbursed                                 1.6      -        1.6
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1464-JM: Rural Development Project: US$15 million Loan of June 29,
1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation had initially been slow due to shortage of
funds, manpower problems and a difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. About half of
the target group of settlers have been placed and two-thirds of the farm
homes have been completed or are under construction. Road construction and
supply of water and electricity to the nine settlement areas is advancing
rapidly. Only two of the six completed markets are operating; the Ministry
of Agriculture is attempting to resolve the institutional and construction
problems which have delayed the opening of the others.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Ln. No. 1516-JM: Second Power Project: US$20 million Loan of March 6,
1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after consi-
derable delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and most
of the loan proceeds have been committed. Project completion is now
estimated for September 1983, about 18 months later than the appraisal
forecast. JPSC's operations have been seriously affected by the limited
availability of its most fuel efficient generating units due to poor
maintenance and operating procedures and a lack of spare parts, and the
loss of skilled and managerial staff.  Its financial position has also
deteriorated. The company has completed rehabilitation of two of its
generating units, and will continue its rehabilitation program under the
Third Power Project (Ln. No. 2188-JM). Recent tarrif actions should result
in an improved financial position in the future.
Ln. No. 1517-JM: Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million Loan of March
6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing date:
March 31, 1984.
Although some progress in the rehabilitation of factories has
been made, implementation slowed seriously during the past two-and-a-half
years due to the critical financial situation of the Borrower. As part of
its structural adjustment program, the Government dissolved the sugarcane
cooperatives in 1981 and is attempting to divest the sugar mills owned by
NSC. It is also undertaking a program aimed at strengthening NSC's
management, cutting costs, and speeding implementation of the field and
factory rehabilitation programs. These actions should result in an
improved financial position in 1983.
Ln. No. 1609-JM: Small Scale Enterprise Development Project: US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date: December 27,
1978; Closing date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Remaining uncommitted funds from the very small scale enterprises
subprogram were reallocated to PIC early in the year and have been fully
committed. Portions of the portfolio under the latter subprogram are in
arrears; strenuous efforts to reduce the arrears level are under way.



-32 -                        ANNEX IT
Page 4 of o
Ln. No. 1716-JM: Forestry Project: US$12 million Loan of June 8, 1979;
Effective date: December 11, 1979; Closing date: June
30, 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule, due to delays in the
allocation of land for the project and labor problems, but is now
proceeding satisfactorily.  A new nursery with a capacity of one million
plants per year is being established; the pine inventory has been completed
and the hardwood inventory is underway. The new saw mill was installed and
began running-in operations in 1982.  The financial position of the
Borrower has been deteriorating; Bank-financed consultants are reviewing
the project in-depth.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway Project: US$16 million Loan of July 10,
1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, and shortages
of key staff and of budget resources. In view of the Government's diffi-
cult budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project
was restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential main-
tenance work by reducing targets for more expensive types of periodic
maintenance. Since restructuring, execution of the project has proceeded
reasonably well.
Ln. No. 1978-JM: Second Export Development Project: US$37 million Loan of
May 15, 1981; Effective date:  August 6, 1981; Closing
date: December 31, 1983.
The loan provides financing via the Export Development Fund (EDF)
for imports of raw materials and spare parts for nontraditional exporters,
medium-term financing for exporters and their suppliers for capital equip-
ment and working capital, imported inputs for the banana industry, and
technical assistance. New procedural rules were introduced in early 1983,
and these--combined with a change in export incentives--have sharply
increased the demand for EDF resources.



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Ln. No. 2017-JM: Offshore Petroleum Exploration Project: US$7.5 million
Loan of June 16, 1981; Effective date: February 4, 1982;
Closing date:  June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at promoting exploration of Jamaica's
hydrocarbon potential by strengthening the Petroleum Company of Jamaica
both as a partner of private international companies and as an independent
investor. The first well yielded no shows of hydrocarbons; further
drilling in the Pedro Bank area under the project will depend on contract
holders whose contract extension will expire in November 1983.
Reinterpretation of marine seismic data is expected to be completed in June
1983; seismic surveys of other offshore areas are under execution. Plans
to construct a pilot plant for waste oil recovery are underway; as a
consequence, the feasibility study on waste oil recovery has been dropped
from the project.
Ln. No. 2070-JM: Third Education Project: US$6.8 million Loan of January
14, 1982; Effective date: March 24, 1982; Closing date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at strengthening the technical and voca-
tional education system by expansion of the training capacity in the
College of Arts, Science and Technology, the Vocational Training Develop-
ment Institute, and the Industrial Production Centers. It also provides
for the development of new teaching programs and the provision of learning
materials. The project is approximately one month behind the appraisal
schedule. All components have been initiated and are making reasonable
progress.
Ln. No. 2106-JM: Technical Assistance Project: US$6.1 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Effective date: April 30, 1982; Closing
date: September 30, 1985.
Initial delays in recruitment resulted from the Governmentts
decision to change the coordinating agency of the loan from the Project
Analysis and Monitoring Company to the National Planning Agency (NPA). Of
the 35 positions and/or studies currently identified to be financed under
the loan, over two-thirds have been filled and are operational or
completed. Candidates have been identified for the majority of the
remaining posts. UNDP's Office of Project Execution is assisting NPA in
identifying candidates, recruiting consultants, and servicing contracts.
There has been some reallocation of loan funds and identification of new
activity to support the Government's structural adjustment program.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No, 2107-JM: Kingston Free Zone Project: US$13.5 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Effective date: August 16, 1982; Closing
date:  December 31, 1987,
The project is directed at increasing foreign private investment
and developing manufactured exports through the construction of shell
factory buildings and supporting infrastructure in the Kingston Free Zone
area. Physical execution of the project will be about one year behind
schedule, in part due to a fall-off in demand for factory space from
foreign investors affected by the world recession, Good progress is being
made in obtaining technical assistance funds for training and promotion.
Ln, No, 2188-JM: Third Power Project: US$30.5 million Loan of July 27,
1982; Effective date: February 28, 1983; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
The loan provides for rehabilitation of steam power plants,
expansion of transmission and distribution, technical assistance to
strengthen management and maintenance, and equipment. Execution of the
project has been delayed as a result of delays in meeting the conditions of
effectiveness, but the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Loan request made to Bank:        November 1981
(b)  Appraisal mission:                November/December 1982
(c)  Completion of negotiations:       April 1983.
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:  June 1983.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Unless agreed otherwise, no large bauxite/alumina enterprises will
be financed under the loan (para 59).
(b)  NDB would exchange views with the Bank prior to engaging in other
than second tier lending operations (para 60).
(c) The substance of NDB's policy and strategy statement and operating
criteria would not be changed without prior Bank concurrence
(para 65).
(d) The Government will provide NDB sufficient local resources to
adequately capitalize its future operations and prevent NDB from
incurring any exchange losses resulting from its borrowing
operations (para 69).
(e) NDB and the Bank to review NDB's lending rates annually (para 71).
(f) NDB will submit audit reports to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (para 79).
(g) The Government's subsidiary loan agreement with NDB will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para 65).
(h) Quotations from at least three suppliers would be required whenever
feasible for procuring goods and services (para 76).






~x~, v~5  Ww                                                                                 H-, 444144~4
_7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G4 F4/C
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g4'444 1
HANOVER  ST JAMES                                                                               Atc,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- s  -L-AHA
TRELAWNY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4444 ~S                        4/
ST ANN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4r4544V/4044
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.4441
in,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%44'.                                                        41444
ST ELIZABETH ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S  HOA
JAMAI CA 
% N.>~
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 4
4444 4 4 -L   y .----P.
444 1,4414444~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



