                                              Document of

                                        TheWorld Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




                                               JAMAICA




                                     INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT

                                           (LOAN 2294-JM)




         Trade, Finance, I n d u s t r y and Energy O p e r a t i o n s
         Country Department I11
         L a t i n America The Caribbean R e g i o n a l O f f i c e
I
  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
  their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                           FISCAL YEAR

National Development Bank of Jamaica Ltd. (NDB)-NDB's financial year covered October 1 through
September 30 until 1987 when it was changed to April 1 through March 31.

                                  CURRENCY EOUIVALEm

                             Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
                 Exchange rates used for conversion of J$ values in this report are:
US$l = J$3.00 for 1983; J$5.50 for 1985-87 and FY88-89; J$6.50 for FY90; and J$8.50 for FY91.


                               GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS

      AFIs    -       Approved Financial Intermediaries
      BNS     -       Bank of Nova Scotia
      CDB     -       Caribbean Development Bank
      CIBC    -       cmc~    a m a i ~ at d .
      CNB     -       Century National Bank
      m -             Citibank
      DFC     -       Development Finance Company
      DFI     -       Development Financial Institution
      DMB -           Dyoll Merchant Bank
      EIB     -       European Investment Bank
      ERR     -       Economic Rate of Return
      EMB     -       Eagle Merchant Bank
      IDB     -       Inter-American Development Bank
      IRR     -       Internal Rate of Return
      IFMB    -       Investment & Finance Merchant Bank
      JCB     -       Jamaica Citizens Bank
      JDB     -       Jamaica Development Bank
      MSB     -       Mutual Security Bank
      NCB     -       National Commercial Bank
      NDB     -       National Development Bank
      PCR     -       Project CompletionReport
      PIC     -       Premier Investment Corp.
      SIFCO           Small IndustriesFinance Co.
      WSL     -       Workers Savings& Loan Bank

                                                                                              FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY
                                                      THE WORLD BANK
                                                   Washington, D.C. 20433
                                                            U.S.A.


Office of Director-General
 Operations Evaluation




                                                                                                               June 30, 1993



        MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT


                            S U B J E m Project Completion Report on Jamaica -
                                               Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2294-JM)


          Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Industrial Credit Project (Loan
2294-JM) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. The Government's
contribution (Part 11) closely mirrors the conclusions of Parts I and 111. The report provides
excellent coverage of the project's success but it is weak on how and why the project succeeded in
a poor, unstable macroeconomic environment.

          The Project Completion Report (PCR) suggests that the project has a significant
institutional impact and was successful and sustainable. The objectives were to:                                  (a) assist in
developing NDB as a strong conduit for credit for financing private investment projects; (b) provide
term financing to NDB for onlending through approved financial intermediaries to private
investment projects; and (c) induce commercial banks and other financial intermediaries to
undertake appraisal, financing and supervision of sound investment projects.

          The project may be audited. The focus of the audit would be on issues not well covered
in the PCR relating to the targeting of credit in an unstable and uncertain macroeconomic
environment.




Attachment




I                                                                                                                                I
   This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof their official duties. Its
   contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                JAMAICA

                                   INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                             LOAN 2294-JM

                                  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




Preface     ..............................................................                            i
Evaluation Summary        ......................................................                    iii

Part I. PROJECT REVEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECI'IVE

1. Project Identity         ....................................................                      1
2.   Background        .......................................................                        1
3.   Project Objectives and Description        ......................................                 1
4. Project Design and Organization           ....................................... 2
5. Project Implementation           ..............................................                   4
6.   ProjectResults        .....................................................                     6
7. Project Sustainability        ................................................                    9
8. Bankperformance             ..................................................                    9
9 BorrowerPerformance
  .                                ...............................................                  10
10 Project Relationships
   .                             ...............................................                    11
11 Consulting Services
   .                            ................................................                    11
12 Project Documentation and Data
   .                                          ......................................                11

Part I1. P R O J E n REVlEW FROM BORROWER'S P E R S P E W                         ............      12

Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION

1 .  Related Bank Loans         ................................................                    14
2 Project Timetable           ..................................................                    15
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement              ........................... 16
4. StatusofCovenants            ................................................                    17
5. Use of Bank Resources            .............................................                   18
6 .  Project Implementation
     6.1 Characteristics of Subprojects        .....................................                19
     6.2 Performance of Subprojects           ......................................                21
     6.3 Distniution of Subprojects         .......................................                 23
     6.4 Project Costs and Fmancing           .......................................               24

7. NDB's Fmancial Performance
     7.1 Audited Balance Sheet (as of December 31).1985-1991              .................         25
      7.2 Audited Income Statements 1985-1991 ..............................
                                          .                                                         26

8 .   Projected and Actual Loan Commitments. 1983-1991             .......................          27




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties.Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Table of Contents (cont'd)


                                                                                                 Page N o.

9. Projected and Actual Income Statements. 1983-1987  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
10 Projected and Actual Balance Sheets. 1983-1987
  .                                                ..........................                       29

Attachment: Copy of letter from PIOJ  ..................................... 31

                                               JAMAICA

                                   INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                             LOAN 2294-JM

                                  PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                               PREFACE


                This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the performance of the Industrial Credit
Project in Jamaica for which Loan 2294-JM (US$15.1 million) was approved by the Board on May 26,
1983. The Loan had a credit component of US$15.0 million and a technical assistance(TA) component
of US$O.1 million.     The proceeds of the credit component were channeled through the National
Development Bank of Jamaica Limited (NDB). NDB, established in 1981, has operated as an apex (or
second-tier) institution, providinfr term finance to business enterprises engaged in manufacturing and
tourism and related services through a network of approved financial intermediaries (AFIs). The loan
was closed with the cancellation of US$326,796 on July 27, 1990, about 31 months after the original
Closing Date.

                Parts I and 111of the PCR were prepared by the Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy
Operations Division, Country Department 111, Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LA3TF). Part
I1 has been prepared by NDB. The entire draft PCR has been sent to the Borrower and NDB for their
review and comments. The Borrower approved Part I1 prepared by NDB without comments on Parts I
and II.

                The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; internal Bank memoranda; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower1NDBl AFIs; NDB's audited annual financial statementsand periodic progress reports; and data
compiled on subprojects and World Bank missions' interviews with selected subborrowers.


                                   INDUSTRIAL CREDTT PROJECT




                                       EVALUATION SUMMARY

1.         Obiectives. The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) assist NDB in establishingand
testing sound policies, procedures and organizational arrangements for financing private investment
projects; (b) provide term financing to NDB for onlending through approved financial intermediaries
(AFIs) for sound industrial projects of new and expanding private enterprises and, in the process, to
improve the financial position and efficiency of these enterprises; and (c) induce commercial banks and
other financial intermediaries to undertake appraisal, financing and supervision of sound investment
projects (para. 3.1).

2.          Imvlementation Experience. The project's scope and timing were appropriate. The project
funds covered all the productive activities in the manufacturing, industrial, agro-industrial, mining,
tourism, and related service sectors. The project's two-tier credit system was timely and necessary in
view of the planned closureof the public developmentfinancial institutions (DFIs) (para. 4.5). The final
disbursement took place 31 months after the original Closing Date of December 31, 1987, due mainly
to a clouded investment climate in the early stageof project implementation and partly to NDB's decision
not to use IBRD funds for indirect foreign exchange cost and working capital until late 1986(para. 5.1).
The Bank continued to pursue before the emergence of a private DFI that NDB should also be involved
in direct lending in order to ensure the access of potentially profitable projects of smaller or new
enterprises to development funds. The Government, however, did not allow NDB to lend directly
because of understandable concerns that this could lead NDB into the same problems suffered by the
previous DFIs. Thus, the issue of potential conflict of interest that could have arisen from NDB's duaI
roles (as the Apex institution and as a retail lender) was avoided. However, initial perception of NDB's
potential dual roles was reflected in the NDB's Statement of Policies and Operating Criteria, which
include elaborate guidelines normally applicable to a typical DFC (para. 4.5). With such guidelines and
to satisfy the requirement of international financial institutions, NDB continued to be involved in the
preparationof detailedsubprojectappraisalreports (para. 5.2 and 9.1). Againstthebackground explained
in detail in para. 5.3, NDB applied the additional 1% interest charge on loans funded out of foreign
borrowing. This provided a basis for an arrangement under which NDB would recover from the
Government the foreign exchange losses in excess of accumulated additional interest charges. This
arrangement was used with a view to protecting NDB from the exchange losses resulting from its direct
borrowing from other international financial institutions with the Government's guarantee. The Bank
found the arrangement technically deficient mainly because the arrangement did not provide adequate
compensation for the Government's assuming the exchange risk. The Bank proposed in 1985that NDB
introduce a variable interest rate system in order to ensure that onlending rates to the final beneficiaries
could generally follow market forces during the life of subloans and to enable the Government to assume
the foreign exchange risk without incurring major losses. However, the Bank could not effectively
persuade NDB to implementthe Bank supervisionmissions' specificrecommendations on onlendingrates
and simplification of procedures (paras. 5.2 and 5.3). Judging from the generally good performance of
subprojects financed, NDB carried out the Industrial Credit project reasonably well in collaboration with
AFIs (paras. 6.1-6.6 and 9.1).

3.             Results. The project has largely met its specific objectives. First, NDB's Statement of
Policies and Strategy and its Operating Criteria introduced under the project have been found, by and
large, sound and provisions therein have generally been complied with by NDB and AFIs with a minor
exception. NDB has developed into a reasonably effective Apex lending institution and played an
important role in the aftermath of closure of the public DFIs (paras. 6.5 and 9.1). Second, the proceeds
of Loan 2294-JM were used to finance 37 subprojects with aggregate project costs of about US$80.7
million. For every dollar disbursed by the IBRD, nearly six dollars equivalent of resources were
contributed by NDB, AFIs and subborrowers to the subprojects. Most subprojects weathered the
liberalization process reasonably well. Third, most of AFIs have built up capability for long-term
lending.

4.             The performance of the 37 subprojects financed has been generally good in terms of debt
servicing, employment creation and operational performance. Twenty four subloans were fully repaid
and thirteen subloans remained outstanding with no arrears with AFIs for over three months. These
subprojects created approximately 2,600 new jobs as against 1,650 estimated at the time of appraisal.
Out of thirty two firms on which information is available, twenty four firms (75%) are currently
operating profitably; five firms are currently operating at a loss; two subprojects were burnt down and
one subproject was closed down (para. 6.3).

5.         Sustainability. The institutionalarrangements for the two-tier credit system proved sustainable
as the arrangements had worked reasonably well under the project and the European Investment Bank,
Caribbean Development Bank, and the Inter-American Development Bank have subsequently used the
same arrangements. However, its current institutionalstructure and modus operandi should be reviewed
and modified as needed to introduce realistic policies and simpler procedures relevant to the liberalized
economic environment as well as the AFIs' enhanced capability for long-term lending and to ensure that
its related institutional arrangement is cost-effective (para. 7.1).     The sustainability of benefits of
subprojects financed is difficult to assess precisely. However, almost all tourism subprojects and export
oriented subprojects, having benefitted from the liberalizationof the exchangecontrol regime, performed
very well with few exceptions. Most of the import substitution subprojects were associated with well
established business groups and appeared to be well managed with sound financialstructure; they should
be able to adapt to the new business environment. Some import substitutionfirms, however, would need
to restructure their operations with a view to improving their productivity (para. 7.2).

6.           Findings and Lessons Leaned. The project has largely achieved its specific objectives. On
the whole, the project was well designed and carried out reasonably well, but specific financial soundness
criteria for financial intermediaries to become AFIs (the establishment and enforcement of which are now
mandatory in the Bank) should have been established and the respective roles of NDB and AFIs in
subloan appraisal, and their documentation could have been more realistically designed (para. 4.5). One
lesson that may be learned from the project has to do with the general framework of onlending rates to
AFIs and to the final beneficiaries. The onlending rate to AFIs should be linked to a market-based
reference rate and adjustedperiodically so that onlendingrates to the final beneficiariescan follow market
forces during the life of the subloan. The bulk of interestdifferential between rates on foreign borrowing
and (market-based) onlending rate to AFIs should accrue to the Government to enable it to assume the
foreign exchange risk without incurring major losses (para. 8.2).

                  PART I.  p                                   w

          -y

          Name              : Industrial Credit Project
          Loan Number       : 2294-JM
          RVP Unit          : Latin America and the Caribbean
          Country           : Jamaica
             Sector         : Industrial Finance
             Subsector      : Manufacturing and Tourism and Related Services


2.           Backqround

2.1          The key elements of the development objectives and strategy pursued
by the Government at the time of project appraisal in November 1982 were: (a)
stabilization and economic growth in conjunction with an outward-looking
strategy; and (b) freer play of market forces and an expaneion of the private
sector.  With the support of the IMF and the Bank during the early 1 9 8 0 ~the
                                                                              ~
Government executed several structural adjustment programs.     The Government
emphasized a reduction of its role and began to reduce state interventions so
as to eliminate distortions in resource allocation.     The goal was to foster
Jamaica's comparative advantages and attain a balanced, stable and sustained
growth in output, income and employment.     The Loan was approved in May 1983.

2.2          As part of the institutional and policy reforms, the Government
decided in 1981 to phase out three public development financial institutions
(DFIs) involved in industrial lending, namely, the Jamaica Development Bank
(JDB), the Small Induetries Finance Co. (SIFCO) and Premier Investment Corp.
(PIC). The first two institutions and their predeceaeore had not performed
well and had a historically poor record of loan collections.     The third one, a
separate agency of the Bank of Jamaica, had provided credit through commercial
banks for small businesses; it was focusing on the collection of outstanding
loans and winding up its operations since 1982.     Bank assistance was requested
in organizing and financing a publicly-owned National Development Bank (NDB),
a new second-tier (Apex) inetitution that would be insulated from the credit
risk by onlending through commercial banks and other financial intermediaries.

3.           Proiect Obiectives and Description

3.1          The Project objectives were to:

     (a) assist NDB in establishing and testing sound policies, procedures
             and organizational arrangement6 for financing private investment
             projects;

     (b) provide term financing to NDB for onlending through approved
             financial intermediaries (AFIe) for sound industrial projects of

                    new and expanding p r i v a t e e n t e r p r i s e s and, i n t h e process, t o
                    improve t h e f i n a n c i a l position and efficiency of t h e s e enterprises;
                    and

          ( c )     induce commercial banks and other f i n a n c i a l intermediaries t o
                    undertake appraisal, financing and supervision of sound investment
                    projects.

3.2                 The project provided USS15.1 million f o r financing:                         ( a ) t h e foreign
exchange component of subloans extended by NDB f o r subprojects i n t h e
manufacturing, i n d u s t r i a l , agro-industrial, mining, tourism, and r e l a t e d
services sectors.                   (Large bauxite-alumina e n t e r p r i s e s w e r e not e l i g i b l e f o r
funding.); ( b ) t r a i n i n g and technical assistance program f o r NDB and
participating intermediaries; and ( c ) acquiring micro-computer equipment and
s o f t w e ~ e ,and o f f i c e equipment of up t o USS100,OOO equivalent.                         The loan was
t o finance construction and/or renovation of i n d u s t r i a l s t r u c t u r e s , purchase
of machinery and equipment, permanent working c a p i t a l , and technical
assistance t o f i n a l beneficiaries f o r preinvestment and market studies,
t r a i n i n g and consulting services.               NDB did not use t h e Loan proceeds f o r
financing technical assistance and t r a i n i n g and acquisition of microcomputers
noted i n i t e m s ( b ) and ( c ) above a s both i t e m s w e r e m e t by other sources of
funds     .

4.                  Project Desisn and Orqanization

4.1                 NDB was established i n 1981 and has operated a s an apex o r second-
tier institution, providing t e r m finance t o business enterprises engaged i n
manufacturing and tourism and r e l a t e d services through a network of -1s.                                     The
Government of Jamaica, t h e Borrower, passed on t h e Bank loan proceeds t o NDB
on t h e same terms a s t h e Bank loan but i n JS a t t h e o f f i c i a l exchange r a t e a t
t h e time of t h e respective disbursements.                         Thus, t h e Government assumed t h e
f u l l exchange r i s k .             The loan was f o r 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with t h e standard variable i n t e r e s t r a t e .               The e l i g i b i l i t y conditions f o r AFIs
enabled a l l f i n a n c i a l i n s t i t u t i o n s l e g a l l y established and approved by NDB t o
p a r t i c i p a t e i n t h e program provided t h a t they have experience i n appraising
and supervising term loans and t h a t they designate a t l e a s t one senior
executive a s being responsible f o r project evaluation and co-ordination with
NDB.        NDB had t h e r i g h t t o withdraw its approval of any AFI a t its own
discretion.             NDB's       Statements of P o l i c i e s and Strategy and Operating C r i t e r i a ,
accepted by t h e Bank, d i d not specify f i n a n c i a l soundness c r i t e r i a f o r
f i n a n c i a l i n s t i t u t i o n s t o become and remain an AFI.            AFIs w e r e t o be
responsible, i n addition t o assuming t h e c r e d i t r i s k on t h e i r subloans, f o r
appraisal and supervision of subprojects they financed and semi-annual
submission t o NDB of t h e i r f i n a n c i a l statements and subproject supervision
reports.            NDB was expected t o ensure not only t h e f i n a n c i a l v i a b i l i t y but a l s o
t h e economic and technical v i a b i l i t y of each subproject.                            Each AFI waa
obligated t o repay NDB according t o an agreed schedule, regardless of whether
a subborrower m e t its repayment obligationa o r not.                             NDB waa t o review
annually operations of AFIs with respect t o t h e i r i n t e r f a c e with NDB.

4.2       The Bank loan was to finance: (a) 100% of foreign exchange costs
for imported iteme; (b) 65% of the coete of locally procured goods; and (c)
30% of expenditures for civil worke required for the eubproject.  Final
beneficiariee (eubborrowers), AFIe and NDB (out of ite local reeourcee) were
expected to contribute for subproject financing.  The subborrowere were
expected to comply with a maximum debt-equity ratio of 4:l in the case of
subprojecte with net fixed aeeete below J$300,000, and 3:l with net fixed
assets above thie amount.  All eubprojecte would be reviewed and approved by
NDB in accordance with the evaluation criteria contained in its project
appraieal manual approved by the Bank.  AFIe had a free limit with NDB of
J$100,000 and NDB had a free limit with the Bank of USS250,OOO equivalent.
The internal rate of return (IRR) was to be calculated for all subprojects
with net aeeete above J$100,000 and the economic rate of return (ERR) for all
eubprojecte whose net fixed aeeet value, including eubloan financing, exceeded
J$500,000.  Cut-off IRR and ERR ueed by NDB were 12%.  The maximum subloan
limit of USS2.0 million was establiehed through an amendment to the Loan
Agreement.  Although the Loan Agreement wae amended to open and thereafter
maintain a Special Account to facilitate diebureemente for eligible
expenditures, nearly all (about 98%) eubloan diebureemente were made on the
baeie of full documentation.  The NDB'e onlending rate to AFIe would be at
least 12% p.a. plue a 1% one-time front-end fee.  AFIe were to onlend the loan
proceed8 to final beneficiariee at a minimum of 15% p.a. (retaining a 3%
epread) plue a one-time front-end fee not exceeding 2%.  Except for the early
stage of implementation when both NDB and AFIe charged the minimum ratee, the
NDB's onlending rate varied between 13% and 17% during the project
implementation; and intereet rate to final beneficiaries, between 16% and 20%.
The maturities of eubloane, which were expected to be for 3 to 10 yeare
including 3 years of grace, varied according to debt eervice capacity of the
individual eubprojecte but were generally ehorter than the maximum allowable
eubloan repayment schedule.

4.3       NDB wae expected to endeavor to earn profit and to maintain a debt-
equity ratio not exceeding 5:l.  NDB'e operations were profitable becauee of a
generoue epread and guaranteed loan collections from AFIe. Its financial
structure wae doubtleeely sound before the ieeue of the foreign exchange
loeees surfaced (para. 5.3).  Its maximum financial exposure in a single
enterprise (or a group of enterprises with joint capital or management
control) was limited to 25% of NDB'e net worth or USS2 million.  No subloan
under the Bank loan exceeded thie limit.  By the time Loan 2294-JM became
effective, NDB'e paid-in capital reached JS10.0 million and a USS6.0 million
line of credit wae aleo made available by the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB).

4.4       At the time of project appraisal, NDB'e Board of Directore
consisted of eight membere, four of whom were from the private eector
including the Board's Chairman.  NDB wae expected to have a modeet number of
well qualified profeeeional etaff, including economiete, financial analyete
and engineers.  At the time of appraieal, the NDB'e etaff etrength wae found
satisfactory to initiate operations under the Bank loan8. NDB obtained the
eervicee of an expatriate advieor for about one year.

4.5       The project's scope and timing were appropriate.   The project funds
covered all the productive activities in the manufacturing, induetrial, agro-
industrial, mining, touriem, and related eervice eectore.  The project'e two-
tier credit eyetem wae timely and neceeeary in view of the planned closure of
the public DFIS (para. 2.2).  On the other hand, the Bank agreed with the
Government'e initial thought that NDB ehould be engaged, in due couree, in all
the function8 of the previoue institutione, including direct lending and
equity inveetmente.  The Bank continued to pureue thie thought, particularly
during project preparation and the initial etage of project implementation,
until a private development bank etarted operations in May 1985.  However, the
Government did not allow NDB to begin direct lending becauee of underetandable
feare that thie could lead NDB into the eame probleme euffered by the previous
inetitutione.  Thue, the ieeue of potential conflict of intereet that could
have arieen from NDB'e dual rolee ae the apex institution and ae a retail
lender was avoided.  However, the Bank'e endorsement of the Government'e
initial perception of NDB'e potential dual rolee wae reflected in the NDB'e
Statement of Policiee and Operating Criteria, which include elaborate
guidelines normally applicable to a typical DFC.  On the whole, the project
wae well deeigned, but epecific financial eoundneee criteria for financial
intermediaries to become AFIe ehould have been eetabliehed, and the reepective
rolee of NDB and AFIe in eubloan appraieal and eupervieion, and their
documentation could have been more realietically deeigned.

5.        Proiect Implementation

5.1       1                                              The final
diebureement took place in July 1990, 31 months after the original Cloeing
Date of December 31, 1987.  An undiebureed balance of US$326,796 wae canceled
on July 27, 1990.  Diebureemente were completed in a eeven-year period,
elightly elower than the etandard diebureement profile for apex type lending.
Three factore were mainly reeponeible for the elower than expected pace of
diebureemente: (a) clouded investment climate, particularly in the early etage
of project implementation due to a combination of factore including labor
unrest; (b) NDB'e decieion not to use IBRD funde for indirect foreign exchange
coat and working capital until late 1986; and (c) need for replacing
eubprojecte, approved earlier but remained dormant, with new onee.

5.2       Proiect Riske.   The project did not involve any unueual rieke.  Of
the potential rieke identified and diecueeed in the appraieal report, the riek
of NDB'e aeeuming a greater reeponeibility for eubproject appraieale had some
eignificant implicatione.  A number of AFIs readily accepted that, during the
period of project implementation, they had built up the capability of (and
eometimee undertaken) appraieal of the riek involved in long-term lending;
thie is borne out by the fact that most connnercial banks in Jamaica have
establiehed either a corporate finance unit or a merchant bank eubeidiary.
However, NDB continued to undertake project appraieal and eupervieion and ite
modue operandi basically remained unchanged.  The underlying rationale for
NDB'e continuing involvement in the preparation of detailed project appraieal
reporte wae to eatiefy the requirement of international financial
inetitutione.  Related to thie, it ehould be noted that the Bank'e June 1986
eupervieion miseion recommended (and NDB management agreed) that in caeee

where AFIs' loan evaluation reporte together with f e a s i b i l i t y studiee, i n
NDB's judgment, cover most important aspects of a subproject proposal
adequately, NDB send IBRD copies of AFIs' reporte and f e a s i b i l i t y studies
together with NDB'e summary reports ( 3 t o 5 pages) supplementing MIS'
reports/studies.               This recommendation wae not teeted under t h e project.
Despite a l l t h i s , NDB's working relationship with AFIs with respect t o
subproject appraisal was good, mainly because of NDB's willingness t o work
with AFIs a t t h e e a r l y stage of eubproject appraisal.

5.3                Actions o r Decisions Taken o r not Taken which Affected Proiect
I m ~ a t a t i o n . A question was raised within t h e Bank during t h e Loan
Committee review on t h e 1%p.a.                  f e e on eubloans requiring foreign currency
financing since t h a t f e e did not appear t o be adequate t o cover t h e foreign
exchange risk.             It was clarified that the Government had decided t o relend the
procef9e of Loan 2294-JM t o NDB on t h e same terms a s t h e Bank loan but i n J$
and t h a t t h e 1%premium on "foreign exchange loane" would remain with NDB.
(Under Loan 2294-JM, t h e Government, i n addition, undertook t o prevent NDB
from incurring any exchange losses resulting from its borrowing operations.)
Against t h i e background, NDB applied t h e 1%p.a.                    premium on subloans funded
out of foreign borrowing although subloans w e r e denominated i n J$.                        This
practice had t h e following consequences.                   F i r s t , t h e 1%
                                                                                p.a. onlending r a t e
d i f f e r e n t i a l i n favor of locally mobilized J$ resources provided disincentive
f o r AFIs t o use IBRD funds f o r financing t h e indirect foreign exchange
component of subproject costs.                    Second, t h e additional 1%i n t e r e e t charge on
loans funded out of foreign borrowing provided a b a s i s f o r an arrangement
between t h e Government and NDB under which NDB would recover from t h e
Government t h e foreign exchange loseea i n exceea of accumulated additional
i n t e r e s t charges.         This arrangement was used with a view to protecting NDB
from exchange losses resulting from its d i r e c t borrowing from other
international financial i n s t i t u t i o n s with t h e Government's guarantee.               The
June 1985 Bank miseion found t h a t t h i s arrangement (outlined i n t h e
Government's letter t o NDB of June 6, 1983) was vague and technically
deficient: vague because t h e timing of t h e Government's indemnifying NDB such
lossee was unclear, and deficient because t h e arrangement did not provide
adequate compensation f o r t h e Government's aesuming t h e foreign exchange risk.
The same mission recognized t h e need f o r introducing a new mechanism under
which t h e Government should be adequately compensated f o r assuming t h e f u l l
exchange r i s k while protecting NDB from incurring any exchange lose.                         I n its
letter t o NDB dated August 16, 1985, the Bank proposed that NDB introduce a
variable i n t e r e s t r a t e syetem (i.e., automatic, periodic adjustment of
onlending r a t e s linked t o a eelected base r a t e during t h e l i f e of subloans)
under t h e proposed Second Industrial Credit project i n order t h a t onlending
r a t e e t o t h e f i n a l beneficiaries could generally follow market force8 during
t h e l i f e of subloans and, equally important, t o enable t h e Government t o
assume t h e foreign exchange r i s k without incurring major losses.                       But, t h e
proposed follow-up Bank credit operation did not materialize.                         A variable
i n t e r e s t r a t e system was introduced i n 1991, a f t e r project completion.              After
t h e f u l l l i b e r a l i z a t i o n of exchange control regime i n September 1991 and t h e
subsequent depreciation of J$, NDB has recognized eignificant foreign exchange
losses on its foreign currency borrowing; NDB is t r y i n g t o recover such losses
from t h e Government under t h e arrangement noted above.

5.4       At the time of appraisal, NDB was required to review with the Bank
at least annually NDB'e lending ratee and, if neceeeary, to revise them in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.  NDB'e discount rates hovered around 13% to
17% and onlending ratee to financial beneficiaries, around 16% to 20% plus a
front end fee not exceeding 2%.  NDB's lending ratee were at times below the
commercial banke' weighted average deposit rate and onlending ratee to
financial beneficiaries were negative in real terms particularly at the early
etage of project implementation.  NDB, at the repeated urging of the Bank,
raised its diecount rate by 3% to 17% on foreign funded resources in March
1985.  Since then, intereet rates to final beneficiaries were generally
positive in real terms during the project implementation period but lower than
market ratee.

          Proiect Reeults

6.1       Achievements of Proiect Obiectivee.  The project has largely met
its specific objectives noted in paragraph 3.  Firet, NDB'e Statement of
Policies and Strategy and its Operating Criteria introduced under the project
have been found, by and large, sound and provieione therein have generally
been complied with by NDB and AFIe with the exception of AFIs' reporting on
subproject performance (para. 6.4).  Although, its Statement of Policy and
Strategy permite it to ieeue guaranteee, enter into cofinancing arrangements,
extend direct loans, make underwriting commitments, and participate in equity
inveetmente, NDB ha8 been operating only as a second-tier inetitution in order
not to repeat a history of the public DFIe for which NDB subetituted.  From a
modeet start, NDB has developed into a reaeonably effective second-tier
lending institution and played an important role in the aftermath of the
closure of public DFIe (paras. 6.5 and 9.1).  Second, the proceeds of Loan
2294-JM were used to finance 37 eubprojects with aggregate project costs of
about USS80.7 million.  For every US dollar disbursed by IBRD, nearly six US
dollare equivalent of resources were contributed by NDB, AFIe and eubborrowers
to subprojects.  Moat subprojecte weathered the liberalization process
reasonably well.  Almost all touriem subprojects and export oriented
subprojecte, having benefitted from the full liberalization of the exchange
control regime, are currently operating profitably.  Moet of the import
substitution eubprojecte were aeeociated with well eetablished business groups
and appeared to be well managed; some of them were actively exploring the
possibility of penetrating CARICOM markets.  Actual performance of eubprojects
was generally good; most of them fully repaid eubloane to AFIe on t h e and
thoee eubborrowere with outstanding eubloan balances had no arreare with AFIe
(para. 6.3).  In reepect of the third objective, most of AFIs that the PCR
preparation mission interviewed explained that they have built up capability
for long-term lending (para. 5.2).

6.2       Impact of Proiect.  (a) Characteristics of Subprojects financed are
ehown in Annex 6.1.  A total of 37 eubprojects were financed with an aggregate
subproject coet of approximately USS80.7 million, of which IBRD funding
amounted to USS14.7 million or about 18.2% of the total, with final
beneficiaries (eubborrowers) and AFIe making up the balance.  One eubborrower
received two eubloane (for two separate eubprojects) totalling US$253,000; and
thus 36 subborrowere benefitted from the project.  Of the 37 subprojecte, 12

relatively large (involving IBRD funding above the "free limitn of US$250,000)
subprojects absorbed USS12.3 million equivalent of IBRD resources, or 83.7% of
the credit component.  The remaining 25 subprojects were for eubloans of leee
than US$250,000 and received a total of USS2.4 million equivalent of IBRD
reeourcee.  The average eubloan eize for the larger eubprojects was in the
order of USS1.0 million and for the smaller, in the order of USS100,OOO.  On
the whole, the average eubloan size wae USS397,000, the largest being USS2.O
million and the smallest being USS6,OOO.  Fifteen (15) eubloane were made for
new projects; and the remaining 22, for expansion and/or rehabilitation
projects.  In terme of sectore, eubloane totalling USS5.99 million were
channelled for ten food processing projects; USS4.68 million, for seven
tourism projects; and USS0.44 million for five garment projecte.  The
remaining fifteen eubloane totalling USS3.62 million coneieted of: four in
packaging (USS2.13 million); nine in various manufacturing (USS0.87 million);
one in agro-industry (USS0.57 million); and one in the eervice eector (USS0.05
million).

6.3       (b) Performance of Subloans.  The performance of the eubprojects
financed has been generally good in terme of debt servicing, operational
performance and employment creation.  As of February 14, 1992, twenty four
subloans were fully repaid and thirteen eubloane remained outetanding with no
arrears with AFIs for over three months.  Four outstanding eubloans, however,
had a history of their grace period extended during the project implementation
period.  The Bank's PCR preparation miseion visited eighteen eubprojecte and
had extensive diacuesions with AFIs and NDB on the performance of moet of
eubprojecte financed.  According to information obtained from the field
vieite, AFIe and NDB (Annex 6.2), nineteen firme are operating profitably and
are likely to achieve ratee of return higher than NDB's cut-off rate of 12%;
five firme had a hietory of initial difficultiee but are currently operating
profitably with the poesibility of ratee of return being in the range of the
NDB'e cut-off rate; five firme are currently operating at a lose; two
eubprojecte were burnt down and one subproject wae closed down.  Information
on four companiee, for which subloans totalling USS245,OOO were extended, was
not available as theee firme had fully repaid subloane some time ago and eince
then their banking relationship with AFIe wae not active.  Thue, out of thirty
two firme on which information is available, twenty four firme (75%) are
currently operating profitably.  Subprojects financed created 2,587 new jobs
compared with 1,650 estimated at the time of appraisal of Loan 2294-JM.

6.4       (c) Participating Financial Intermediariee. Eleven financial
institutions participated in the project.  All AFIs are privately owned or
controlled by the private eector.  Annex 6.3 shows a summary of each AFI'e
participation in the project.  The moet active, in terme of number of
eubprojecte financed, were four commercial banks.  Theee banks, taken
together, financed 24 eubprojecte while each bank financed five to seven
projects.  The remaining eeven AFIs (three merchant banks, four commercial
banks) financed thirteen projects.  In two inetancee, eeveral AFIs cofinanced
eubprojecte to avoid concentration of the credit riek.  With one exception,
the financial performance of AFIs seemed to have been satisfactory throughout
the project implementation period.  In the caee of one commercial bank, NDB
euepended ite eligibility pending its restructuring.  Moet of the commercial

banks that participated in the project established a corporate finance unit or
a merchant bank subsidiary.  Judging from the generally good performance of
subborrowera (para. 6.3), AFIs did a good job in selecting creditworthy
project sponsors. Representatives of the nine AFIs the PCR preparation
mission interviewed indicated that they followed up closely the credit and
financial standing of subborrowers until subloans were fully repaid.   They
exchanged information on subborrowers during semi-annual meetings with NDB
officials in lieu of submitting reports on subproject performance required
under NDB's Operating Criteria.

6.5        (d) The National Development Bank (NDB).  NDB has developed into a
reasonably sound second-tier credit institution.   It has played an important
role in the aftermath of closure of public DFIs by: (a) tapping foreign
currency resources (totalling about USS71.0 million equivalent) not only from
IBRD but also from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
and the European Investment Bank (EIB); and (b) channelling these funds
through AFIs to over 340 subprojecte in various sectors.   It has four
departments (Projects, Finance and Accounts, Administration & Legal, and
Special Projects) and the internal audit unit.   NDB has a total of 73 staff
(including 22 professionals).  One of the main reasons for having the large
number of staff has been that NDB has managed, at the request of the
Government, the liquidation/administration of portfolios of the now defunct
Jamaica Developnent Bank, Small Enterprise Developnent Corporation (SEDCO),
Small Industries Finance Co. (SIFCO), and Premier Investment Corp. (PIC). The
Bank had originally encouraged NDB to build up its project-oriented staff, but
it did so in the light of NDB's role perceived by the Bank as a project
promoter, evaluator and provider of technical assistance.   In 1984 when the
total number of NDB staff reached 30 people and, subsequently, as it became
clear that NDB would not involve itself in direct lending, a question was
raised within the Bank as to whether a rapid increase in NDB staff was
necessary.  Since then, the number of NDB staff increased further partly for
the reason noted above.

6.6       At the time of appraisal, NDB's loan commitments were projected to
total about USS109.5 million during the 1983-87 period but the actual loan
commitments, according to NDB's data, were about USS56.3 million during the
five-year period (Annex 8).  Between 1988 and 1990, NDB'e annual loan
commitments averaged around USS25 million.  Despite the lower-than-anticipated
lending volume, NDB'a profits were higher than the levels projected for the
FY84-87 period due entirely to a higher spread than projected.   NDB's after
tax income totalled nearly JS15 million during four and half years ended March
31, 1987 as against JS5.8 million projected for FY83-87 (refer to Annex 9).
Its return on equity hovered around 8.3% to 17.8% during the FY86-90 period
before it dropped to 2.4% in FY91 due to the large amount of provisions made
for the foreign exchange loee.  As diecussed in para. 5.3, NDB is, in
principle, protected from foreign exchange losaee; nevertheless, given the
sharp JS depreciations which took place in FY91 and the potential difficulties
in early recovery of the foreign exchange losses from the Government, the
NDB's Board decided to make provisions against non-recovery of these losses
amounting to JS20.6 million for FY91 ended on March 31, 1991.   Further sharp

depreciations took place during FY92 and NDB is attempting to recover these
additional foreign exchange losses from the Government.  NDB's total assets
have grown at an average rate of about 35% annually, during the FY85-91
period.  Its liquidity position has been comfortable with guaranteed loan
collections and its financial structure has been strong with a debtlequity
ratio of below 2.5:1, considerably below the maximum limit of 5:l specified
under NDB's Statement of Policy and Strategy, before the issue of the foreign
exchange losses has surfaced.  Audited balaace sheets and income statements
for FY85-91 are shown in Annexes 7.1 and 7.2.

          Project Sustainabilitv

7.1       The institutional arrangements for the two-tier credit system,
established and tested in Jamaica under this project, proved sustainable for
some time as the arrangements had worked reasonably well under the project and
the European Investment Bank, Caribbean Development Bank, and Inter-American
Development Bank have subsequently used the same arrangement.  NDB has played
an important role in filling a gap in the aftermath of closure of all public
DFIs in Jamaica.  However, while the two-tier credit mechanism, in one form or
another, would continue to be necessary over the medium and longer term, the
current institutional structure and modus operandi should be reviewed
carefully and modified as necessary to introduce realistic policies and
simpler procedures relevant to the liberalized economic environment as well as
the AFIs' enhanced capability for long-term lending and to ensure that the
related institutional arrangement is cost-effective.

7.2       The suetainability of benefits of subprojects financed is difficult
to aseess precisely.  However, the seventeen subborrowere that the Bank PCR
preparation mission had visited performed fairly well with the exception of
two projects.  Needless to say, their output and employment levels will
fluctuate over time.  But, their generally good performance to date in
competing in a liberalized domestic market and regional (and in a limited way
in extra regional) markets, apparently well established management, and sound
financial structure suggest that most of these seventeen firms, if not already
benefitting f r m liberalized economic environment, are capable of adapting to
the new business environment. Some small subborrowers went under but the
subprojects financed were apparently well run by new owners.  Some import
subetitution firms are currently struggling to stay afloat and are considering
the restructuring of their operations with a view to improving their
productivity.

8.        Bank Performance

8.1       1tothe                           Bank staff contributed
establishment of policies and procedures of NDB and the smooth working of the
two-tier credit system through supportive working relationships and
professional advice.  However, unlike the Government which abandoned its own
idea of letting NDB have dual roles (para. 4.5), the Bank continued to pursue,
at the initial stage of project implementation and before the emergence of a
private sector development bank, that NDB should also be involved in direct
lending and equity investments in order to ensure the access of sound and

potentially profitable projecte of emaller or new enterprieea to development
funde.  For the reaeone etated in para. 4.5, the Government did not allow NDB
to lend directly.  Ae NDB did not function ae a retail lender in addition to
ite apex role, the iaeue of conflict of intereet was avoided.  However,
potential dual rolee built into the NDB8e Statement of Policy and Strategy may
be reeponeible for overly structured reepective rolee of NDB and AFIe in
eubloan appraieal and eupervieion and their documentation.  Ae the propoeed
eecond induetrial credit project, which wae prepared in 1985, did not
materialize becauee NDB opted to tap reeourcee of other multilateral financial
inetitutione noted in para. 7.1, the Bank could not effectively pereuade NDB
to implement the Bank eupervieion mieeione' epecific recomendatione on
onlending ratee (para. 5.3) and other aepecte (para. 5.2).

8.2       Leesone Learned.  One leeeon that may be learned from the
experience in the project hae to do with the general framework of onlending
ratee to AFIe and to the final beneficiariee. Ae diecueeed in paragraph 5.3,
the onlending rate to AFIe ehould have been linked to a market baaed reference
rate and adjueted periodically eo that onlending ratee to the final
beneficiariee could generally have followed market force8 during the life of
the eubloan.  The bulk of intereet differential between ratee on foreign
borrowinge and (market-baaed)onlending rate to AFIe ehould have accrued to
the Government to enable it to aeeume the foreign exchange riek without
incurring major loeeee.

9.        Borrower'e Performance

9.1       Mafn. Borrower(theGovernment)and
                                         The
the project executing agency (NDB) were efficient in completing the condition6
of effectiveneee. The Borrower reeieted, for the good reaeone noted in para.
4.5, the nudging from the Bank to let NDB move into direct lending. While the
Government hae yet to indemnify NDB the foreign exchange loeeee on NDB'e
foreign currency liabilitiee (para. 5.3), the Government eupported the emooth
functioning of NDB by eneuring that NDB continue8 to have foreign currency
reeourcee for onlending to AFIe through facilitating NDB'e mobilization of
reeourcee from varioue multilateral financial inetitutione. NDB'e acceee to
four different multilateral financial inetitutione, particularly at the early
stage of inetitutional developnent, eeemed to have booeted NDB'e confidence in
its policiee and proceduree. Aleo, NDB'e high profitability during FY86-89
did not help etimulate eerioue thinking on the evolution of the role of NDB
and related policies and proceduree.  Nevertheleee, NDB carried out the
Induetrial Credit project well due mainly to ite willingneee to work with AFIe
from the early etage of eubproject appraieal through subproject completion.
NDB'e involvement in eubproject appraieal and eupervieion, however, hae had
some implicat.ione for NDB'e high adminietrative coat which hovered around 2.3-
2.5% of average total aeeete.  Thie ie on the high aide for a second-tier
inetitution. Although NDB'e profitability wae high during 1986-89 before the
ieeue of foreign exchange loeeee eurfaced, it wae due to generous intereet
spread (or the abeence of adequate annual provieioning for foreign exchange
loeeee). During the project implementation period, the Bank worked with the
NDB'e Managing Director appointed at the outeet of the project.   He wae well
reepected within NDB and by AFIe.  NDB experienced a turnover of middle

management: departure of a project economiet whoee poeition wae never filled;
untimely death of the former Director of the Projecte Department; and
departure of Director of Finance.  The latter two poeitione were filled
through internal promotion.  The NDB'e current management team including the
new Chief Executive Officer ie addreeeing the ieeue of NDB'e future role in
the liberalized economic environment.

10.       Proiect Relationehi~e

10.1      Bank relationehip with the Borrower on the project, while somewhat
etrained at the beginning of the project becauee of the Bank'e euggeetione on
NDB'e carrying out direct lending, hae been generally good.  The Bank
relationship with NDB has aleo been good.  NDB hae maintained good
relationehipe with the AFIe and private eector borrowere.




11.1      The need for technical aeeietance for helping NDB did not arise.




12.1      The Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were appropriate for the
project.  The etaff appraieal report provided a useful framework for both the
Bank and NDB during project implementation. NDB'e file8 on eubprojecte were
well maintained and the data on performance of aubprojecta were available ae
NDB, in accordance with ite policy, prepared eubproject completion reporte in
many caeee, in addition to reporte on follow-up vieite.

                                                        PART I1
                                                    Pase 1 of 2

                    INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT

             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR) PART I1

                           LOAN 2294-JM

Introduction

This report (Part I1 of the completion report on Loan 2294-JM) is
prepared by the National Development Bank (NDB) of Jamaica Limited
as executing agent for the Government of Jamaica (the Borrower).
This report is intended to be analytical and selective (rather than
descriptive and comprehensive) in commenting on the design and
effectiveness of the project and lessons learned.'

Adeauacv and Accuracv of the Factual Information contained in Part
I11

Part I11 of the PCR presents fairly the factual information on the
project  implementation,   characteristics    and  performance   of
subprojects, and NDBts financial and operational performance.



NDB has no major comments (nor disagreement) on the analysis
contained in Part I, which was found thorough and exceedingly
candid yet well-balanced.    However, the dynamic nature of the
financial sector particularly during the period of structural
adjustment which coincided with the project implementation period
can not be over-emphasized. NDB fully concurs with the assessment
as presented in paragraph 6.1 of Part I that the project has
largely met its specific objectives.   However, with regard to the
third objective (i.e:,    to induce commercial banks and other
financial intermediaries to undertake appraisal, financing and
supervision of sound investment projects), NDB, while admitting the
significant progress to date, still believes that more can be done
in this area.

The loan 2294-JM was secured at a time when NDB in its infancy
needed resources in both local and foreign currency to support its
lending.    The Project was prepared      and  appraised by    IBRD
expeditiously, reflecting the high level of understanding and
cooperation that existed between officers of NDB and IBRD. NDB is
satisfied with the resulting developments/subprojects that were
assisted from the proceeds of this loan.


     'The Government, by its letter of December 10, 1992, has
confirmed its approval of Part XI of the project completilon report
(PCR) prepared by the NDB.

                                                          PART I1
                                                     Page 2 of 2
-E            OF IBRD

  The performance of IBRD has been very good and its staff have been
  very cooperative.   The NDB is pleased to have collaborated with
  IBRD on this undertaking.     IBRD played a significant role of
  facilitating and supporting the institutional development of NDB as
  a J~wholesalefinstitution.

While there were no major problems experienced in the execution of
  the programme, the following area is listed for the record and only
  at the IBRDfs request.

  Reassignment of IBRD personnel resulted initially in loss of
  continuity and personal contact between IBRD and NDB officers. It
  is noted that the officer currently responsible for NDBfs operation
  has provided continuity for some time.     In any event, officers
  assigned  to   NDB s  programme   were  usually   cooperative  and
  enthusiastic.

  NDBfs Performance.,Sustainabilitv and Lessons Learned

  NDB is proud of the successful results of the Industrial Credit
  Project as presented in Part I. Also, it should be noted that NDB
  has played an important role in the aftermath of the closure of
  some public Development Finance Institutions (DFIs) i.e. Jamaica
  Development Bank (JDB), Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) and
  Small Enterprises Development Corporation, etc.       The two-tier
  lending system introduced under the project worked smoothly (due
mainly to NDBfs willingness to work with AFIs from the early stage
  of project appraisal through project completion) and has been used
  by other multi-lateral lenders.   Despite all this, NDB management
  is keenly aware that NDB is at the crossroad given the liberalized
  economic environment (which encourages the institution to review
  the appropriateness of its existing policies and procedures) and
  the -1s'  increased capability for long-term lending (out of their
  own deposit resources and/or direct external borrowing).   NDB has
  been exploring various options for adapting itself to making
  further contribution toward development of the financial sector.
Toward    this end,   NDB   has  recently collaborated with    other
  Government-owned and private sector institutions in establishing
  the 'Jamaica Venture FundJ (JVF) which is intended to promote and
  foster the development of new projects by way of equity injection.

One positive lesson that may be learned from the experience is that
AFIs and the Apex institution (NDB) can usefully work together from
the    early stage of    subproject appraisal    through subproject
completion, particularly when AFIs lack necessary expertise and
experience in long-term lending.     Of course, such an arrangement
would entail high administrative cost on the part of the Apex
  institution. Therefore, this aspect should be carefully assessed
and a special effort for containing administrative costs would be
needed.

                                                             RELATED Brn LOLVS


Loan No. 1                                                                                    Year of
Project T i t l e                                            Purpose                          Approval    Scatue


Ln 1003-JH                     To bring housing, essencial commnity                            1974       Cloeed
S i t e e and S e w i c e e    eerpices and job opportuniciee to Janaica'e                                (1982)
                               lover income groups.

Ln 1609-JH                     To provide foreign exchange f o r SSEs; t o                     1978       Closed
Small-Scale Entarpriee         involve commercial banking system i n landing                              (1983)
Development                    t o SSEs; t o increase f l o v of b a k a b l e SSE
                               projecte; and co e s t a b l i s h SEDCO f o r
                               eerpicing very small-scale enterprises.

Ln 1715-Jn                     To eupport Covernmencle o v e r a l l e f f o r t s t o         1979       Closed
Second Program Loan            etimulate exports of nontraditional                                        (1982)
(EDF-I)                        manufactured goods by assuring continued
                               a v a i l a b i l i t y of foreign exchange, by
Ln 1978-Jn                     circumventing tho cunbersonie and inadequate                    1981       Closed
Export Dev. Fund-11            foreign exchange allocation eyetem, by easing                              (1983)
                               accese t o import financing c r e d i t s and terme,
Ln 2320-Jn                     and by encouraging private investment f o r                     1983       Cancelled
Export Dev. Fund-111           exports.                                                                   (4130185)

Ln 2105-JH SAL-I               To f o s t e r export-led development and t o                   1982       Cloeed
                               etrangthen the operacion of market forcee                                  (1983)
                               v i t h an enhanced r o l e f o r the private eector;
Ln 2315-Jn SAL-I1              t o improve public administration; and t o                      1983       Cloeed
                               develop an energy program t o reduce petroleum                             (1984)
                               importe and efianced export development
Ln 2678-Jn SAL-111             programs f o r labor-intensive manufactured and                 1984       Closed
                               a g r i c u l t u r a l producte.                                          (1985)


Ln 2848-JM                     To e r t a b l i s h a broad bared and more uniform             1987       Cloeed
Trade & FinnnciiL Sector       t a r i f f s t t u c t u r e v i t h appropriate incentives               (1988)
Adfuetment Operation-1         f o r exports; and t o reduce b i a s against
                               private inveetments.

Ln 3303-Jn                     To reduce protection and make it uniform                                   Active
Trade & Financial Sector       acroee rectors and subrectorr, and increase
Adjusunent Operation-I1        competition and efficiency of enterprisee;
                               and t o improve monetary policy management and
                               regulatorp framevork and supervision of
                               f inancial insticutions               .

                                                                       ANNEX
                          q
                                   JAMAICA

                                LOAN 2294-JM

                              PROJECT TIMETABLE


   1tem                     Date Planned      Date Revised      Date Actual


Identification
 (Project Brief)

Preparation

Appraisal Mission

Loan Negotiations

Board Approval

Loan Signature

Loan Effectiveness

Final Date for Subproject g/
Submission

Loan Closing &/



a/    The final date for the submission of subloan authorization requests
      (presentation of subloan applications) was extended from December 31,
      1985 to December 31, 1986 (on December 23, 1985) , to June 30, 1987 (on
      December 23, 1986) to March 31, 1989 (on January 6, 1989) to June 30,
      1989 (on March 8, 1989).

b/    The Loan Closing Date was extended from December 31, 1987 to June 30,
      1988 (January 1988) to December 31, 1988 (on July 19, 1988) and finally
      to December 31,1989 (on March 7, 1989).  Further, in accordance with the
      current practice of the Bank regarding the Closing Date, disbursements
      were to be made for withdrawal applications received at the Bank by
      April 30, 1990 (via January 10, 1990 letter).

                                                                  PART I11
                                                                  ANNEX 3
                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                                      JAMAICA
                             INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                     LOAN 2294

                                 LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
                   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements


                              SAR Estimate a/             Actual/    Actual/
                         Original      Revised     Actual  Original  Revised
                         --------      !2/    E/           Estimate  Estimate b/
                                  (US$ millions) --------     %         %



December 31, 1983
June 30, 1984

December 31, 1984
June 30, 1985

December 31, 1985           8.5      4.6
June 30, 1986              11.8      7.6

December 31, 1986          14.1     11.6
June 30, 1987              14.9     14.6

December 31, 1987          15.1     15.1
June 30, 1988

December 31, 1988
June 30, 1989

December 31, 1989
June 30, 1990
July 31, 1990

Date of Final Disbursement: July 27, 1990


a/    Subloans committed are assumed to be disbursed 213 within the following
      year and 113 in the second year.
b/    Revised as of February 24, 1984.
c/    Revised as of June 25, 1986.
g/    A loan amount of US$326,796 was canceled as of July 27, 1990.

                                                                                                                  PART I I L




                                                         STATUS OF COVENANTS



Section                                Subject                                                     Status


loan Aarecmenc

2.03(c)                  ALL subloan applications shall be presented t o the                 Final date was extended to
                         Bar* by Decemkr 31, 1985.                                           t o March 31, 1989.

                         Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-                   Conplied ( s a n e t i m with delay).
                         amually on May 15 and Novenber 15 of each year.

                         Borrouer shall repay the principal amunt i n                        Conplied (sometimes with delay).
                         accordance with the amortization schedule.

                         Borrower shall relend the Loan proceeds t o MOB                     Conplid.
                         udcr subsidiary Loan agreement, satisfactory to
                         the Bank.

                         Borrower shall not assign. emend, abrogate or                       Conplied.
                         waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

                         Borrower t o prwent MOB from incurring any                          Borrower's indennif ication of
                         exchange Losses resulting from i t s barrowing                      NOB1s exchange losses i s baing
                         oprations.                                                          discussed between both parties.

4.03tii) aJ              Borrower shall furnish t o the aank within                          C a r p l i e d .
                         six m t h s a f t e r the end of each f i s c a l year
                         audited report of the Special Account.

4.03(iii) g/             Borrower shall furnish t o the Bank monthly                         Conplied.
                         certified statements of the Special Account.


Proiect Aareemenf

                         WOE t o annually review and revise ( i f necessary)                 Conplied (differences betwen WOE
                         the interest rates i n consultation with the Bank.                  and the Bank were reconciled)

                         Within s i x months following the Last withdraual                   Expected by Jme 12, lW2
                          frm the Loan Accountin respect of the Subloans,
                         NDB t o furnish t o the Bank a project carpletion
                          report.
                         NDB shall enploy management and investment                          Need f o r consultants did not
                         consultants t o assist it i n the carrying out of                   arise during project
                         Part B of the Project.                                              irrplementation.

                         NDB shall exchange views with the Bank p r i o r t o                Conpl ied
                         ongaging in any lending or investment operatiom
                         other than areking NDB loans.

                         NDB shall furnish t o the Bank within s i x months                  Coaplied (socatimas with delay).
                         aftar the end of each fiscal year audited
                         finmncial statements and w d i t o r 8 s report.


g/  Seetian 4.03 uas addd t o the Loen Agreement i n August/Novcnkr 1984. By talex t o NO0 dated February 28, 19L15, the B&
    srrggested that the special account should ba audited by external auditors, acceptable t o the Bank, in the context of the
    overrll audit o t NDB8seccants and statements.

                                                                                                         PART I l I
                                                                                                         ANNEX 5


                                           PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                                                        JAMAICA
                                            INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                                    LOAN 2294-JY

                                              USE OF BANK RESOURCES

                                                  A.    Staff Inputs
                                                       (Staffweeks)


Stage of. Project Cycle                      Planned           Revised           Final          Comments


Through appraieal                               -               -                20.3               -
Appraisal through
  Board Agproval

Board Approval
  through Effectiveneee

Supervieion



     Total

a/      Relatee to FY88-FY91.
b/      Relates to FY90 and FY91.

                                                    B.    Missions

                                                       Staff                          Performance
Stage of Project               Month/    No. of        Days       Specialization       Rating       Types of
     Cyc1l                     Year      Persons      i n Field    Represented        Status g/     Problems bJ


Preparation                     10/82        1            6        Dev. Finance

Appraisal                       12/82        2             22      Dev. Finance

Appraisal through
Board Approval

Board Approval                  8/83         3             1       Dev. Finance             1         None
through                                                            Legal
Effectiveness


                                                                   Dev. Finance
                                                            5      Dev. Finance
                        -.-
                          v.   07i8S                        3 g/   n.a.
                        V I .   06/86                      1 0-d   Dev. FiMnce
                       V I I .  11/86                      10      Dev. Finance
                      V111.     10/87                       5 f/   DeV. Finance
                        IX.     02/88                       4 f/   DeV. Finance



g/ Key to Status: 1. Problem-free or minor problem; 2. Moderate problems.
    Key to Problem: M -Mmogerial; T   - TechnIcaL; P - Political; 0  - Other.
    D w to sultiple task assignnents, precise Information i s not available froa TORS, Fom 590, etc.
$/ The raquired Back-to-Office end Full Report are not available.
p/ Refers to Form 590 @tea     as of 6/30/80, 6/30/89 a d 6/30/90.
     -
    In conjmctim with missions for identification a d preparation of proposed industrial restructuring project.
n.a.   Form 590 or a full sqervision report i s not available.

                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                               t



                                                                                                                                                                    PART TI1
                                                                                                                                                                    ANNEX 6 . 1
                                                                                                 EKLJECT COHPLETJON REPORT

                                                                                                 - -



                                                                                             YAlIOYAL DEVELOPMEYT EWC Of JMAICA LIMITED



                                                                                    subroicct cost                                                     ~nrere.t       -
                                                                                                                                                                      P r r l c d
        S h -                                                      Appl lcmllnn                        Each.               Subloan Anvun~    lotml       Rate       I n years
 Serial Proj.                                                      Approval ~ a t c Est.    Actual     note      n.gastrd  Auth.    Actual   Flrurrinn (X p.m.)  Repay-               U * r  of
 Yo.    Yo.      Y n of S-ojmct                        Purpom*      blw             --- J$,OOO-.--     JS/USS    (JS.000)  ---(USt'WO)---    By Af l           ,amt   w    Grace #      Afl 9


 -AgSUBPROJEClS

 1.      0      ~ . o u i c af l c x o p r ~ i cLld.   Ycu           03.07.84        2.460    3,321     3.15       1.707     542       461    2.322       16       6             2      lfne

2.       1-02   E-Mart. Corp. L t d                    Yeu           OI.08.84        4,541    4.762      3.3       2,595     363       529                16        7           (3)       YCB
                                                                     04.16.85        5,245               5.0                 156              2.136       17        7           (3)

3.       A-04   Mctml Box Co. L t d                    Rehab.        06.22.84        9,135    1,500      4.0       5,600   1.400    1,406     6,463       16       5              2       El0

4.       1-05   Corlbbcan Prod. Ltd.                   Rehmb.        10.05.M        11,067   12.500      4.0       6.01%   1.516    1,102     6,244       16       5              1       HSB

5.       1.06   Dalry I d s s t r l e s (JII) Ltd.     Expon.        03.06.85        3.634    2,884      4.5       1,467     326       310    1,395       16       6              1     ClEC

6.       1-07   Project Conrultontr Ltd.               Rchab/Acqul.  01.17.86        6,231    4.980      4.0       1,200     300       235    3,762       16       6        (1.5)         JCB

7.       A-08   Joaalco Hotel Propcrticr               ~chab.        06.04.86       20,555   60.115      5.1       4.125     750       683                17      10              2       YCB
                                                                                    C4.670
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
8.       A-09   Buttcrklst Lld.                        Rehab.        06.Ob.M        24,154   24,500      5.5      11.000   2,000    1.988    10.985      17       10              2       ENS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  I-
9.       1      Clgmrettc to. of J I Ltd.              mchob.        11.13.86       14,754   15,000      5.5       9,401   1.709     1.453    7.997      IS      0.5            1.7        SMS  a

10.      8-13   Bloody Emy Dcv. Co. Ltd.               Ycu           04.23.87       93.570  154.000      5.5      11,000   2,000     1,910   11.061      19         7             2   MSE~YCE       I

11.     1-14    C i h y Yotcl Dev. Ltd.                Ycr           12.07.87       70.514   95,000      5.5       6.075   1,725     1.&2     ~.~
                                                                                                                                              9,719      18         6             1        Em c/

12.     4-16    Ycqort nillr ~ t d .                   Eapmn.        09.29.89        6,665   6.665      5.5        4,070     591      573                16         7             2        JCE




-0- swPnoJrcrs

13.     8-02   Coxfullworth Ltd.                       Rchmb.       03.16.W            313      384     3.3
                                                                    M-1O-M

4 .     1-01   Parqut Spcciollst Ltd.                  Ycu          03.16.84         1,135   1,342      3.6          720     200      209     1.031      16        7              3       YCE

5       8-05   Plmstlc L Metal lbrks Ltd.              Rehab.       D4.26.M            922   1.200      3.6          650     180      179       983      16        6              1        JCE

16.     8-06   leach Vlcu Hotel                        Expan.       06.21 -64          314      253     4.2          17.5     41       37       156      16        4              1     CIBC

17.     1-07   Intl. +re1           Ltd.               Yeu          07.25.M          1,627   1.650      4.3          686     160      160       954      16        5              1       YCB

18.     I CLluxGarmtMf9.                    CO. Ltd.   Yeb~         08.14.04          110       114     4.0          110      22       22        94      16      5.5            0.5        JCI

19.     1-09   J m l c a oryeen L                      Rehab.       10.26.84         1.271   1,361      4.O          Be0     220      220       880      16        4              1       BUS
               Acctylmc Ltd.

0.      1-10   ~ o l y - r a k(JU) ~ t d .            tapm.         12.04.84           468     512      4.5          140      31       32       170      17        5              1     Clnc

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PART I11
                                                                                                      PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                                                                                 ANNEX 6.1,
                                                                                                                               ?I;AMAICS
                                                                                                      JNDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                                                                                                         LOAN 2 2 9 4 4 4


                                            .----.

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Subloan Term
                                                                                                              svkoroiec t Cost                                                                       Interest         Period
       s*-                                                                            rppli c a t i m                                  Each.              S d l o a n Aaant              Total         mate         In years
Serial Proj.                                                                          Approval Data           Est.         ~ c t c u t ate   ~ c q r r r t c d     ~ u t h . ~ c t r u l fimnctnp               ~ e p a y -        W l r o t
NO.                                                                                                           ---            ----
       YO.            wmnr of s w o j e c t                             Pwposc              h m                      JS.000           JS/USS (JS.000)              - - - ( ~ $ * ~ ) - - -By AFI        )I      mt         Graced/ AFI  CJ



                                                                                                                            500                                                                                                      CNB


        8-12          Hetlfn Corp. Ltd.                                 Neu                                                 794                                                                                                      ENS

        s-13          Usstern l y r e metreaders Ltd.                   Eapon.                                              394                                                                                                     YC6

        0-15          Parodlre Deach Resort Ltd.                        Rehab.                                          15.966                                                                                                      CNB

                      J m i c a Shot Ltd.                               Expan.                                            Sold                                                                                                       JCB

                      Groce Food Processors Ltd.                        Rehab.                                                                                                                                                      HSB

                      Excel E n r m t Co. Ltd.                          Weu                                             Uurned                                                                                                      8NS

                      nnlt noon notel                                   Rehab.                                           3,624                                                                                                       HSB

                      nelrloar furnishers Ltd.                          Expan.                                              403                                                                                                      EMB

                      Jamaica Oxygen                     Acetylene      Expm.                                            1,121                                                                                                       BUS
                      Ltd.

                      J-ica           Eltracts Ltd.                     NCY                                              3,191                                                                                                       CT8

                      Highgate food P r o b c t s                       Expon.                                           1,213                                                                                                       YCB

                      sarisfmetion SEU~PrObCts                          W e u                                            2,n o                                                                                                      YC8

                      Poinciono 8each Village                           Eapn.                                           6,731                                                                                                       WS8

                      O.A.U.        Internat ial                        Yew                                              1,796                                                                                                      one

                      J m i c a Carpet M i t t s Ltd.                   Weu                                                558                                                                                                      MS8


        a-31          Mnt'l C m t l m n t a l Gorp-Ltd.                 Ncu                                              5,927                                                                                                       EMB



                                                                                                                        2Llzz


                      GRAND TOTAL ("A"                        "8" S ~ r o j e c t t )                                 443,986

                      1...............~........I.....I.I.

                                                                                                                                                            -                                 -
=.
"1      ~ a c l u d i n gone-time 2 p r c m t loen o r i g i n u t i m tee.
                                                                                                                     -
        i n c l u d i ~grace prld.
       C ~ B C    C     ~ ~Ci u i c a~td.; IIYS                lank o f nova scotfa J u f c a ; cTB = C l t l b n k ; OM0     Oyoll Merchant Bank; EM8          Eagle Merchmt Bank; CUB         Century uatl-1   eank;
                   l n v c s t m t b Finnce Merchant Bank; JCO = Jamice C i t i z w a Bank: m8 Mutual S e e U i t v Bank; YCO                            Yati-l       C-rcial      Bmnk (JM);   U L = Uwkers savings a Loan eurk.
        ( ) ~ x t m d r dGrace Period.
       E m                            ~nr+icatim.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PART I11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANNEX 6 . 2




                                                                                                 MAlIQ1L DEW.LWWl1 #AUK 01 JLIUICA LIMIIID

                                                                                                                                           t s p o r t ~
                                                                                                 I r r r r m ~ mIn                     P r o b c t l m 11)
       srb-
Srrlml p a ) .
  Do.    lo.            D n of I ~ o J . c t                  Prlrr1p.l p r ~ t ( . )     --------                                                                                                 Parlor-
                                                                                                         ~s.000  ..-..-....


1.      1.01    J u l c s I l * a q r l p l l c Ltd.    L ~ l m l r d(Ir*nrpmr.nt)      ( 4 R . m    Ita)            I           1       2                L O H ~         1     I 0    -      14       Y,       l O l M   04IM      81-
                                                        P u k l w l l a t r r l a l     1.925

2.      A.02    1.krtm Corp. Ltd


1.       A-04   llrtel 10s Co. L l d                    llet*I Cans                     10,100                       I l o h r r  160x1 10.060          l l o h r r    n l l   n l l   18     60       Y        01/11      11/84      CIS

4.       A - M  Carlt&m ?rod. ltd.                      t d l b l a O l l r end la18    144.114                      n1ph.r       MI1                         rll     nll      n l l   60.    60*      Y        m i a s    1 2 m      mm

S.       A-06   Dalrv I r d g t r l a * (YO Ltd.        Ckrr.       L #utter            (6.846 tam)                  IICrr Ill                              lw          34     Y       SO*    31       V        w t a 7    11IBI    ClBC
                                                                                        91.410

6.       A-07   V r o l u t C a ~ ~ u l t n tLtd.
                                               .        rlamllc 1 1 1 L~                (7,140.000       It01                                                                                                                                  I
                                                        r r l n l d 1ags                11,011                       I l o h r r  2.R1                      5l.r        61     67      20     21       @l       0 4 l M    l21M   JCIltlm      h,




a.       A-W    8utl.rklmt      ~td.                    mlacult*                        26.400                       Nlghrr        to ox^ 26,400        Itlohrr         51      41     12     11       Y        m j a r    WIM        nus

9.       1-80   Clmeretta Ca. a1 IILld.                 C l p ~ r * l t t a             10,000 b                     Nlohrr       11.42?                I l s h t r    nll     n l l   10     12       Y         06/87     1 / 1 7    IUS

lo.      A-13    81-       81v 0.r. Co. Lad.          '  l a u l s m                    51.000                        l i o h r r lIOOl)58.WO            Ilghcr        266     lM       16    24       Y          l 2 l M  011W )rS#lrCI

11.      1-11 CI-1 lot.^ h v . ~ t d .                   IWIU                            n.sw
                                                                                                                      Mlohrr      IlOOX) TI.509          I l g h r r   150     4W       l a   44       U          81/88    OllW     tm      w
12.      A- 16   S n g a t (1Ilt1 Lld.                   Ilv.mtock        Irwh          lu.110                        nlohrr      n l l                       nlI        14      16     22    44       U         OIIW       m!vo       ~n




 14.     8-01    r a r g r b Ipclall.1         Ltd.      Yoodn Ilwr                                                      1-r      1581) 2.360             I l ~ h r r     18    150     10     n        C I       10184     10184      YCS
                                                          111.m

 1s.     1.B     P I m ~ l l c8 k l m l York* Ltd.       C a h w t syrt-                 2.179                           1w.r     1.400                      Iolr          4       I 1T                 V         WIBI      w i n       JCI

 1 -     8       Iemh VI*r Dotal                         lwrlu                           2.850                           Loutr    2.T-                      L w t r       ID      10    10              ..A.      1 V u     m/M       Cl#C

17.      8-07    Inll. m r - 1 Lld.                      S.rmt*                          snm                          I l p h t r (1001) 1.TVO            Il1gh.r       IM     210      40              @I        01111     m/ms        YCI

1.       # a     CI1-rn    bnmt 111s.                    L.dler E a r m t s              1.440       C-          momtructurd      410                                     11            101    .        c/        0 3 1 ~      -           JCI
                 Cb. Lld.

                                                                                                                                                            REPoRr

                                                                                                                         -%T                              PROJECT



       a&-                                                                                                                                                                              Incramma In
5-rlal pro).                                                                                                                                                                            am. .I 4-
lo.    lo.               r.r      O( h b p l o j u t                                                                                                                                 Capctcd A c t u l


         I - O I    J m l r m Oanem I                              D a m n I 11trogrn                0.122                             I l e h r r  n l l                  n lI        nll       n l l       10       -          u          I t I I S  -          @US
                    L r * t v l m Ltd.                             Cmaaa
        1-10        Pol*-r.L (m) Ltd.                              Plaatlr P u k a q l r r           4.V6                              Y1sh.r       n i l                  n l l          I         I        SO       -          d l       05/64      0(/U        CIIC

         I - 1 1    E u o t r d llig. Co.                          I r n l r a a Kltchrn             2,140                             ll@hrr       I.6tV                 l o r         16         50        30.      -          &/         12185      09181      CMI
                                                                   CDblnrt*
         I - I 2    k l l l n Corp. Ltd.                           C.rmta                            2.016                             I            1       2 . 0     IIphrr           1&t       150         50.      -          @I tW5                -          Ins

        9-15        YIatmrn Ivra l m t r a d r a Ltd.              Ietrmmdrd 1vr.a                    1 . m ~                            L a r      n i l                  rill.          7         7        90                   1.1.     WI85        I Z I M    hC9

        0. I r a r d l s r I a u h I w l Ltd.                      lowla                            10.1VI                               L w r r    11001) 10.197       L a v r        I10       110         41                   Y         O I I M    02181      CUl

        1-16        J m l c a    &Ltd.                             ~PO~IC.~.                         5 . m                                          (60x1 3.OW              n lI        61     nm            42                   1.1.      O?IW                   JC8

        1           Cru.      load Procas.wa          Ltd.         Iulcma. Svrqm,                   41.W                                            8.000                  n l l       n l l   nm            30       70          1.1.      4 4 I M                *SO
                                                                   Suraa, r t c .
        9.18        Iuc*l car-t            Co. Ltd.                6.-t.                             t.V60              Plant 1undD m               ll001) 2.960                        5s                   SO       -          e/         071U                   #US

        9           I a I f )(eon Yotrl                            larlu                            40,9(4                             IIghrr       (901) 56,850      l l g h r r      n l l     n l l       63                   Y         18/81      11185      US9

         1-21       I.lrl-         I u n l m h r a Ltd.            l u n l t u e                     Z.WO               r l a n t m u   d O     m   (121) 551                           25         25        32       -           e/        O?18?      111M        A

         1-22       J m l c m 0 r n m L                            0 a v w I ItItroern                1.024                            l l p h r r  (1001) t.024            n l l      nll       n l l       4>                   41        0 2 8      O218?       INS
                    Awtv1o-m Lld.                                  tmaaa
         1-24       J m l c m t a t r r t a Ltd.                   6lrq.r 011                        1.512                               L w r r    (1001) 3.112        lavr              M         8        35       27          E/        07/87      W l M       CII

         2          ~ l p k w t rfood rrobctm                      C m l u t 1-rl                     ?,W6                             Y I C r r    (1001) 7.046      llqhrr            14         Y         69       -           bl        4Al8?      1218?       ICE

         1-26       S.tlmiutlm             S m Probcta             -ta                              18.240                             1I@h.r        (1001)18.260     Y1sh.r           4W        545          44                  9         l018?      06/8?       I C I

          1-27      ~ o l n c l r # a r k VIIImer
                                      r                            1 a v l r                          2.m                              I l p h r r  Z.WU)             1l1ph.r           21         35         52      .           W         WI~?       t018?       RSB

          1-28      0.A.I.       I n t e r m t l a u l             5ervlcrID.t.       Entrv           2.421                       Cloard Doul        (1001) 1.421         mr            101          o        n       -           P/        0?187       9          D I O



          3          Imtl-l        C m t l m t m l Gorp. Ltd.      Cmirct l o u r y L lrrcka        28.000                             NIphrr        (281) 1.640      Mlgher            12         32         42      15          41        OSlW       O l l W     Ello




                 -                                                                                                      .                                                                   -                                 -
          CIBC  -   CIIC J n l c m Ltd.;          WS   - -
                                                         Idof lormScotla Irrlcm: CIB        .     C I t I M ; W O w l l k r c h m t Id;Ilu       .          I Emsir M*rchml @ant: CUI         Crnturv e a t l a u l ld : lilt@ fnre.1-t   L ilrvnc. )Ierch.#tt P d :
          Ja Jmlca C l t l l a M;I(Y h t u l Sacurltv Id;1U Imtl-l                                      C m r c l a l Id YIL      (a):             Uorker.  S.wlngs L L m Id.
         UmIdbt Inrpdlcatla.
          At t l r 4 u 4 v e J - t         -1mal.
          A c t w l Par(-@           h w bm bud a tha aaaaa.mt                   e l IIRD'm ProJrct C o p l m t l m I l s a l m .  Dm'.    .tuff   ardlor 1111' u r u g m m t . l h r clm~.lilcatlm la ma follar.:
          A/    C-         m r a t l m pralltmblv. P r o l u t     I l b I v l a whlsva rmtta o i r a t v n r c h hl*rr           Ih~I's oi 121.  cut.oii rate
          V     C u r t l y c-             q m r l t l q prm(lt&lv,     k t r l t h hlatorv 01 Inlllat dlfllcultl".            Irtn a i return r* In rh. raw* 01 hQI's cut.oif                rat..
          g/    c w m t l y c-              gall^^ at a Ira. Oabtlul rat. of ratun mbwa m1'r cut-ell rat. rlll b. uhl.rrd.
          g l   C-         . p r a t l m   bt r l w l m a w h u bm c l a d dm.latea e l rNwn arm ~ a t l v m .
          m . l n i r r t l a a p r o l l l . b l l l t ~l a not avallabl*.

                                    PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT             PART I11
                                             JAMAICA                     ANNEX 6.3
                                    INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                           LOAN 2294-Ja

  -                                DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
PISTRIBUTION BY AFT:
                                     TOTAL       AVERAGE        $ DISTRIBUTION
                          NO. OF    SUBLOAN      SUBLOAN      NO. OF       SUBLOAN
                         SUBPROJ.   &MOUNTS      AMOUNTS      SUBPROJ.     AMOUNTS
                                   (US$~OOO)    (US$'000)

BNS-Bank of Nova Scotia
MSB-Mutual Set-Bank
EMB-Eagle Merchant Bank
NCB-Nat'l Comer.Bank
CTB-Citibank
JCB--Jamaica Citizena
IFMB-1nv.fFin.Merch.Bank
CIBC-CIBC Jamaica Ltd.
CNB-Century Nat'l Bank
WSL-Workera S&L Bank
DMB-Dyoll Merchant Bank

TOTAL



PISTRIBUTION BY INDUSTRIAL SECTOR:

MANUFACTURING                 28
     OF WHICH:
     FOOD PROCESS.            10
     GARMENT                   5
AGRO-INDUSTRY                  1
TOUR1SM                        7
SERVICES                ---------
                               1


TOTAL                        37

                                                    -
                                                    p  0                                              PART II1
                                                              JBNAICA                                AmIULGA
                                                    INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                                            JOAN 2294-JM

                                                   W i e c t Costs and Financinq
                                                            (US$ Million)

                        F"nOJECT COSTS                                        FINRNCING PLRN

                      Appraisal                     APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                          ACTUAL
Component             Estimates   Actual       IBRD     NDB/AFIs and    TOTAL       IBRD     NDBIAFIs and    TOTAL
                                               -        Subborrowere                         Subborrowers

Credit Component          23.1     80.7  1/    15.0           8.1        23.1        14.7        66.0         80.7
(Subproject Financing)


Technical Assistance       0.1      0.0         0.1           0.0         0.1         0.0         0.0          0.0



  TOTAL                   23.2     80.7        15.1  2/       8.1        23.2        14.7  3/    66.0         80.7


Cementer
The cost of the credit component shown in the Staff Appraisal Report represents an estimate of aggregate cost of
subprojects yet to be identified; the actual cost of the credit component is the (estimated) aggregate cost of
subprojects actually financed. Thus, the comparison of the two cost figures is not particularly meaningful in the
case of thie project. Every U.S. dollar disbursed by IBRD was matched by a nearly six U.S.dollar  equivalent of
local resources contributed by NDB, AFIs and subborrowers to subprojects, as compared to 54 cents estimated at the
time of appraisal. This was largely because three or four of the subprojects financed were large (in the tourism
sector) and IBRD funding only represented a small portion of the costs.



1/ Estimated on the baeis of subproject data. J$ value was converted at the exchange rate of 5.5 because the bulk
   of Loan 2294-JH was disbursed during FY85-89.
2/ Theee figures do not include the capitalized front-end-fee of US$326,656.
3/ An undisbursed balance of US$326,796 was canceled on July, 1990.

                                                                ZIAT?CRAL D    m    O   m a m

                                                                       P U U C E S E Z 5

                                            Auditmd &s of 9/30(1985-1986)and am ot 3131 (1987-1991)

-------------------------------------.-------------.------------           (JS'OOO)


                 1-23                      1985         1986        1987         9 8         1919      1990     1991

-------------------------------.-------------------------------*-------------------.--*---------------

                us=
  Cash b ~ a c kaalancea                    2,718        2.820       2.120       10.627      20,4L3    40.401   57.36&

  Sharc-em= 3apa8ic8                       37.916       6 S O       L3.837       1S.891      32.159    20.781   40.629

  Actourrcs racaivabla b

  papaoc                                     2.167       5.152       7.7q1        8,602        7576    11.177   19.037

  h e f:m G0.l                               2.774       1.196       1,301       11.516        1.111   11.893   36.058

  Loaaa Cucsca=diag                        59.654      112.706     157.700     198,562      268,490    379,355 665.902

  nac ?-ad      Aaaecs                         410         569          603          757       1.536     1.136
                                             --          --                                                      2,050
                                                                     --           --           --       --
  0th.r Iws*o.n~a                                                                                                1.010




LUUIPTES AiD SFCSOLDQS'
worn     Luaurrrrs

  kccuncs Parabla b

  Aecrued Chq.8                              6          26.578      28.997       21.596        7.977    16,696  12.131

  D u a C a W        11                     33.925      56,365      71.197       85.217     110.162    152.110 167.574

  hag-Tan Dtracc Sarrwing                   19.123      23.541      19.113       32.785      62.439    121.169 238.611

  Trus Parabla                               2.999       4,152       5,226        1.611        7.033     1,119   3,bAZ

---------------------------------------*---------------------------------------------------------

         tOIU LUILINS                      60,171      0 6 6       4 5 3 3      4 1 2 4     181,311    297.544 422.471




mW LZLBKLITIZS b EPOXY                     LOb.116     1 6 9 4 6   23,379      245.95S      331.323    474.111 622.058

-.--.----n-..----------.-.n-                                                                                  I----




11 Lens-Tarr laam uqoci8cad by W and ebunallad to ltD1

21 L o c L d . monlr Lfquid amaaca and aurraoc lfdillciaa.

                                                                                                                               PART III
                                                                                                                               P-w-X 7.3-




-----------------------------*-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TOTAL GLOSS INC-                  1.116        11.413       11.106      36.061       39.175  53,766  81.961

----------*------------------------------------.-------------------------------------------------------------

OPPIRRG W r n S L S

-me---------------


   Xtuocial Coat.                                     3.337        5.594        3.620       9,163       11.131  17.752  11.162

   Salariba. Ibnbficr and Training                       I S        1.357       1.112       3.069        3,451   3.951  5,894

   Orhar Adminlmcracira Expanabs                       1.646        1.841          699       1.113       3.146   5,019   7.617

   Daprbciacion                                           99            71          17         I82          U 1    411     493




PaorIr urn TU

   Tranmhr t o rfmk rararva

  Gbnaral I a r e n a

   Spacial hmd

   ..ch.qa         Lqualiabtion Xund




1I       1981 DmCa rbol8abIIibd b7 a)B co oouforr rlCh 1986 praabncacion

21      ID8'b f i ~ o c i a p a r war c h n p d from Saptbmbbr 30 co March 11. 1917 daca f o r a i r wth.
                            l                                                                                    d r .
31      In rbepbct of lobna t r m X I 1 and CDB.
                                                                                                    C;

                                                                                                         W T I11
                                                                                                        ANNEX 8
                                                 JECT COMPLETION REPORT
                                                        JAHAICA
                                                 USTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                                   LOAN 2294-JY

                                        PROJECTED AND ACTUAL LOAN COMMITMENTS
                                                     (US$ MILLION)



             1983            1984         1985          . 1986                  1987     1988   1989   1990   1991
        Proj. Actual Proj. Actual Proj.
        ...........................        Actual Proj. Actual Proj.             Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual
                                     Calendar Year                                        Yeare Ended March 31
                                                  ------me-------------------




a/  Loane funded out of reeourcee mobilized locally.

b/ Loane funded out of external reeourcee.

1. Projection6 were made at the time of appraieal of IBRD Loan 2294-JM and preeented in Annex 3 of IBRD
    etaff appraieal report dated April 26, 1983.

2. Actual figures for 1983 through 1987 are for calendar year; those for subeequent yeare are on the
   baeie of NDBee fiecal year ending March 31.

3. Projected figuree were baeed on the official exhange rate of 1.78. Exchange rate6 ueed for convereion
   of JS value6 of NDB'e lending are: 3.00 for CY83; 4.50 for CY84; 5.50 for CY85-87 and FY88-89; 6.50
   for FY90; and 8.5 for FY91.

                                                                                                                   PART I11
                                                                                                                   ANNEX 9
                                                        PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
                                                                   JAMAICA
                                                        INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                                                LOAN 2294-JM

                                                        NATI0NAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
                                         PROJECTED AND ACTUAL INCOME STATEMENTS, 1983-1987

(J$ MILLION)                  1983                  l%!A                  1985                 1986               1987      1/
                         P r o i . A c t u a l P r o i , a c t u a l a A c t u e l P r o i . a -
IN C W                                                                                                               ( 6MOS. )


Interest Income             0.90       0.89       3.70       2.86       7.50     10.83      11.40      21.12   15.00      9.93
  of which:
  Interest-Loane            0.90       0.02       3.70       0.41       7.50      4.58      11.40      12.77   15.00      9.93
  Interest-Invent.           -         0.87        -         2.45        -        6.22        -         8.35    -          -
Connnitment Fees            0.30        -         0.30       0.28      0.40       0.66       0.40        -      0.50      3.87
Misc. Income                0.40        -         0.60       0.04      0.90       0.39       1.70       0.30    2.40      0.00    I
                                                                                                                                  .-
                                                                                                                                  03
Total Income                1.60       0.89       4.60       3.17      8.80      11.88      13.50      21.42   17.90     13.81
                                                                                                                                  1


EXPENSES
Financial Costs             0.40       0.14       2.20       0.98       5.30      3.34       8.70       5.59   12.50      3.62
Admin Exp.                  1.20       1.00       1.30       1.73       1.20      2.61       1.50       3.27    1.50      1.90
  of which:
  Personnel Exp.            0.70        -         0.80       0.54      0.60       0.87       0.70       1.36    0.70      0.70
  Depreciation              0.50        -          -         0.06        -        0.10       0.10       0.07    0.10      0.09

                                             - --     --   --


Total Expeneee
..............................................................................................................
                            1.60       1.14       3.50       2.72      6.50       5.95      10.20       8.86   14.00      5.52


..............................................................................................................
INCOME BEFORE TAXES         0.00      -0.25       1.10       0.46      2.30       5.93       3.30      12.56    3.90      8.29

INCOME TAX                   -          -
..............................................................................................................
                                                  0.50       0.02      1.00       2.98       1.50       6.72    1.80      2.58

NET INCOME                  0.00      -0.25       0.60       0.44      1.30       2.95       1.80       5.84    2.10      5.71
..............................................................................................................
1/ NDB'B fiecal year was changed from 9/30/86 to 3/31/87; hence financial statements for
   for that year are for eix months only.

                                                                                                                                                                         ANNEX 10
                                                                                                                      PROJECT COUPLETION REPORT
                                                                                                                               ;TAMAICR
                                                                                                                       INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                  2294-J&

                                                                                                                            NAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
                                                                                                              PROJECTED AND ACTUAL BALANCE SHEETS, 1983-1987

 (J$ MILLION)                                                               1983                                    u!H              l2&               u!l!L            -
                                                                                                                                                                        1987
                                                               = A c t u a l _ P r o . i . A c t u a l P r o i . A c t u a l - a c t u a l P r o i . -
ASSETS
Cash G ST Invest.                                                      6.10                       9.09            6.10    33.20    16.40   40.63    23.80     49.67  32.50    45.96
A/R G Prepaid Exp.                                                     0.10                       0.16            0.50     1.06    1.10     2.85      1.60     5.25   2.10     7.79

Current Aeeete
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                       6.20                       9.24            6.60   34.26    17.50    43.48    25.40     54.92  34.60    53.75

Loane                                                              15.30                          0.10           46.00    13.97   79.40    59.45   111.00    112.70 139.50   157.71
Due from COJ                                                             -                           -             -       0.27     -       2.77      -        1.20    -       1.30    I
Fked Aeeete (net)
..............................................................................................................
                                                                      0.10                        0.27           0.10      0.41    0.20     0.41     0.20      0.55   0.20     0.60    N
                                                                                                                                                                                       UY

TOTAL ASSETS                                                       21.60                          9.62          52.70    48.91    97.10   106.12   136.60    169.37 174.30   213.36    I
..............................................................................................................
LIABILITIES G EQUITY
A/P G Accrued Exp.                                                    0.10                        0.09           0.60     0.96     1.40     4.83     2.40     26.54   3.40    28.99
Taxee Payable                                                            -                           -           0.50     0.02     1.00     3.00     1.50      4.15   1.80     5.22
Due to GOJ                                                               -                        0.07             -     18.39      -      33.93      -       54.36    -      71.20
LT Borrowings                                                         8.80                        0.04          33.10      3.25   70.00    19.12   106.20     25.54 140.40    29.11
Other Liab.                                                              -                           -            -                                             -      -        -
                                                                                                                          2.16      -        -        -
.............................................................................................................
Total Liabilitlee
..............................................................................................................
                                                                      8.90                       0.21           34.20    24.79    72.40    60.88   110.10    110.59 145.60   134.52

Share Capital                                                      13.20                       10.05            18.40    24.32    23.40    42.70    23.40     50.67  23.40    65.17
General Reeerve                                                    -0.50                             -           0.10      -       1.30     2.54     3.10      2.50   5.30     2.54
Retained Earninge                                                        -                    -0.64               -      -0.20      -        -        -        5.61    -      11.14

                                                                                                                    --    - --- -


Shareholder's Equity
..............................................................................................................
                                                                   12.70                         9.41           18.50    24.12.   24.70    45.24    26.50    58.78   28.70    78.85

TOTAL LIAB. G EQUITY                                              21;60                          9.62           52.70    48.91    97.10   106.12   136.60    169.37 174.30   213.36
----w-------w-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                   - 31 -
                                                                                    Attachment


                           THE PLANNING INSTITUTEOFJAMAICA


ANY REPLY OR SUBSEWENT REFERENCE                                                   Telephone: 926.1480-8
T O THIS COMMUNICATION SHOULD BE
P O O R E ~ ~ TOOTHE
              E                                                                    Telex: 3529 PLANJAM JA
                      OIRECTOR GENERAL
PO. BOX W.K f f i S I O N                                                          Facsimile: (809) 926470

                                                  39-43 Barbados Avenue
                                                   Kingston 5 Jamaica W.I.
Ref. NO

      10 December 1992



      ,Yr. James Hanna
      Acting Division Chief
      Trade, Flnance & Industry Division
      Country Department 111
      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street
      h'ashington D. C, 20433

      Dear Mr. Hanna:

                               RE:    LOAN 2294 - (INWSTRIAL C8mIT WEG)
                                                                              ,:

                                        fRtlT6CT COMPLETION REPOBT

       In reference to your letter dated 17 September 1992, 1 hereby confirm that
      approval has been granted by t h e Government of Jamaica (GOJ) to Part I1 of the
       Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by t h e National Derelopment Bank o f
      Jamaica       .

       I  apologize for the delay i n responding.

       kirurs sincerely


                         A 0 4
        Ju4
      0 r Davies
      Erector General

       cc:     .Vr. Nathan Richards, National Development Bank




