LOAN NUMBER 2294 JM
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2294 JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
ALREEMENT, dated   A     ('        , 1983, between JAMAICA
(hereinafter called tke Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the National
Development Bank of Jamaica Limited (hereinafter called NDB),
a bank established by the Borrower to meet the financing require-
ments of enterprises in the industrial, agro-industrial, tourism,
mining and related services sectors; the Borrower will assist NDB
to carry out the Project, and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to NDB the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and NDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and NDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NDB pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(c) "Participating Intermediary" means any commercial bank
or financial institution in Jamaica which meets NDB's technical
and financial requirements under NDB's Statement of Policies and
Operating Criteria (hereinafter defined), and which has been
approved by NDB for the purpose of receiving an NDB Loan
(hereinafter defined);
(d) "NDB Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made
to a Participating Intermediary out of NDB's own resources
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, in accordance
with Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
under a Sub-loan Contract by a Participating Intermediary
financed out of the proceeds of an NDB Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project, and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement;
(f) "Sub-loan Contract" means a contract providing for a
Sub-loan;
(g) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Participating Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-
loan;
(h)  "Investment  Project"  means   a  specific   industrial
development project to be carried out by an Investment Enter-
prise, which complies with the requirements set forth In NDB's
Statement  of  Policies  and   Operating  Criteria  (herLinafter
defined);
(i) "Statement of Policies and Operating Criteria" means
the policies and strategies and operating criteria of NDB, as
approved by NDB's Board of Directors on October 14, 1982, as


﻿- 3 -
amended on April 21, 1983, and such term includes the regulations
in respect of such Statement of Policies and Operating Criteria;
(j) "Jamaican dollars" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k) "Parallel Market Rate of Exchange" means the arithmetic
average of the last closing selling rates of exchange of the
Jamaican dollar published by commercial banks under the parallel
market of exchange established by the Exchange Control Act of
Jamaica anLid the Parity of the Jamaica Dollar Order, 1983, with
effect from January 10, 1983, or such other rate of exchange as
shall be acceptable to the Bank; and
(1) "Official Rate of Exchange" means the selling rate of
exchange of the Jamaican dollar under the official market of
exchange provided in the Exchange Control Act of Jamaica and the
Parity of the Jamaica Dollar Order 1983, with effect from Janu-
ary 10, 1983 or such other rate of exchange as shall be accept-
able to the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million one hundred thousand dollars ($15,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by NDB: (i) on account of with-
drawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to
finance (A) 100% of the reasonable foreign expenditure for goods,
(B) 65% of the cost of locally procured goods, and (C) 30% of
expenditures for civil works required for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is
requested; (ii) on account of 100% of expenditures in respect of
consultants services and training for the carrying out of Part B
of the Project; and (iii) on account of 100% of the foreign
expenditures in respect of the goods for the carrying out of Part
C of the Project.


﻿(b) No withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan
unless (i) the Sub-loan has been approved by the Bank, or (ii)
the Sub-loan is a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(c) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $250,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
provided, however, that, the three first free-limit Sub-loans
proposed to be made out of the proceeds of the Loan shall not be
deemed a free-limit Sub-loan and shall be submitted to the Bank's
approval in accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 of this
Agreement.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures bj
an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made more
than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan the applica-
tion and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment or, in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than one
hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement;or
(iii) expenditures made by NDB for the purpose of carrying out
Part B of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment, unless the Bank shall have approved the activities to be
carried out under such Part of the Project or (iv) expenditures
iuade by NDB for the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project
in excess of the equivalent of $100,000.
(e) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section the
term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than the Bor-
rower.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the


﻿- 5 -
Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enter-
prise and an appraisal of the Investment Project approved by NDB,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceed of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
free-limit Sub-loan.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on or
before December 31, 1985.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to thirty-seven thousand six hundred fifty-six dollars
($37,656).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or cur-
rencies as the Bank shall det':rmine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.


﻿- 6 -
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per aunum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned a,t a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. NDB is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sections 2.02 and
2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities in the territory


﻿- 7 -
of the Borrower as will contribute to the economic and sound
development of the country. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A: Financing, through NDB loans, of specific Investment
Projects of industrial and related services enterprises in the
territory of the Borrower, other than bauxite or aluminum
enterprises, in furtherance of the purposes set forth in the
Statement of Policies and Operating Criteria.
Part B: Carrying out of training and technical assistance
programs for NDB and Participating Intermediaries.
Part C: Acquisition and utilization of micro-computer equip-
ment and software, and office equipment.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause NDB to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NDB
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NDB to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
NDB under a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
to be entered into between the Borrower and NDB, under the same
financial terms and conditions under which such proceeds are lent
to the Borrower, provided, however, that such proceeds shall be
repayable by NDB in Jamaican dollars at the Official Rate of
Exchange applicable at the date of each disbursement under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to prevent NDB from
incurring any exchange losses resulting from its borrowing
operations, including any losses resulting from the difference


﻿- 8 -
between the Official Rate of Exchange applicable to the repay-
ments by NDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Parallel
Rate of Exchange applicable to each Sub-loan, provided, however,
that any exchange gains previously arisen from such difference
shall be used to offset such losses.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Banak secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and       (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such


﻿- 9 -
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be required to exclude all NDB Loans
from the calculation of the reserve requirements for Participat-
ing Intermediaries specified under the Banking Act of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5,01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k).thereof:
(a) NDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that NDB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) any provision of the Statement of Policies and
Operating Criteria shall have been amended, waived or abrogated
without the Bank's concurrence therein;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NDB or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) an amendment shall have been made in the memorandum and
articles of association of NDB which would materially and
adversely affect the operations or the financial conditions of
NDB.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) tnereof:


﻿- 10 --
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and continue for a
period of thirty days notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower and NDB; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and NDB.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NDB, and is legally binding upon NDB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and NDB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and NDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date              '1/        , is hereby
specified for the purposes 8f Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated


﻿- 11 -
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston
Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the aay and year
first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1987
through   November 15, 1999                580,000
On   May 15, 2000                               600, 000
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        .18
before maturity
More than three years but                        .35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          .65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       .88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years                              1.00
before maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date
specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement
no applications or requests permitted under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the
Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date
an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.      Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -day of ___N_1983-.
FOR SECRETARY


