」


﻿LOAN NUNBER 2294 JN
R0
AGAEEMENT, dated                              1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR Fe ONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JAMAICA
LIMITED (hereinafter called NDB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million one hundred
thousand dollars ($15,100,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NDB agree
1:o undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set. forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NDB, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to NDB on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NDB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NDB shall carry out the Project described in
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, economic and investment standards and practices, and
with qualified and experienced management.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, NDB shall submit Investment
Projects to the Bank for approval or for authorization for
withdrawals to be made from the Loan Account, as provided in
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without any limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, NDB shall:
(a) Make NDB Loans to Participating Intermediaries, and
cause the Participating Intermediaries to relend the proceeds of
such NDB Loans to Investment Enterprises for the financing of
Investment Projects, all on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,
the Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
Statement of Policies and Operating Criteria, such terms and
conditions to include, inter alia, provisions for such proceeds
to be made available to, and be repayable by, the Participating
Intermediaries and the Investment Enterprises, as the case may
be, in Jamaican dollars at the Parallel Market Exchange Rate
applicable at the date of approval by NDB of each Sub-loan;
(b) (i) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, charge the
Participating Intermediaries an interest rate of at least twelve
per cent (12%) per annum on the outstanding principal amount of
the NDB Loan and a front-end fee of one per cent (1%) on the
principal amount of the NDB Loan financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and (ii) cause the Participating Intermediaries to
charge an interest rate of at least fifteen per cent (15%) per
annum on the outstanding amount of Sub-loans and a front-end fee
not exceeding two per cent (2%) on the amounts of Sub-loans; and
(c) not later than December 31 of each year, review in
consultation with the Bank and, if necessary, revise in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, the interest rates referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 2.04. (a) NDB shall,unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, cause all Sub-loans to be made on terms whereby each
Participating Intermediary shall obtain, by means of a Sub-loan
Contract with each Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the


﻿- 3 -
Borrower, the Bank, NDB and the Participating Intermediary in-
cluding the right of the Participating Intermediary to: (i)
require the Investment Enterprises to carry out and operate the
Inveotment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance  with   sound  technical,  financial  and  managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (A)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan shall be purchased at a reasonably price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; provided, however, that in the case of contracts
for goods, whenever feasible, at least three quotations must be
obtained, and (B) such goods and services shall be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank
and NDB if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and that such insurance cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity thereunder be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v)
obtain all such information as NDB or the Participating Inter-
mediary shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
any of its obligations under its contract with the Participating
Intermediary.
(b) NDB shall exercise, and shall cause each Participating
Intermediary to exercise, its rights in relation to each Invest-
ment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Bank and NDB; (ii) comply with its obligations in respect of
the NDB Loan made to it; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. NDB shall:
(a)  furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, at
regular intervals, all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, the Participating Intermediaries, the NDB
Loans, the Sub-loans, the Investment Enterprises, and the Invest-
ment Projects and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from the foregoing;
(b)  cause Participating Intermediaries to maintain records
and procedures adequate to: (i) record and monitor the progress
of the Investment Projects; (ii) identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and to disclose their
use in the Investment Projects; and (iii) reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices,
the operations and the financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise; and
(c) within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account in respect of the Sub-loans or by such later
date as the Bank shall request, prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and operation of the
Project, their cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from them, the performance by the Borrower, NDB, the Bank and
the Participating Intermediaries of their respective obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement, and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. In order to assist NDB in the carrying out of
Part B of the Project, NDB shall employ management and investment
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures  satisfactory   to  the  Bank  on  the  basis  of   the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 2.07. NDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NDB shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.08. (a) NDB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) NDB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by NDB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NDB
shall award contracts for goods required for the carrying out of
Part C of the Project to the lowest evaluated quotation out of a
minimum of three quotations from different suppliers.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NDB
Section 3.01. NDB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and investment practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. The Bank and NDB shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views with regard to the
administration, operations and financial conditions of NDB; and
NDB shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, opera-
-tions and financial condition of NDB.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, NDB shall exchange views with the
Bank prior to engaging in any lending or investment operations
other than making NDB Loans.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NDB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿-6-
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account.
(b) NDB shall retain, and cause the Participating Inter-
mediaries to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. NDB shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested;
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request; and
(d) enable the representatives of the Bank to inspect all
such accounts, financial statements and records and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿- 7. -
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NDB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisiops
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For National Development Bank
of Jamaica Limited:
11A-15 Oxford Road, Box 8309
Kingston 5, Jamaica, W.I.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement and Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement on behalf
of NDB may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of
NDB or such other person or persons as NDB shall designate in
writing, and NDB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin Amercian and the Caribbean
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF JAMAICA LIMITED
By
?      Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of         198_
FOR SECRETARY


