Document of                   FILE copy
The World BankLE                                           y
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2462-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
February 13, 1979
l  This document h  a redrieted dsrlbutien and my he _md by recipients only In the performance of
their odlcial duties. Its eotents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - Lib. $1.00
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar, with par
value equal to that of the US dollar. Apart from the Liberian
dollar, the US dollar is a legal tender in Liberia.
GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA - FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -   African Development Bmnk
CDC    -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
FRG    -   Federal Republic of Germany
MCIT   -   Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transport
MPW    -   Ministry of Public Works
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA - FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Liberia
Amount:           US$10.7 million equivalent
Terms:            To be amortized over 20 years including 5 years' grace at
7 percent interest.
Project           The project aims at:  (a) assisting the Liberian Government
Description:    in building and improving feeder roads necessary to achieve
its agricultural and rural development goals and; (b) estab-
lishing the institutions and training staff for planning,
development and maintenance of feeder roads with the close
cooperation of government agencies and full participation of
local communities. The project would comprise a four-year
program of construction, improvement and subsequent main-
tenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads and the mainte-
nance of an additional 200 miles of existing feeder roads;
training of local staff in feeder road planning, construc-
tion and maintenance; studies for a follow-up feeder roads
program; technical assistance for developing the domestic
contracting industry and for strengthening transport planning
and coordination. There are no special risks; however
the development of MPW's capacity to execute the project
will have to be closely monitored through frequent super-
vision in early stages.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
…------US$'000 …
Local   Foreign   Total
Force Account Construction,
Improvement and Maintenance                       2,025     4,586    6,611
Civil Works by Domestic Contractors                1,482     2,319    3,801
Technical Assistance for Feeder
Roads Program and Consulting Services
for follow-up Study                                 369       791    1,160
Technical Assistance for
Transport Planning                                  110       470       580
Training and Foreign Scholarships                    120         50      170
Baseline Cost                                      4,106     8,216   12,322
Contingencies
Physical                                           499        922    1,421
Price                                            1,017     1,581    2,598
Total Project Cost                                 5,622    10,719   162341
Financing Plan:
------US$ millions-----
Local   Foreign   Total
Bank                               -       10.7    10.7
Government                        5.6        -       5.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
…_____------------…US$ millions…--------------
Bank FY   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983  1984
Annual                   0.1    2.3    2.9    2.0    2.2   1.2
Cumulative               0.1    2.4    5.3    7.3    9.5  10.7
Rate of Return:      17 percent
Appraisal Report: No. 2236a-LBR, dated February 9, 1979
Map:    IBRD 13971



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$10.7 million to the Republic of Liberia to help
finance a feeder roads project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Liberia in March 1973.  Its report
"Liberia: Growth with Development - A Basic Economic Report" (No. 426a-LBR
dated March 1, 1975) was distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic
report on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Liberia" (No.
1642a-LBR) dated February 28, 1978 has also been distributed to the Executive
Directors.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are
the main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest
single activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one third of
gross domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages be-
tween the enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits
of economic growth have been unevenly distributed.
4.        Another dimension of structural imbalance is the disparity between
traditional agriculture and the (monetized) modern sector. Traditional agri-
culture has minimal inter-action with the rest of the economy; however, it
supports the majority of the population - as much as 60 percent - who live at
or near subsistence level. With a population of about 1.7 million, average
per capita GNP in 1977 was US$430. While the enclave sector yields a per
capita GNP of about US$2,500 compared to US$550 for the rest of the monetized
economy, the great majority of the population who live in the traditional non-
monetized sector have a per capita income of about US$100 per annum. To help
redress these imbalances the Government is trying to increase its earnings
from the concessions and use the resources to diversify the economy with
increased participation by Liberians.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for Water Supply
Project dated November 17, 1978 (Report No. P-2415-LBR).



-2-
Development Plan
5.        The Government has prepared a Four-Year Development Plan covering
the period July 1, 1976 to June 30, 1980. In preparing the Plan the Govern-
ment was assisted by a planning team financed jointly by the Bank, the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID) and the Government (Reference: President's
Memorandum to the Executive Directors, No. R74-61 dated March 25, 1974). The
Plan identifies the basic, long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic
development as: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion of sustain-
able socio-economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater involvement
of Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable distribution of the
benefits of economic growth. The average annual growth of real GDP during the
Plan period was envisaged at around 6.8 percent. However, because of delays
in the implementation of expected investments in iron ore mining and some
slackening in demand for the country's main exports, a Bank economic mission
estimated that real growth during the four-year period is unlikely to exceed
3-4 percent. Total development expenditure was projected at US$415 million,
of which US$251 million would be financed from foreign sources and US$164
million domestically. Firm commitments accounted at the start of the Plan for
almost 60 percent of the expected foreign financing. However, the Plan is
currently being revised to take account of developments during the first two
years. On the basis of preliminary analysis it is estimated that the cost of
the public investment program will increase substantially, largely to reflect
increased costs but also the inclusion of additional projects. Actual de-
velopment expenditures over the first two years of the Plan are estimated at
about US$200 million. Given the financial, manpower and institutional
constraints it is likely that the implementation of a number of the projects,
as revised, will be delayed beyond the Plan period.
6.        The Development Plan attaches highest priority to the development
of agriculture and basic infrastructure. The objective is to diversify and
modernize agricultural production, increase productivity, improve associated
rural economic activities such as marketing and processing, and provide
social and physical infrastructure to promote income distribution and improve
the quality of life in the rural as well as urban areas. The Government has
already embarked on two important agricultural development projects in the
Bong and Lofa counties which are being assisted by the Bank Group. Other
projects in forestry and rubber are just getting under way which will lead
to greater participation of Liberians in the development of the country's
principal agricultural resources. At the same time the Government plans to
expand water supply and electric power utilities in both the urban and rural
areas and to improve the road network, the inadequacy of which presently
constitutes a constraint to growth. However, the shortage of adequately
trained manpower at all levels is likely to prove a major constraint to the
Government's efforts to develop and diversify the economy. The Government is
keenly aware of this and has adopted a number of policy measures, supported
by the three Bank Group financed education projects, to tackle the problem.
However, by their very nature, these policies are likely to bear fruit only



in the long term; over the short and medium terms, the Government will have
to rely heavily on foreign technical assistance.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        During 1973-75 Liberia, like most other developing countries, was
hit by higher import prices and international inflation. While strong world
demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore, brought large gains in export
prices in 1974, the 1975 recession in the industrialized countries signifi-
cantly reduced the demand for the country's most important export commodi-
ties -- iron ore, rubber and timber. With growth performance continuing to be
largely a function of enclave activities, growth of real GDP -- which averaged
about 6.3 percent a year in the 1967-70 period has slowed down significantly
and is estimated to be about 1.0 percent in 1977.
8.        Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management and public
sector resources have not come under undue pressure during the past decade.
A satisfactory growth in government revenues averaging about 13.5 percent per
year between 1970-1975 enabled the Government to finance increasing expendi-
tures. Recurrent expenditures during this period grew by about 10 percent
while development expenditures increased nearly fourfold. However, public
sector finances have recently come under increased pressure which is likely
to continue over the medium term mainly because of an anticipated acceleration
in the rate of growth of government expenditures coupled with a more moderate
rate of growth in revenues. The rate of growth of government revenues is
likely to be moderate in view of the anticipated lower GDP growth rate as well
as the continued slack in world demand for iron ore. There may be scope for
an increased revenue effort on the part of Government as well as improvements
in the efficiency and pricing policies of the public corporations so as to
ease the pressure on central government finances. In this context, Government
has recently enacted a new Revenue and Finance Law and is also negotiating
with the iron ore companies regarding its share in profits and future dividend
distribution policies.
Balance of Payments
9.        During the 1964-72 period, merchandise exports grew by 10 percent
and imports by about 6 percent annually in current prices. Thereafter, from
1972-74, mostly reflecting accelerated international inflation, imports rose
by 29 percent annually, exceeding the 22 percent annual export growth. Oil
imports increased from US$12 million in 1972 to US$56 million in 1974. From
1975 to 1977 the decline in the quantity of exports has been partly offset by
favorable movement in the terms of trade but the trade surplus nevertheless
declined from US$110 million in 1974 to US$61 million in 1976, while the
current account deficit reflecting the substantial remittances of capital
and other factor income from enclave operations recorded about US$93 million
in 1976 as compared with US$30 million in 1974. The rising current account
deficits have been financed mostly by private capital transactions.



-4-
Creditworthiness
10.       Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was esti-
mated at about US$201 million as of December 1976. Debt service payments as
a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services were estimated at
4.3 percent in 1976 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7 percent for 1974 and 1972
respectively. Debt service payments as a percentage of government revenues
have also declined from 24.3 percent in 1972 and 21.1 percent in 1974 to 13.4
percent in 1976. Based on the existing debt, both ratios are projected to
increase gradually in the next few years as export earnings are expected to
level off and the public revenues grow more moderately. The Bank Group share
of the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 18 percent.
Liberia's debt service ratio through the 1980s is expected to remain rela-
tively modest (below 10 percent) unless there is an unexpected deterioration
in external conditions. In this context, it should be noted that Liberia's
exports are highly concentrated in a few commodities with unstable world
market prices. Given the country's satisfactory economic performance and its
modest debt service ratio, Liberia should be regarded as creditworthy for a
significant amount of Bank lending, with some assistance from IDA.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA 1/
11.       The Bank has made 17 loans (including one Third Window loan) for
projects in Liberia totalling US$108 million; there have been 7 IDA credits
totalling US$36 million and one technical assistance grant of US$200,000
for development planning. IFC has made two equity investments totalling
US$550,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for Development and
Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has been for roads, agriculture,
rural development, power, education, DFC and ports. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiatives in developing their own resources for the benefit
of their own people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to broader
sharing of the fruits of economic progress; (c) to help the Government in
broadening the economic base and in overcoming infrastructural constraints to
growth; and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing development resources
from other external agencies. In furthering these objectives particular
attention is being paid to the need to expand the supply of trained manpower
so as to relieve this potential constraint to development.
13.       In line with the priorities established in the Government's Four-
Year Development Plan, the Bank plans to give increasing emphasis in its
lending program over the next few years to agricultural and rural develop-
ment. The Bank Group is co-financing with USAID two agricultural projects
currently under implementation in Bong and Lofa Counties. These projects are
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for Water Supply
Project dated November 17, 1978 (Report No. P-2415-LBR).



-5-
designed to assist subsistence peasant farmers to diversify their production
base and to increase their productivity and income through the provision of an
integrated package of support services and infrastructures. The rubber
project, which is being implemented with Bank Group and CDC financing, would
lead to expanded exports, increased productivity and incomes for small and
medium size farmers, strengthen credit and extension service and promote
greater Liberian participation in the development of this subsector. A
forestry project, recently approved by the Executive Directors, would
strengthen the Government's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation
program and help Liberia to better manage and exploit its forestry resources.
Further Bank Group assistance to the sector being considered could include a
possible tree crop project, which would support the government's economic
diversification strategy, and a rural development project which would finance
increased agricultural production and social infrastructure in selected
low income rural areas and strengthen the local capability for planning and
implementation.
14.       In infrastructure, a water supply project was approved in December
1978, which is designed to help rehabilitate and expand the tMonrovia water
supply system, extend water distribution to lower income groups in the metro-
politan area, and strengthen the management, staffing, and finances of the
Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation. A fourth highway project, which includes
improvement of priority sectors of selected primary roads, and road mainte-
nance, was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The proposed
feeder road project is designed to open up the agricultural hinterland of
Liberia in support of the on-going and proposed agricultural and rural de-
velopment programs. In the power sector, a fourth power project was approved
in June 1978 which would expand the Liberia Electricity Corporation's thermal
power generating facilities to meet demand until a new hydro-electric gener-
ating facility has been constructed and made operational around 1985. The
project also includes management and training assistance to LEC and service
connections to about 5,000 urban poor households in Monrovia. In the social
sector, three education projects have been financed by the Bank Group. The
first two projects aimed at improving secondary education, education planning
and management, as well as extending the educational system to rural areas
through the provision of secondary schools and 100 village community schools.
The third project emphasizes vocational and technical training. The Bank
plans shortly to undertake a study of the manpower needs of the economy and
ways in which to augment the supply of trained manpower, as the basis for a
fourth education project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE AND TRANSPORT SECTORS
Agriculture Sector
15.       Agriculture is the second largest productive sector in the economy
and provides one-quarter of gross domestic product. Agricultural output in
1976 totalled US$224 million of which US$94 million originated in the monetized



- 6 -
sector including rubber (US$44 million), forestry (US$35 million), coffee,
cocoa and palm products and US$130 million in the subsistence sector. About
54 percent of the total population of Liberia (about 150,000 households) work
in agriculture. With 14 persons per square kilometer, average population
density is low, ranging from 5 to 20 in the various counties.
16.       Liberian agriculture is characterized by small, traditional farms
that comprise more than 90 percent of total agricultural holdings. The
traditional sector is largely outside the monetized economy, located in areas
with minimal infrastructure and composed of farms where less than 5 acres are
cultivated each year, producing mostly subsistence crops such as rice and
cassava and some cash crops such as coffee, cocoa and sugar cane. There is
little or no adoption of modern innovation. Alongside the traditional agri-
culture there are large foreign-owned plantations, producing exclusively for
export (rubber, timber), which are characterized by use of trained managerial
and technical staff and extensive capital outlay. Also in recent years
Liberian-owned commercial farms have gained importance, producing mainly
rubber but gradually expanding into other tree crops.
17.       The government's objectives for agriculture aim at diversifying and
modernizing agricultural production. Based on general ecological conditions,
factor endowments and market prospects, agriculture has greater potential for
efficient diversification of the economy than any other productive sector and
could provide a continuing source of the country's growth and development
to supplement earnings from iron-ore which may in the years ahead gradually
decline. Within this framework the Government has adopted two basic strate-
gies: development of smallholder agriculture and development of industrial
tree crop plantations.
18.       Under the Four-Year Development Plan integrated rural development
projects are envisaged as a main vehicle for improving productivity, income
and living conditions of the small traditional farmers by providing a range
of farm support services and infrastructural improvements. Two such projects
are being implemented in Lofa and Bong Counties, financed jointly by IDA and
USAID (under Credit 577-LBR, Lofa County Agricultural Development Project and
Credit 700-LBR, Bong County Agricultural Development Project respectively).
These projects are assisting about 17,000 subsistence farmers in the two
Counties to increase and diversify production of upland and swamp rice, coffee
and cocoa by providing credit, inputs, extension services and infrastructures.
Another integrated smallholder project is being prepared for Nimba County with
financial assistance from Germany. Further smallholder projects are being
identified for other counties for possible Bank assistance. Alongside the
integrated smallholder projects, the government is implementing a number of
special projects which are geared to increase smallholder production, espe-
cially upland rice, to help reduce the country's import of rice.
19.       At the same time the Government seeks to establish as part of its
economic diversification strategy large-scale plantations, particularly for
tree crops (oil palm, coconut, coffee, cocoa, etc.), which would be operated by
special commodity corporations owned by the Government and, where appropriate,



-7-
with smallholder participation. The Four Year Development Plan envisages
implementation of the first phase tree crop plantation program consisting of
5,000 ha of oil palm, 8,000 ha of coconut, 4,000 ha of coffee and 6,000 ha
of cocoa. One such project is being implemented in Sino County with EEC
financing. The Bank and the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) are
also considering financial assistance to help implement a similar project in
Maryland County.
Transport Sector
20.       The attached map (IBRD 13971) shows a transport network both
limited and concentrated, leaving large parts of Liberia unserved.   Liberia's
transport system consists of about 4,900 miles of roads, 300 miles of railways,
four seaports and 14 airfields served by scheduled domestic flights. The
system largely reflects the enclave-based economy for which it has been
developed: the transport demand is mainly based on iron ore and timber,
followed by other agricultural products, fuel and imported goods. Roads are
the predominant mode of transport for both passengers and non-enclave goods.
The railways are owned and operated by three mining concessions and are used
almost exclusively for iron-ore transport, although one line carries some
rubber, logs and general cargo. All four seaports have adequate capacity but
planned mining and forestry developments will necessitate expansion of
facilities.
Road Network
21.       Liberia's public road network (about 3,400 miles of public roads and
1,400 miles of private roads) falls short of the country's needs both in
coverage and quality. There are only 230 miles of asphalt roads half of which
are in the vicinity of Monrovia and other townships. Another 1,769 miles are
classified as all-weather, but passage over many of these roads is uncertain
in wet weather. The remaining 1,432 miles (42 percent) of the public road
system consists of dry-weather roads and tracks. There are, in addition,
1,444 miles of private roads built and maintained by rubber and timber conces-
sionaires. Some of those roads are available for public use.
22.       Inadequacy and low quality of secondary and feeder roads, of which
there are some 3,600 miles, constitute an important constraint to Government's
push for rural development. Most of the feeder roads were built by forestry
and rubber concessionaires as short-term, low-standard haul roads and many are
merely earth tracks without sufficient drainage. The situation is aggravated
by the absence of maintenance both by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and
the local communities.
Traffic on the Feeder Roads Network
23.       Traffic on the feeder roads comprises (a) agricultural produce
destined for local markets and county centers, (b) agricultural inputs and
consumer goods and (c) passengers. There is a large variation in the traffic



- 8 -
volumes on individual feeder roads depending on population density, level of
economic activity and road condition. Detailed traffic counts covering about 1,200
miles of feeder roads, carried out by M4PW's Planning Division in 1977-78,
indicated traffic varying from 5 to 115 vehicles per day (vpd) with over 50
percent of the roads carrying more than 20 vpd. The typical vehicles used on
feeder roads are 3-5 ton pay-load light trucks, pick-ups and mini-buses.
Traffic is highly seasonal, being over twice as much during the harvest period
as the off-season.
Road Administration
24.       Although MPW has responsibility for all public roads in Liberia,
it has only recently started to give attention to the feeder road network. To
fill the vacuum, various ministries and governmental agencies have indepen-
dently planned and executed their own feeder roads programs. The proposed
project would improve MPW's capacity and control over the feeder roads network
by establishing a Feeder Roads Division within MPW's Construction Bureau,
while the existing Interministerial Study Team involving all ministries and
agencies concerned with feeder roads would continue to plan feeder roads
development.
25.       MPW has a payroll of over 4,000 employees including some 50 profes-
sional engineers and 12 architects. Given its increasing workload, the Min-
istry requires additional staff both at the professional and sub-professional
levels. Recently, efforts have been made to fill the gap at the professional
level in the short-term by direct recruitment of a number of foreign engineers,
and in the long-term by training Liberians, and this has been assisted by
on-going Bank-financed highway projects. With additional work envisaged for
planned projects and the expansion of its road maintenance efforts, MPW's need
for qualified foremen, mechanics and equipment operators is also increasing.
MPW is tackling this problem through the provision of scholarships for over
50 technicians each year for basic training conducted at the Camp Mechlin Road
Maintenance Training School, as well as on-the-job training by consultants and
contractors engaged by MPW. The proposed project would include further train-
ing assistance both at the professional and sub-professional levels.
Domestic Contracting Industry
26.       While major road contracts, which are mostly foreign-financed, are
executed by foreign contractors, there are several domestic contractors who
have been engaged in minor road works, such as drainage works and construction
of feeder roads. Two of them have sizeable equipment fleets and have built
secondary roads under USAID financing. A study of the domestic construction
industry carried out under the Second Highway Project concluded that, although
some of the contractors have a fair engineering competence, they generally
lack proper work planning and financial control as well as adequate funds to
operate efficiently. Government's policy is to develop the domestic contract-
ing industry to promote its greater participation in the country's road



- 9 -
construction programs. To this end, the Government is considering a program
which would strengthen the domestic contracting industry through various
measures including an orderly dissemination of information on the government's
road construction plan and the prequalification standards, possible financial
assistance for purchase of equipment, and provision of direct technical assis-
tance to train and assist domestic contractors with work planning, job cost
estimation, bid preparation, etc. The proposed project would include tech-
nical assistance to help initiate such a program (see para. 38 below).
Road Transport Industry
27.       Government policy encourages the free development of the road trans-
port industry. Existing regulations govern only vehicle licensing, regis-
tration and inspection; tariffs for intra-city taxi services; and vehicle
dimensions and axle-load limits. "For hire" trucking and other passenger
transport are free from regulations governing routes, tariffs or entry into
the industry. The situation is generally satisfactory with adequate competi-
tion among carriers.
Transport Sector Management and Investments
28.       Several ministries and Government agencies are involved in transport
planning: the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for highways, the National Port
Authority for ports, and  the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transporta-
tion (MCIT) for civil aviation. Railway investments are planned by the mining
concessions. The Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs is responsible for
integrating transport plans with those of other sectors of the economy. This
set-up does not provide adequate overall coordination of transport invest-
ments with planned investment in other sectors of the economy. MCIT had been
expected to perform this function, but it does not have adequate staff and
will require technical assistance to establish a Bureau of Transportation to
do this task. Under a UNDP-financed project, of which the Bank is the execut-
ing agency, a consultant has been engaged to analyze the problem and recommend
the legislative, organizational and manpower requirements to strengthen the
Bureau of Transportation. The consultant's recommendations will become avail-
able by June 1979. The necessary follow-up technical assistance to implement
the recommendations of the consultant study would be provided under the pro-
posed project (see para. 38 below).
29.       The Government's objectives in the transport sector, as presented
in the 1976-80 Development Plan, are: (a) to continue improving road main-
tenance, (b) to continue upgrading key primary roads and expanding the
secondary road system, (c) to provide feeder roads to support increased
agricultural development efforts, (d) to increase port capacity in Monrovia
and Greenville, and (e) to complete modernizing the Spriggs Payne airport.
Under the Plan, total investments in the transport sector for 1976-80 amount
to about US$150 million, of which about US$138 million or 92 percent is de-
voted to improvement of the neglected road network. While about 80 percent
of road construction investment under the Plan is earmarked for primary



- 10 -
roads, the Plan reflects the priority needs of the country where even the
primary road system is far from being established.   Road construction has
been financed in the past largely by foreign lending with the Bank Group,
USAID, Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and African Development Bank (ADB) as
principal sources.
Past Bank Assistance
30.       So far the Bank Group has financed four road projects in Liberia,
two of which have been completed. The First Highway Project (Loan 368-LBR,
US$4.25 million, 1964), completed in 1969, financed reconstruction of two
primary roads and equipment for road maintenance.  One of the roads, the
Paynesville-Robertsfield road (28 mi), suffered rapid pavement failures
due to pervious bituminous surfacing and has needed continuous repairs. The
experience--a frequent one in the early days of bituminous road construction
in all African countries--has proved a useful lesson on the care needed in
selecting materials and in supervising the construction of such roads. The
Second Highway Project (Loan 907/Credit 395-LBR, US$5.6 million, 1973)
financed the construction of the Monrovia Bypass, additional road maintenance
equipment, technical assistance for road maintenance and preinvestment studies.
All of the project components were completed successfully at the beginning of
1978. The Third Highway Project (Loan 1156-LBR, US$27.5 million, 1975) is
scheduled for completion at the end of 1979. Under this project, the Totota-
Ganta road (83 mi), and the UN Drive in Monrovia (5.4 mi) are being recon-
structed and the Mesurado river bridge is being constructed in Monrovia. In
addition, technical assistance for highway planning, and consultant services
for preinvestment studies and assistance to equip and operate a feeder road
construction brigade to assist the Lofa County Agricultural Development
Project are being financed under the project. There has been delays on all
construction items due to bad wheather and difficulties in supplying materials.
Other project components are progressing satisfactorly. The Fourth Highway
Project (Loan 1573-LBR, US$13.8 million, 1978) will finance reconstruction and
improvement of the Paynesville-Totota (71 mi) and Paynesville-Robertsfield (28
mi) roads, extension of technical assistance for road maintenance and preinvestment
studies. A brief description of the status of the on-going highway projects
is set out at Annex II to this Report.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The proposed project was identified by the Government and the Bank
and prepared by an Interministerial Study Team established by the Government.
This study team was assisted by two short-term consultants, a highway engineer
and an agricultural economist financed by the UK Overseas Development Ministry.
The Government requested Bank assistance in financing the proposed project
which was appraised in May/June 1978. A report entitled, "Liberia: Feeder
Roads Project, Staff Appraisal Report", No. 2236a-LBR, dated February 9, 1979,
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Monrovia
on January 22-26, 1979. The Liberian negotiating team was led by Ms. Ellen
Johnson-Sirleaf, Deputy Minister of Finance.



Project Objectives
32.       The principal objective of the proposed project is to continue
assisting Government in building and improving feeder roads necessary to
achieve its rural development goals. In so doing, the proposed project
will work to establish the institutions and train staff for planning, develop-
ment and maintenance of feeder roads including closer cooperation among
Government and other agencies on feeder road matters and increased involve-
ment of local communities. Other principal objectives are to provide a base
for developing the domestic road contracting industry, and to improve overall
transport planning and coordination.
Project Description
33.       The proposed project consists of:
(a) a four-year program for the construction, improvement
and subsequent maintenance of about 700 miles of feeder
roads and the maintenance of an additional 200 miles
of existing feeder roads, to be implemented with the
the assistance of consultants;
(b) training of local staff in feeder road planning, construc-
tion and maintenance;
(c) studies for a follow-up feeder roads program;
(d) technical assistance for developing the domestic
contracting industry; and
(e) technical assistance for overall transport sector
planning and coordination.
Construction and Improvement Program
34.       The 700 miles of feeder roads to be constructed or improved under
the project were tentatively identified, after a condition inventory and
socio-economic study of some 2,200 miles, by the Inter-ministerial Study Team
assisted by short-term consultants financed by Overseas Development Ministry
(U.K.). While an annual construction and improvement program would be drawn
up on the basis of the list of roads already identified, roads not included in
the list may also be considered, if justified by agricultural development
projects. In all cases, however, the selection would be guided by two
principal criteria: minimum economic rate of return of 10 percent and
the needs of agricultural projects supported by the roads. The prevention
of long travel distances by each road brigade would also be considered.
Practically all the project roads would be located in areas of ongoing or
planned agricultural development projects.
35.       Reconstruction and improvement of about 450 miles of the project
roads would be carried out by three MPW force account brigades, one of which
would be the existing Lofa County Feeder Roads Brigade. The project would



- 12 -
create two feeder roads brigades and provide road construction and mainten-
ance equipment, spare parts, supplies, vehicles, workshops and office build-
ings. The works on these roads would consist of: (a) reshaping with or
without roadway widening; (b) regravelling selected road sections and; (c)
building, repairing and reinforcing drainage and drainage structures. The
remaining 250 miles of project roads which would require new construction, and
are thus more suitable for contracting, are expected to be undertaken mainly
by domestic contractors (see para 48).
36.       Of about 370 miles of feeder roads planned for the ongoing Lofa
County Agricultural Development Project, available funds will only enable 150
miles to be carried out by January 1980 under the Third Highway Project by the
Lofa brigade. The remaining 220 miles are included in the 700 miles program
of the project, which provides for the existing Lofa brigade's continued
operation for another four years. Retroactive financing of up to US$100,000
would be provided under the proposed project to cover the foreign expenditures
after January 31, 1979 for (a) the purchase of two dump trucks for the Lofa
County feeder roads brigade, (b) the purchase of a pick-up for the proposed
Feeder Roads Division and (c) the initial costs of the training expert who is
expected to assume duty in March/April 1979.
Maintenance Program
37.       The project provides for subsequent maintenance of the 700 miles of
feeder roads constructed or improved, and maintenance of an additional 200
miles of existing feeder roads. During the project period, the force account
brigades will carry out annual reshaping of the roads they build and other
selected roads; roads built by local contractors will be maintained by the
latter for a year after road completion and then handed over to MPW for
subsequent maintenance. The Government has agreed that routine maintenance on
the project roads, including clearing vegetation, filling pot-holes, clearing
ditches and clearing drainage structures will be the responsibility of local
communities under the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Local
Government and technical supervision of NPW's district engineers. During
negotiations Government (a) confirmed its agreement to the above arrangements
for maintenance during the project period, and (b) agreed to make by May 31,
1979, the Ministry of Local Government responsible for the routine maintenance
of the project roads (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
Technical Assistance
38.       Three different types of technical assistance would be provided
under the project:
(a)  In order to assist MPW in planning, implementing and
monitoring the feeder road program, a total of 108
man-months of technical experts would be provided for
supervision of feeder roads construction, monitoring
of project impact and costs, preparation of a follow-up
feeder roads program and strengthening of the Feeder
Roads Division.



- 13 -
(b) The project would provide 48 man-months of technical
assistance (two experts for two years) to strengthen the
domestic contracting industry in work planning, job-cost
estimation, bid preparation, proper site organization and
analytical accounting. A road construction expert would
be attached to MPW to formulate and implement a program
of direct technical assistance, while financial experts
would assist approved financial institutions, in accor-
dance with the terms of reference agreed during negotia-
tions, to help organize the financial affairs of the
domestic contractors.
(c) The project would also provide for technical aid for a
total of 72 man-months to assist in reorganizing and
strengthening the Bureau of Transportation of the
Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transport (MCIT)
so as to ensure that MCIT plays an effective role in
providing overall planning and coordination of transport
investments. The precise scope and terms of reference
of the technical assistance would depend on the outcome
of the consultant study currently under way with UNDP
financing which is expected to be completed by June 1979
(see para. 28 above).
Training
39.       The project would provide training for Liberian staff at all levels
including engineers, road technicians, mechanics, foremen and equipment
operators. Efficient project execution will require training or refresher
courses for about 4 road technician/foremen, 8 mechanics and 20 equipment
operators. Training for these would be conducted at the MPW training center
at Camp Mechlin. For this purpose the project provides for supplementing
the center's staff with an instructor. Personnel training will be continued
on the job by the technical assistance experts. Also, an experienced MPW
engineer would be awarded an overseas scholarship for a construction manage-
ment course.
Project Monitoring
40.       The project would include setting up a monitoring system within
MPW's Planning and Programming Division in order to evaluate on a continuing
basis the engineering, economic and social aspects of the project. Project
monitoring activities would include: measuring traffic flows on project
roads; collecting data on changes in vehicle operating cost and farmgate
prices; assessing the productivity and cost of force account brigades and
domestic contractors; and evaluating the quality of routine maintenance
carried out by local communities.



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$18.8 million including
taxes and duties. The estimated project cost net of taxes and duties is
US$16.3 million, consisting of US$10.7 million (66 percent) in foreign costs
and US$5.6 million in local costs (34 percent). Cost estimates are based on
mid-1978 price levels and include physical contingencies of about 12 percent
and price contingencies amounting to about 20 percent of total base costs. The
average man-month cost of technical assistance included in the project and
expected from foreign consultant firms is about US$5,500, plus US$1,900 for
reimbursable expenses; local consultants would cost about US$1,500 per man-
month.
42.       The proposed Bank loan of US$10.7 million, which would cover 65
percent of total project cost net of taxes and duties, would finance all
foreign costs of the project. The Government would finance the local costs of
US$5.6 million.
Project Implementation
43.       MPW will have overall responsibility for project execution except
that the implementation of the technical assistance for transport planning
will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transpor-
tation. The feeder road program under the project would be implemented over a
4 year period (FYs1980-83) by a new Feeder Roads Division of MPW. It was
agreed that this Feeder Roads Division would be created and staffed within MPW
by July 31, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
44.       The feeder roads to be constructed and improved during the first year
have been agreed with Government. Roads for subsequent years of the program
would be proposed annually by the Ministry of Agriculture on the basis of the
list of roads already identified, which would then be studied and prepared by
MPW's Planning and Programming Division. Thereafter, the proposed list would
be reviewed and approved by the Interministerial Study Team. During negotia-
tions, Government confirmed its agreement to submit to the Bank for approval
the annual road programs three months before the scheduled start of works to
be undertaken in that year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
45.       About 450 miles of the project roads, requiring mostly improvement
and rehabilitation, would be executed by the three MPW's force account bri-
gades, under the control of the Feeder Roads Division. Any necessary sur-
veying and engineering prior to construction would be carried out by crews
attached to these brigades with MPW's Engineering Division assuring quality
control through periodic site visits. In order to facilitate funding the
operating expenses of the Feeder Roads Division, it was agreed that Government
would establish a separate fund by July 31, 1979 and maintain it through
December 31, 1983, to cover all operating expenditures of the three brigades.
In addition, Government would set up a petty cash account by the same date and
through the same period for each brigade in the field to cover local procure-
ment of materials, supplies and labor by the brigades (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07).



- 15 -
46.       Contractors would be responsible for constructing the remaining
250 miles of roads under contract with MPW. The survey, design and bidding
documents for these works would be executed by local consultants. Feeder
Roads Division would supervise the work of both the local consultants and
contractors with the technical assistance provided under the project as well
as with the assistance of MPW's Engineering Division.
47.       The maintenence program would be carried out by MPW for the annual
road reshaping while the Ministry of Local Government would be responsible for
mobilizing the local communities for routine road maintenance works, with MPW
drawing up the maintenance program for them and supervising execution.
Procurement
48.       Equipment, vehicles, spare parts, materials and supplies amounting
to about US$4.1 million would be procured following international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Goods manufactured in
Liberia would be allowed a preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price on
imported goods or the prevailing duties, whichever is lower. Contracts for
equipment, materials and supplies costing less than US$60,000 may be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertized locally in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The aggregate amount of such purchases
would not exceed US$400,000. Construction of 250 miles of roads and two
workshops and two office buildings which are widely scattered would not
attract foreign contractors. Such contracts totaling US$6.0 million, would
be awarded following a competitive bidding advertised locally. Contractors
for such works would be prequalified by MPW with Bank approval, and would be
on the basis of MPW estimates. As the lack of expertise in bid preparation
could prevent domestic contractors from submitting realistic bids, local
consultants for survey, design and preparation of bidding documents and
foreign consultants for technical assistance will be employed in agreement
with and under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the govern-
ment and the Bank.
Disbursement
49.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over 5 years (FYs1979-84) as
follows:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign costs of imported equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, workshop tools and survey and office
equipment, or 80 percent of the total costs of these items
if purchased locally, up to a total of US$3,100,000;
(b) 80 percent of the total expenditures for materials
and supplies, up to a total of US$1,600,000;
(c) 62 percent of total expenditures for civil works by
local contractors, up to a total of US$2,700,000;
(d) 30 percent of the total expenditures for local consultants
for studies and training, up to a total of US$50,000;



- 16 -
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance experts and expatriate consultants, up to
a total of US$1,100,000;
(f) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for the overseas
scholarship, up to a total of US$20,000; and
(g) an unallocated amount of US$2,130,000.
Project Benefits and Risks
50.       The economic justification of the proposed project includes reduc-
tion of transport costs and produce spoilage in the command areas of the
project roads, contribution to the expansion of agricultural production,
provision of improved access to health, education and other social amenities,
and institution-building. The project will directly affect a rural population
of about 300,000 with an average per capita income at project inception of
around US$100.
51.       All the roads selected for construction and improvement are located
in areas of ongoing or planned agricultural development projects. Benefits
from the roadworks would, therefore, include the increased agricultural
production resulting from these projects, in addition to road-user savings
for normal traffic. Even if the planned agricultural development projects are
not implemented, the road construction and improvement are expected to induce
some agricultural production by improving access to existing extension, credit
and marketing facilities. The economic rate of return of the project has been
calculated without the benefits of the planned agricultural projects and is
estimated to be 17 percent. This is a conservative estimate since the
government has a strong commitment to the planned agricultural projects which
would improve the rate of return of this project.
52.       Farmers in the project's influence area and the Government would
be the major beneficiaries of the increased agricultural production to be
generated by the project. While initially most of the benefits of transport
cost reduction will accrue to commercial transport owners/operators and
parastatal agencies which transport produce, some of the cost reductions will
eventually be passed on to the local communities in the form of reductions or
slower increases in transport tariffs. Increased agricultural production will
benefit both farmers by increasing their incomes and the government by addi-
tional revenues from produce taxes. The government and parastatal agricul-
tural agencies will also return some of their benefits to farmers in the form
of improved extension services. Benefits which cannot be quantified would
include improved institutional capability in feeder road planning and execu-
tion as well as social benefits deriving from the feeder roads network.



- 17 -
Project Risks
53.       The project entails no unusual risks for this type of projects.
Most important for the project's success will be: (a) the ability of MPW
to develop the necessary administrative capacity to execute the project on
schedule; and (b) the attainment by the brigades of the productivity levels
assumed. Staff training and retention as well as the quality of technical
assistance are therefore critical. These items would be monitored closely
during project implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Liberia and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
55.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this Report.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 13, 1979



ANNEX I
- 18 -
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. [H.)                 LIBERIA                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            111.4                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       6.2                                HQST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOMH
1960  /b   1970 Lk ESTIMATE Lk       REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP 8L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 170.0       260.0    430.0            223.6      432.3       867.2
eNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     86.0       454.0    404.0             36.7       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        1.0         1.3       1.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCE[T OF TOTAL)  ..         26.2       ..             13.6       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. [M.                       9.0         12.0      15.0            18.4       42.7        50.8
PER SQ. NM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    163.0      217.0    274.0              53.6       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        37.2 /f    40.7       41.4             44.4       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                        58.8 Lf     56.0      55.3            52.7       52.8         53.5
65 YnS. AND ABOVE                  4.0 Lf      3.3       3.4              2.8        3.0         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)                               *
TOTAL                             3.3         3.3 L      3.3 LI          2.6        2.7         2.5
URZAN                               *-         8.6        *-             5.8        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.4       42.8       43.6            46.9       42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.9        23.5      20.7            20.6       12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          2.6       2.7             3.1        3.2         2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MXARIED WOHEN)    ..         ..        ..              2.5       14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITON
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPItA (1970-100)            96.6       100.0      109.7            94.2      104.3       107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   86.0       84.0       87.0            90.1       99.5       105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          35.0       36.1        ..             55.2       56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..          9.6 /      *-            17.1       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0 Lf     18.2       ..               ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXFECTNCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.5        41.0       43.5            43.7       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY ATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        137.3       ..            138.4       82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0      20              22.4       31.1        56.8
URBAN                                        100.0      64              56.3       68.5        79.0
RURAL                               ..         6.0       6              10.4       18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DTSPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        19.0      1L              )3.9       37.5        30.9
URBAN                               *        100.0      35              70.3       69.5        45.4
R;RAL                               .          9.0       6              14.2       25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         12000.0 L   11590.0   11000.0         21757.5    9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    5710.0  i  4590.0   2640.0             3473.8     2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            730.0       580.0        ..           645.4      786.5       493.9
LRBAN                               ..         ..         ..           172.9      278.4       229.6
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..           1292.6     1358.4      2947.9
ADISSIONS PER ROSPITAL BD             ..        27.7        ..            19.2       19.2        22.1
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..         ..             4.9         ..         5.2
DRBAN                               ..          *-        .              5.0         *-         5.0
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..              4.7         ,,         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               .           .,                                              2. 0
URBAN                              1.7 ,        ..        ..              ..        2.3         1.5
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..              ..         ..         2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        .               ..       28.3        64.1
ABAN                                .           ..        ..              ..         ..        67.8
RURAL                               ..          *-        ..              ..       10.3        34.1
* According to Population Growth Survey conducted in 1971, the rate of natural
increase was 2.9 percent.
** These estimates are based on Census of Population & Housing conducted in 1974.



ANNEX I
- 19-                                           Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LIBEUIA                       - MOST RECENT ESTIIATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 tb ESTIMATE  b      REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 31.0        53.0       62.0            52.1       75.8         99.8
FEMALE               18.0        35.0      44.0             37.6       67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         9.0       16.0             8.0       17.7         33.8
FEMALE                1.0         4.0       8.0              5.0       12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 12.0         8.2        3.0             7.2        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           32.0        36.0       41.0            43.2       34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         12.0        17.0        ..             22.8       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        9.0 /f      15.0        ..            20.3       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         11.0       8.1             3.9        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        77.0       132.0      156.0            40.1       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          *-         4.3        5.0             2.2       14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.8         6.0        7.0             3.9       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ASTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6         0.6         ..             1.2        1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      410.0       580.0    650.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  33.5        32.5       32.3            32.6       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             81.0        72.0        ..             73.3       54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 9.7        11.6        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.3        39.8       38.3            42.0       37.8         33.8
MALE                                56.6         54.4      52.7            54.8       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                              28.1        25.6       24.4            27.3       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0 /f      1.0        1.1             1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        61.7  k      ..            25.7       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        72.6 /k    ..              55.1       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS     ..         5.3 ik    ..               5.8        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        10.9  k      ..            14.5       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTnIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           108.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       69.0            74.1       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      137.0           124.4      143.7        319.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       91.0            59.6       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       23.0            26.8       22.9         19.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       30.0            47.6       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country In each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    kfrica South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Incom   (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /f 1962; LI Due to i3igration population growth rate is
higher than the rate of natural increase; h/ 1965; /i 1964; a City of Monrovia only; /k Popu-
lation, 1975 Bank Economic Report. Higher Income calculated as residual; includes expatriates.
September 1978



- 20 -                                                      ANNEX I
DEFINIITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                          Page   3   of   5  pages
!      'Se oa)a:eo gr_Ap averages Ear each indicaror are population-weighted geometric reans, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the vest
^C c:: 7 CDU..'C/vN each group.  leverage of countries a"ong the indicators depends on acailability of data and in rot unifor.  Due to lack of data,
a.e -ges for Capital surplus Oil Exporters and Indicators of access to water and eucreta disposal, housing.  Income distribation and poverty are
1--i         carpocegho  geometric means without to.exoclusion of extreme values.
Le..REA 'th-ovad sq. in)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - tota, urban, and rural - Population (total,
a:t      ,c,ul surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital heds
Ahv r   is_tra' - Mort recent estimate of agricultural area used cemporarily               available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
--v         rlrmaoonly for crops  pastures,  arket and kitchen gardens or to             habilitation centers.  Fospitals cre establishments permanently staffed by
eallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establizuneorts providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals. however, include health and medi-
-'.? PER  APtIA 'ISO) - C1P per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal ceters not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
caculated by name coeversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 hasis):                 sistant, nurse,  idwife, etc.) which offer in-patiet ac.oo.odation and
196   1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide.a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
CNERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumsption of coercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the a-nuer of beds.
'coal and lignite, petroleu., natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogroms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOL'SING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
PCpfiLTICI  lt-D VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total omiuictcr, mId-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
TJries populatIon (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per root - total. urban  and rural - Average n-am-
cE data anong  -ountries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Pounlation densitv                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. hok. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of C.ttl area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per so. in. agricultore land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional d.ellings with  elotricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of renal, urban. and rural dwellings reopeotively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (S-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years aod over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
vea.  papulation.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Ponulation growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compsund annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Coral and fe.ale enrollment of all aSes
growth rates of total and urban eid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of.                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
oid-yepr population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-Year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
Crude deadh rate (per rhousond) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     5econdary school - total, and female - Couputed as above; secondary edaca-
year population; ten-year arithinetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years o  approed primary instruction; pro-
and fine-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                           rides general vocational, or t            raining instructions for pupils
irons repr-d-cti-o rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in ser sorral reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of scdary) - Vocational insticutions in-
1910, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate indepeodently
Famiy planning - ac-eptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutiors.
acceptors of birth-control devices uncer as.pices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio  - urinary  and sonondarn - Tota1 students enrolled is
planning program                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
FPsily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percenrage of                         sponding levels,
earied wo=en of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Liteeate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to a11 married women in sane age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD ANTD !7TRITION                                                                     CONSUKIPTION
Index gf foodpoduction percpt-  (1970-100  - Index number of per                       Passenger cars (per thousand ponulutopn) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of a11 food commodities,                                      seating less than eight persons; eocludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supnly of calories (percent of resuiremeota) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thossand of population; excludes unlicensed
eaports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities usod in food processing, and losses in distribution,   Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since me t countries
quir-aents were estimated by FAO based on physiolegical needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   nV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generi
weights, age and sex disr-ibutions oE population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers In couo-
cest for caste at household level.                                                       tries and in pears when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita oupply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newospser circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periedical pubic-
above.  Require-ents for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording genera1 news,   It is conaidered to
ini=ur allowance of '0 groins of cotal protein per day and 20 grams                 bh  "daily" if it appears at least four c ies a weik.
of arimal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance  a r cutt  pet near - iased on the number of tickets
Thes s0t-d-tdv  urn lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including acsscens to dri--n cine.as and aobilo
IS grand  of a-i-l1 poein an  rvonage for  he  crid, p-roposed by                     oits.
FAO In the Third World Food Survey.
Pen ra0ita  rorscei  vuoply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            D2ILOONENT
dertvod fron ancials and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - fuorovcelln onive persons, including armed
Child (ages I-.) mortality rote (per thousaod) - Annual deaChs per thbua-                  forces and unemployed but escludicg hoooewives  students, etc.  DPerni-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in chis age group.                              tions in various countries are oro  ce-parable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force en percentage of total labor force.
HEALThi                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
lIfe onpeot-ncy ut birth (years) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force
reaminhg at birth; usually  ive-year averages ending Is 1960  1970,                  Industry (nercent) - Labor force In mining, construction,  asufactjrcsg and
-d 1975.                                                                                electricity, .ater and gas as per-entage of total labor force.
Infatt nortail? rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total,  ale, and
ace year of uge per trousand live birhts.                                               'e.a.e labor 'orce as percentages a  thei  res-ectine populatone-
Access to safe eatnr (percent of  opoulatior) -  otatl  urban  and rural -                These ore MO's odjusted particpation votes reflecting ...e-sa
'laur  of people (toral, urban, and rure1) with reasonable access to                     C-rut-ure of rho popolotihn. and Iott tlie trend.
cafe eater 3-pl,y (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Ecnomic dene-de-n- ratio - Ratio of population coder 15 and  5 and 00cc to
-vcootaninuted woter such as chat from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of -lP-6       s cots.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations,
-as schrban area a ohblic fountaIn or standpnst located not sore                    INCOWE DISTRIBUTION
shun 2C0 voters ftoo a house may be considered as being within tea-                  Percentage of oriosce income (both it -ash and kind) receI-ed by riccest 5
sonableaccesa of shut novae.  In rura1 areas reasonable  access would                   percen- richest 20 percent  potcsc 20 percent,  an  poorest -0 percent
.oy that the housewife or members of the hoosehold do not have to                       of households.
s-end a divpvupovloaoe part of the day in fetching the fasily's
act  croon.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET IROVPS
..cess to vv-cto diuvosal (per ent of conlatlon) - total  urban, and                  Efticated absolute ooverm   income level  1S0 per capita) -                  rrhec and varal -
-cra_ -     .ocerr -r -  e 'tta   arson, and rural) serve-d b  excret                     Absolute poverty iroos level is scat icnye level below  nhic  a su        innal
loscosal as per.entages of toeir respective populations.  Encreta                       -utrtionallv adequate diet plus  -es tIal  sr-food requirements Is -ve
os  cial oay include rhe cllnction and disp.o.1, with or without                       affrorable.
rvatentc i bor ho-n e-trera a-d  -auto-eater by water-borme uytens                  Estimaoed  -elcti-e p-verv  incsore les-I e7 vor c- olna) - arboa and rural -
of pjo privIes and  is.ilsr installations.                                  Relative povertty  ocone 'evel Is tro: iccone level lass than one-thir
o r  rsr nvciuan - Population divided by number of oracticing                ret capita personal i.n.oe of the  s-ut-r
r a s *aa_lflod crux a veicoal s-hool at university level,                   Int-mated vocuotn belowv  ovoren I-nome Ieval (percent)  - urban and rural -
-c      - on cr oars ag 0000    - Popolacion divided by vier of                  Percent of popup0at4-  urban and ri-al) uh  are  t:h-c  'bselate poor  or
-at vig -aTo and -nc e=ale gredatc ourso-, practIcal nurses, and                        'rolatie poor  wnichever Is  reta-r.
-ctyit arc S-ccja. Tats hln:cuc
o.cosont nsv53'55 and Projeoccans leparcnent



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS- LIBERIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%.1975 CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Mln.       %                                          1973 -75           1976
GNP at Market Prices             643.9     100.0                                          -1.7             13.1
Gross Domestic Investment        207.0      32.1                                          37.5            - 0.9
Gross National Saving            129.6      20.1                                          -9.0             23.8
Current Account Balance         -45.5        7.1
Exports of Goods, NFS            467.1      72.5                                         -17.0             11.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           435.2       67.6                                           3.1             13.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITI IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force-                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ XLn.      S                 '°°°        %                    US __,
Agriculture                      210.4    30.4               458.5       70.5                458.9         43.2
Industry 2/                      270.0    39.1                29.0        4.5               9310.3        876.0
Services                         210.4    30.5                 70.6      10.8                3005.7       282.8
UInallocated                                                  91.9       14.2
Total/Average                69.8t  100.0                           100.                   6          100.0
GOVERlENT FINANCE
General Governmant                             Central Government
(   _ Mln.)    of GD 0! aP               (US$ Mn.)          % of GDP
197          197        196-7                 i976         197T         1971
Current Receipts                     ..            ..          ..                  149.8        21.7          18.9
Current Expenditure                                                                 87.6        12.7          12.9
Current Surplus                      ..            ..         ..                     6.i
Capital Expenditures                 ..            ..          ..                   90.6        13.1           6.6
External Assistance (net)            ..           ..           ..                   31.6         4.6           0.5
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                               1972        1973         1974        1975        1976
TMTllionUS$ outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money
Bank credit to Public Sector                          17.5          8.2         4.0          2.2          0.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         47.4         54.2        71.8         76.8         81.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP
General Price Index (1963 - 100) 3/                   131.0       156.6       187.2         212.5       225.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Geeneral Price Index                                    3.9        19.5        19.5         13.5          6.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                            ..        -53.1       -51.2        -45.0       -59.1
Bank credit to Private Sector                           ..         14.3        32.5          7.0          6.5
NOTE:t All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated2' consists
mainly of unemployed iorkers seeking their first job.
2/ Over 80% is accounted for by iron ore.
3t Consumer Price Index (Sept, Nov. 1964=100)
not available
hot applicable



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PADNTS AND CAPITAL FWWO
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974     1975      1976                                                US $ Min    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         407.2    403.7    467.1                Iron ore                           294.8    70.7
Imports of Goods, NFS        -318.1   -362.7   -435.2                Rubber                              54.7    13.1
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    :1        417.      3179               Diamonds                            21.6      5.2
Logs or Lumber                      20.9     5.0
Interest Payments (net)        -4.9     -4.9      -5.9               Coffee                               5.0      1.2
Workers' Remittances          -22.0    -24.5    -25.0                Palm Products                         4.8     1.2
Other Factor Piyments (net)  -84.8   -122.9    -79.4                 Cocoa                                4.3      1.0
Net Transfers                  24.8      30.6     32.9                All other commodities               11.1     2.6
Balance on Current Account      2.2    -87.7 /    _.                       Total                        417.2   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      25.1     45.0      57.3              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing              -5.3      19.4     31.6
Disbursements                9.1     35.1      45.8                                                         US $ Mln
Amortization               _14.4    -15.8    -14.2
Subtotal                    19.8     64.4      88.9                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             201.2'
Capital Grants                  ..        ..       ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             5.2       3.8    -25.7                Total outstanding & Disbursed             201.T
Other items n.e.i             -27.2     12-8    -144                                            1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        -         0.3      3.3              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976-
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)      13.6      13.9     17.2                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             4.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials    56.4      48.3     59.5                Total outstanding & Disbursed             4.3
Imports
of which: Petroleum        53.2      44.4     53.1
Exports
of which: Petroleum         .         .                   IBRD/IDA LENDING, CDEPTW ER 30. 1q78) (MILLION US$):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed               41.2         12.2
Thr44roh  -  1971              Since  -  1971                   Undisbursed                           59.1         23.8
US P 1.00 ' S $        11S00 , 1S$                              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        100.3         36.0
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
(Date)
November 15, 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Credit                                                        less can7ullation
Number    Year         Borrower            Purpose        Bank      IDA- Undisbursed
Eight Loans and one Credit fully disbursed                26.67      2.6
305      1972      Republic of Lib.    Education                    7.2      0.3
306      1972      Republic of Lib.    Agriculture                  1.2      0.0 /3
1055      1974      Liberian Bank for   Development
Development and      Finance
Investment                            4.0                 0.2
577      1975      Republic of Lib.    Agriculture                 6.0       4.1
700      1977      Republic of Lib.    Agriculture                  7.0      6.5
786      1978      Republic of Lib.    Rubber
Development                6.0      6.0
839      1978      Republic of Lib.    Forestry
Development                6.0      6.0
1150      1975      Liberia Electric-
ity Corporation      Power             1.8                0.8
1156      1975      Republic of Lib.    Roads             27.5               11.7
1266-T    1976      Republic of Lib.    Education          4.0                2.3
1323      1976      Liberian Bank for   Development
Development and      Finance
Investment                            7.0                 6.1
1417      1977      Republic of Lib.    Education          6.3                5.9
1544      1978      Republic of Lib.    Rubber
Development      7.0                7.0
1573      1978      Republic of Lib.    Fourth Highway 13.8                  13.8
1600      1978      Lib. Elec. Corp.    Fourth Power   10.0                   8.0
Total                               108.07    36.0       78.7
of which has been repaid            8.43       -
Total now outstanding                99.64    36.0 /4
Amounts sold         0.41
of which repaid   0.37              0.04
Total held by Bank and IDA           99.6      36.0
Total undisbursed                     55.8     22.9      78.7
/I   Prior to exchange adjustments
/2   Balance US$36,530
/3   In addition, a US$8 million credit for Water Supply Project was approved
on December 5, 1978 but has not yet been signed.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1978)
(in US$)
Fiscal
Year       Obligor              Type of Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1966     Liberian Bank for    Development Finance
Development and       Company
Investment                                               0.250    0.250
1977     Liberian Bank for    Development Finance
Development and       Company
Investment                                               0.306    0.306
0.556    0.556
Less Sold                                              0.001    0.001
Now Held                                               0.555    0.555



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 305-LBR        First Education Project:  US$7.2 Million Credit of
May 17, 1972; Effective Date: December 18, 1972;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
After initial delays in awarding civil works contracts, project
implementation has progressed satisfactorily, and most project facilities were
in operation by the start of the school year in March 1978. All technical
assistance posts have been filled and the fellowship component has been fullly
implemented. The education, manpower, and university planning components have
been completed satisfactorily. The project Closing Date has been extended
to December 31, 1979 to allow for full disbursement of technical assistance
funds and retention period for construction. There will be a small cost
overrun that will be met by Government. Project management has been good.
Loan No. 1266T-LBR         Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third
Window Loan of June 7, 1976; Effective Date:
July 8, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980
Project implementation is about 15 months behind schedule due to
shortages of construction materials and unusually long rainy season but the
pace of implementation is now increasing. Most of project's technical assist-
ance personnel are in post and candidates for fellowships have been nominated.
Equipment lists are being prepared and furniture and vehicles are being pur-
chased. Construction of 40 of the 100 community school units is underway and
26 units were ready for the start of the school year in March 1978. Extension
of the Zorzor Rural Teacher Training Institute has been completed about five
months behind schedule in June 1978. The project is expected to be completed
about a year after the original completion date but within appraisal cost
estimates.
Loan No. 1417-LBR          Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily about six months
behind schedule. The Division of Educational Facilities has been established
and is carrying out design work on project and non-project schools. Contracts
for civil works at the VTC, AITB, and science and technology centers will be
awarded shortly, about six months behind appraisal forecasts. The technical
assistance and fellowship program for the VTC and AITB is being revised to
take account of changed circumstances since appraisal concerning the avail-
ability of technical teachers and assistance provided by other donors.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Credit No. 577-LBR        Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6
million Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date:
May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
After an initial delay in project start-up due to staffing difficul-
ties, the project is progressing satisfactorily with a good expatriate and
Liberian management team. Farmer response to the project is good. Some 425
ha of swamp rice, 300 ha upland rice, 600 ha coffee and 200 ha cocoa will be
developed this year. Appraisal targets for swamp rice and coffee would be
exceeded but a shortfall of about 1,000 ha for cocoa is expected due to lack
of suitable soils. Feeder roads, training, schistosomiasis surveillance,
construction of buildings and wells are being carried out satisfactorily.
Slow disbursements to date resulted from delays in project start-up and are
expected to accelerate from FY79. While Government funding and support for
the project has been fully satisfactory, its policy of distributing free inputs
outside the project area is still to be clarified, since the continuation of
such a policy could jeopardize the project objectives.
Credit No. 700-LBR        Agricultural Development (Bong) Project:  US$7
million Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date:
March 15, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Signing of the credit was delayed by several months due to staffing
problems. Most of key project positions have now been filled and the project
implementation has begun. Since field operations began mid-season, accom-
plishments in terms of crop development for this season will be nominal.
The project helped to establish a Bong County branch of the Agricultural and
Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) which has been recently set up by the
Government as a permanent agricultural credit institution. Project manage-
ment as well as Government funding and support for the project are good.
Loan No. 1544-LBR         Rubber Development Project:  US$7 million Loan and
Credit No. 786-LBR        US$6 million Credit, both of April 21, 1978:
Effective: October 3, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Project start up activities (e.g. staff training, nursery preparation,
acquisition of land, building plan) financed by the Government are making good
progress and the project implementation is expected to commence on schedule.
The project manager is in post and the financial controller has been appointed.
Credit No. 839-LBR       Forestry Project:  US$6 Million Credit of July 28,
1978; Not effective: Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project includes strengthening the Forestry Development Authority,
establishing of a 1,600 ha industrial plantation and technical assistance,
studies and training. Good progress has been made in project startup activi-
ties financed partly under the Project Preparation Facility.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1156-LBR         Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date: October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The construction of a major bridge and of an urban main road (5.4
mi.) in Monrovia and of a rural main road (83 mi.) is almost complete after
a minor delay due to initial bad weather and difficulties in the supply of
materials. The feasibility studies of about 85 miles of main roads and
an urban transport study in Monrovia are making good progress. A feeder road
construction unit became operational in January 1977 and is operating success-
fully in connection with the Lofa County Agricultural Development Project
(577-LBR). Technical assistance in building up Planning and Programming
Division of the Ministry of Public Works is proving fairly effective. A
discussion is currently underway with the government regarding utilization
of possible savings in the loan.
Loan No. 1573-LBR        Fourth Highway Project:  US$13.8 Million Loan
of June 2, 1978; Effective September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project includes reconstruction and improvement of the
Paynesville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield road, technical assistance
for road maintenance and pre-investment studies. Contractors for the road
construction are being pre-qualified and the negotiation is under way for
extension of the road maintenance consulting services.
Loan No. 1055-LBR         Second Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$4 Million Loan of December 3, 1974; Effective Date:
January 3, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979; and
Loan No. 1323-LBR         Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective Date:
December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Loan 1055-LBR helped LBDI meet its financial requirements through
calendar year 1976. LBDI's loan approvals during calendar 1976 surpassed the
projected level for the year. Commitments and disbursements were similarly
above targets. Disbursement of Bank funds, in particular, had been faster
than projected. The loan is fully committed and 95 percent disbursed as of
May 31, 1978. The Loan 1323-LBR, signed October 7, 1976, together with loans
from the African Development Bank and the European Investment Bank are ex-
pected to cover LBDI's foreign resource gap for the period 1977 and 1979.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Loan No. 1150-LBR          Third Power Project:  US$1.8 Million Loan of
August 1, 1975; Effective Date: October 20, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project finances technical assistance for establishing a
long-range development plan and detailed investment program as well as for
strengthening the management of the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC) and
training its staff. LEC's management continues to need external support and
the training program needs to be expanded to include practical training for
middle-level staff. The financial performance of the utility has deteriorated
and remedial measures are being taken to improve LEC's financial viability,
e.g. tariff increases, improved financial controls, in connection with the
Fourth Power Project. LEC recently engaged a foreign electric power utility
to provide a management support team to replace expatriates who have left at
the expiry of their contracts.
Loan No. 1600-LBR        Fourth Power Project:  US$10.0 Million Loan of
July 7, 1978; Effective December 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of thermal generating facilities
by 26 MW to meet demand up to 1985, power distribution to urban poor, rural
transmission studies and technical assistance for management and training.
All contracts for the Bushrod Power Plant extension have been signed and
the contractors have proceeded with their respective work. The civil work
contractor has already begun work at the site. The management assistance team
provided by TATA Consulting Engineers (India) has been on the job since August
1978; the team's performance has been quite satisfactory to date.
Credit No. 859-LBR       Water Supply Project: US$8 million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is designed to assist the Government and the Liberia
Water and Sewer Corporation in expanding Monrovia's water production and
distribution capacity, increasing access to service for the urban poor,
improving LWSC's managerial efficiency, planning capacity and financial
viability, providing a sector study as a basis for a sector development plan
and strategy, and providing effective training opportunities and facilities
for LWSC's Liberian staff. The contracts for management consultants and
sector study are being finalized. The new Liberian Managing Director appears
to be performing quite satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
Feeder Road Project
Sup2lemental Project Data Sheet
Section I
Timetable of Key Events
a.   Identification Mission:             December 1976
b.   Project Preparation Agency:         The Interministerial Study Team of
the Liberian Government assisted by
two short-term ODM experts.
c.   Appraisal Mission:                 May - June 1978
d.   Negotiations:                       January 1979
e.   Planned Effectiveness:             May 1979
Section II
Special Project Implementation Actions
none
Section III
Special Conditions
a.   The Government to make arrangements for road maintenance and make,
by May 31, 1979, the Ministry of Local Government responsible
for the routine maintenance of the project roads (para. 37);
b.   The Government to establish a Feeder Roads Division within
MPW by July 31, 1979 (para. 43);
c.   The Government to submit to the Bank for approval the annual
feeder road programs (para. 44);
d.   The Government to set up a revolving fund and a petty cash
system by July 31, 1979 and maintain them through December 31, 1983
to ensure availability of funds for the brigades (para. 45).






IBRD 13971
;  ,,                                         StA>   A t G E t I A 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~,  $ 5 A 'ARA
''   :                 :                           W       !    \       /  >           EGYtT~~~"u 
:,  .       ,   :  .    ,           .       ,                                           i^92iTAhlAI      CX              -    j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- '\ - . ; :,,:\ ,,, ,, ,. ',W                                    ,         ,         '            ., : ,,m
f f   \l,    \ T\,,    K4   -        /FT ;P -  -                   ;             F    d.  Tt  ;~~~~~~~~~~.......
V   1\   POS3 f_4',4 ' $&,L 0 FCEiX Adj 4* idl #
..    .    g   -   t   t  }  ts2'< 6' UEI * "+* ,T 0~~~+                                 skw
.    .   .   :  i=.g--  b ;Hobh?    \ . -+  t                                                  PS T 
:   .  . .       fi   J6        F CU$-O we      O ATY<                                               Pi_ 
MOUNT  CO0U N T Y,X-                       -. -.Y rx
V X , o Golemo t j EdJbEE31ti
/  \,  ,vo      g    blle IAolomeoFos4wadgogSTo12 -    s j                     -    t    1   YkDG; I
;/C)   /              //                Fa°                /S        i               tv  t      {US;I  cc4o6.om B 0     
ts'/"w%~ MOUNT COUNTY,/Xa        KubD, c &loYelo  9 ) 4 9R                           ,  
b;Rndmo v                                           Gar¢   B9g  <  v    uy   '/ 
>                  °Ma ob                           ,.las7                1    y*4                 S  Ghpl        t
<S                     /       i          P**6                                               \t~~~H. I,                                                                         7-
o  9                      '<            0   S COUHTY   ,  '\  ;RAND GE~~~~~OUNTYUTY                                   9 
DsJche   /         f        =                                               <              S s           eS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
MONR., ~ ~                                  t+ qh_                      (h/                        \        PeowglZ:ew 
FEEDER ,ROADS PROJECT    offU   SN  ONY t/on  
>    G--twil3i                                 ;    -   2         - N
S   JI ,-    *-ihn4AR                                        5
s            *>           $;AND    ---  g~~~~~~~~~~o,
9h,                
wf tir Ww d nit ton lo s antKt_t 1he xio//oe t t ttw W~~~~ILOM ETE'RS
t  eza OA ~~~~~~~*1=w do Jof ;tv tte sstrtoftt Wo AtenJ rFtils~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~7.
r  XF w_Mwlq8    oletetaurtytettolstrdtnitt                                    htlLE5                                           ftf3~~~~~~~~~~~~NVEMSERf 19g7r



