Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE CurY
Report No. 2236a-LBR
LIBERIA
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 14, 1979
West Africa Projects Department
Section RMWA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1000            Lib$1.00
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
System of Weights and Measures: British/US
British/US                          Metric
1 foot (ft)             =       0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)             =       1.61 kilometers (km)        2
1 square mile (sq mi)  =        2.59 square kilometers (km )
1 ton (long ton)        =       1.016 metric tons (m tons)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADP           -   Action for Development Progress
ADT               Average daily traffic
ERR           -   Economic rate of return
FRG          -   Federal Republic of Germany
GDP          -   Gross domestic product
IST          -   Inter-Ministerial Study Team
LPMC              Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation
LAMCO        -   Liberian American Mining Company
MCIT          -   Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transportation
BT           -   Bureau of Transportation (in MCIT)
MPW           -   Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
ED            -   Engineering Division (in MPW)
FRD          -   Feeder Roads Division (in MPW)
PPD           -   Planning and Programming Division (in MPW)
UNDP          -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID         -   United States Agency for International Development
iap          -   Incremental agricultural production
voc           -   Vehicle operating costs
vpd           -   Vehicles per day



FOR OFHt iAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.      BACKGROUND ****.........................***..............             1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting ............ *.........          1
B.  Agriculture .......o.o..................... o..o.    ..  .......... o..  I
C.  The Transport System ... o.o.*.*. .. . . . . . . .. .  ............ .oo ..... .  3
D.  Transport Sector Management and Investments ..........           5
II.       THE ROAD SECTOR ...  o ....o.. ....... .... ..  . . . .... ... ... ..  7
Ao The Road Network .............. ..................                7
B.  Traffic on the Feeder Road Network           8.... ...... ..     8
C.  The Road Transport Industry . .......... ...  .......            8
D.  Administration.o............ ..o... .                            9
E.  Maintenance .. ...... .-..........        ............. .       10
F.  Planning ..............................                         10
G.  Engineering and Construction ............. ...........    11
H.  Appropriate Technology for Roadworks ......  oo ...... o    12
I.  Domestic Contracting Industry    ...          o  ..0-0-0....    12
J.  Financing ......        ..    . .00 ... ... ....... ....... . .0. *    13
K.  Past Bank-Group Assistance  ... oo . ....ooo...o ...    13
III.   THE PROJECT .........oo.o .............                                 15
A .  General ..........        ..................... . ..           15
B.  Construction and Improvement Program .......    o......    16
C.  Maintenance Program . ........ .  ..........  .....  . .. . .... .. . ..  17
D.  Purchases of Equipment, Material and Suplies                    18
E.  Construction of Workshops and Office Buildings                  18
F.  Technical Assistance and Follow-up Study .18
G. Training                          ....20
H. Project Monitoring  o.            .20
I. Cost Estimates..  ...   21
J. Execution .23
K. Procurement  .26
L.  Financing and Disbursements                                     26
This report has been prepared by P. Gyamfi (Engineer/Economist) based on the
findings of an appraisal mission in May/June 1978 and a follow-up mission of
A. Zampilloni (Consultant) in June/July 1978. The project was prepared by
an Inter-Ministerial Study Team established by the Government of Liberia.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                         Page No.
IV.      ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........... .    30
A. General ... ..................... ........                  30
B.  Economic Justification .............................       30
C.  Distribution of Project Benefits ....................    34
D.  Project Risks .......    ...   .....................    34
V.      RECOMMENDATIONS ............ .........                         34
ANNEXES
I.  List of Project Roads
II. Draft Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
III. Terms of Reference for Advisors to the Domestic Construction Industry
IV. Outline Terms of Reference for a Position Paper on the Reorganization
of Transport Planning and Coordination
V.   Summary Economic Analysis
VI. Documents in Project File
CHART
M.P.W. Organization Chart 1976
MAP
IBRD 13971



LIBERIA
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01      Liberia, with an area of about 43,000 sq mi, consists of a narrow
coastal plain with extensive swamps, tidal lagoons and creeks; a central
plateau with narrow valleys containing the high rain forest; and a mountainous
area along the Guinea border. These geographical features, while presenting
no insurmountable obstacles to transport, make road construction rather
expensive. The population of about 1.7 million is unevenly distributed:
well over 60% occupy about 30% of the land area in the country's central and
southwest regions. Monrovia, the capital and commercial center, alone has
some 15% of the population.
1.02      Per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased in real terms at
about 2% p.a. over the period 1960-75 reaching about US$430 in 1977 which is
high compared to most African countries. This growth has been based mostly
in the largely foreign-controlled, modern enclaves, comprising iron ore
mines, forestry concessions and rubber plantations, which contribute about
40% of GDP, 90% of export earnings and almost half of Government revenues.
The country therefore suffers from a dichotomy between the prosperous modern
sector, with per capita GDP of US$2,400, and the underdeveloped, subsistence
agricultural sector with a per capita GDP of around US$120. The Government's
current Plan (FYs 1976-80) accords high priority to rural development as the
basis for long-term economic growth and as a means to reduce the stark differ-
ences between the enclave and subsistence sectors. Efficient, reliable and
reasonably cheap transport is vital to achieving this objective.
B.   Agriculture
1.03      Agriculture contributes about 25% of GDP and 26% of export earnings
and is the second largest sector in the economy. It is characterized by three
distinct types of farming operations: (a) concession farms, largely foreign-
owned and producing rubber and oil palm exclusively for export; (b) Liberian-
owned commercial farms primarily for rubber but with secondary interest in
cocoa, coffee and oil palm; and (c) traditional farms mostly for food crops.
The large private holdings, (a) and (b), are owned by only 7% of the farm-
owning population but account for over two-thirds of the total cultivated area
while traditional farmers, over 90% of the farming population, cultivate only
the remaining third.
1.04      The principal food crops are rice, cassava and oil palm.  Rice, by
far the most important, has over the years been the object of several ad hoc
and crash Government programs aimed at increasing production. So far these
programs have achieved only limited success chiefly due to inadequate plan-
ning, insufficient farmer involvement and lack of support facilities including



- 2 -
transport. The main cash crops are rubber, cocoa, coffee, oil palm and, to
a much lesser extent, coconut. Rubber accounts for about 70% of all agricul-
tural exports and employs a third of the country's labor force or 90% of all
agricultural wage-earners. Cocoa, coffee and oil palm, only now receiving
the Government's interest, are well below their potential volumes. The Gov-
ernment has recently launched a three-pronged, tree-crop development program
using smallholders, the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC) and
industrial estates or special project plantations. A total of 85,000 acres
is planned for tree-crop production during the five-year program period.
1.05      To increase agricultural production in line with its development
priorities, the Government has adopted the following strategy:
(a) implementation of integrated rural development projects
to improve the productivity, income and living condi-
tions of smallholders;
(b) establishment and operation by public sector corpora-
tions of large industrial estates with small-holder
participation for oil palm, cocoa, coffee, coconut,
sugar cane and rice; and
(c) the continued implementation of "special projects"
mostly for rice production.
In addition to institutional weaknesses in the Ministry of Agriculture and
lack of trained manpower for extension services, the lack of infrastructure,
including feeder roads, seriously impedes the success of the above strategy.
1.06      The main agricultural development projects either underway or
proposed are:
Special Rice Projects: These projects in specially
selected areas combine smallholder rice production
with tree crops (mostly oil palm, cocoa and coffee).
About 18,000 acres are being or will be cultivated
by 1980 in four counties at an expected cost of some
US$7 million.
Large-Scale Rice Projects:  These intensive, large-
scale irrigated rice projects are being implemented
by the Liberian Rice Corporation. A total of about
US$11 million has been allocated for these projects
in the Fourth Plan (FYs 1977-80) to cultivate
17,000 acres. Chinese technical assistance is
managing the first phase of one such project in
Grand Gedeh County.



-3-
"Independence" Projects: These consist of 26 separate
projects aimed at cultivating 2,000 acres per year for
annual independence celebrations. The projects provide
for upland rice production during the first year to
be followed by tree crop plantings under the LMPC
tree crop program. About US$2 million is provided
in the plan for these projects.
Integrated Rural Development Projects: These include
the ongoing IDA-financed Lofa County and Bong County
Agricultural Development Projects. The objectives of
the two projects, estimated to cost about US$37 million,
are to cultivate about 24,000 acres of tree crops,
28,000 acres of rainfed rice, and about 9,000 acres of
swamp rice. A third project in Nimba County, the first
phase of which is expected to be financed by the Federal
Republic of German (FRG), aims at the development of
cocoa, coffee and rice.
Rubber Development Project: This Bank Group-financed
project includes the rehabilitation of 23,600 acres of
plantations for smallholders and replanting another
40,000 acres at a cost of about US$35 million.
Forestry Development Projects: With foreign assistance,
mostly FRG aid, US Peace Corps and more recently IDA,
the Government has started a reforestation program for
27,000 acres.
1.07      The Bank Group is supporting the Government's objectives to diver-
sify and expand agricultural production through five projects: the Agricul-
ture and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 306-LBR), the Lofa Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 577-LBR), the Bong Rural Development Project
(Credit 700-LBR) which includes financing for a feeder roads brigade, the
recently approved Rubber Development Project (Loan 1544/Credit 768-LBR) and a
Forestry Development Project (Credit 839-LBR). The Bank is also financing a
feeder road construction unit under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1156-LBR)
to improve feeder roads under the Upper Lofa Project. Future assistance may
include a rural development project emphasizing institutional development and
village-level investments.
1.08      Given the inadequate extent and condition of the feeder road net-
work (para. 2.02), improvement and proper maintenance of feeder roads in the
project areas are indispensable to the programs' success. The roads included
in the proposed feeder roads project will serve high priority areas in agri-
cultural projects without feeder road components (Annex I).
C.   The Transport System
1.09      Liberia's transport system consists of about 4,900 miles of roads,
300 miles of privately owned railways, four seaports and 14 airfields served
by regularly scheduled domestic flights. The system largely reflects the



- 4 -
enclave-based economy for which it has been developed. Roads are the pre-
dominant mode of transport for both passengers and non-enclave goods; coastal
shipping is insignificant.
Roads
1.10      Details of the road network and road transport are discussed in
Chapter II.
Railways
1.11      The railways, owned and operated by four mining concessions, are
used almost exclusively for iron-ore transport. This traffic increased
from about 12 million tons in 1964 to about 20 million tons in 1975. In
addition, the Liberian American Mining Company line (LAMCO) carries some
100,000 tons of general cargo annually, including about 10,000 tons of rubber
and 6,000 tons of logs and sawn timber for other concessions, and about 150
passengers daily. The development of the railways will continue to be linked
with expansion of the mining sector. Possibilities under study include (a)
construction of a new line from the Wologisi Range in the northeast to trans-
port about 10 million tons of iron ore annually to a coastal port and (b)
extension of the LAMCO Line into Guinea to transport, by 1982, up to 15
million tons per year of Guinea's iron ore to the Buchanan port.
Ports
1.12      The four seaports include two deep-water ports at Monrovia and
Buchanan and shallow-water ports at Greenville and Harper. Monrovia and
Buchanan handle about 85% of foreign trade, about 20 million tons annually
including all the iron ore, while Greenville and Harper handle mainly logs,
about 300,000 tons yearly. All four ports are fairly efficiently managed,
Buchanan by LAMCO, and the others by the National Port Authority (NPA). NPA's
operations are profitable with an annual profit of some US$2 million. The
Authority, however, needs to improve its planning and coordination.
1.13      Capacity is adequate at all ports, but planned mining and forestry
developments will necessitate expansion of facilities and/or a new port.
Several port studies are underway or planned to determine optimum strategies
for capacity provision.
Air Transport
1.14      The two international airports, Robertsfield and Spriggs Payne
(near Monrovia), are served by Air Liberia and twelve international airlines.
International passenger traffic and air cargo each increased about 8% p.a.
between 1971 and 1976. An airport improvement program, financed by USAID and
supplier credit, provided for reinforcement and extension of the runway at
Robertsfield to 11,000 feet, construction of a new control tower and installa-
tion of an instrument landing system. The runway at Spriggs Payne was recently
extended to accommodate DC-8 size aircraft. Domestic air transport, on the
other hand, has declined over the past six years, but still remains important
for access to remote parts of the country not yet served by road.



D.   Transport Sector Management and Investments
1.15      Several ministries and Government agencies are involved in transport
planning: the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for highways, the National Port
Authority for ports, and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transportation
(MCIT) for civil aviation. Railway investments are planned by the mining
concessions. The Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs is responsible
for integrating transport plans with those of other sectors of the economy.
This set-up does not provide overall coordination of transport investments
before their integration with other sectors of the economy. MCIT has been
expected to perform this function, but it does not have adequate staff   and
will require technical assistance to strengthen a Bureau of Transportation (BT)
to do this task. The Government has engaged a transport specialist under UNDP
financing to define the best strategy for BT. Technical assistance to BT will
be provided under the proposed project (para. 3.16).
1.16      The Government's objectives in the transport sector, as presented
in the FYs 1976-80 Development Plan, are to: (a) continue improving road
maintenance, (b) continue upgrading key primary roads and expanding the
secondary road system, (c) provide feeder roads to support increased agri-
cultural development efforts, (d) increase port capacity in Monrovia and
Greenville and (e) complete modernizing the Spriggs Payne airport. Recently
Government has begun to consider improving road links with neighboring Sierra
Leone. The Plan allocates about US$153 million or 42% of all investments to
transport (Chapter I, Table I). The level of planned spending might, however,
be too ambitious especially given the large share, US$110 million, expected to
be financed from external sources.



-6-
Chapter I
Table 1
Investments in Transport Sector
(in US$'000)
A.   Actual Investments in 1972-1975
1972        1973         1974        1975
1. Roads
Construction Foreign       2,610          186       4,026        3,798
1/      Government      708       1,050          738       1,870
Other-                        48       2,213        2,335        1,845
Total                      3,366       3,449        7,099        7,513
2. Airports
Foreign                    1,900          762         596        1,730
3. Ports
Foreign                      220           -          130          260
Government                                -            20           -
Total                        220           -          150          260
Grand Total                     5,486        4 211
B.   Investments Envisaged in 1976-1980 Plan
3/                  4/
Projects A-          Projects B-/   Total
1. Roads-/
Construction Foreign         40,040               53,020        93,060
1/      Government      11,390               18,430       29,820
Other-       Foreign         11,190                  510        11,700
Government      4,370                1,965         6,335
Total                        66,990               73,925       140,915
2. Ports
Foreign                       5,200                  -           5,200
Government                    3,650                  -3,650
Total                         8,850                  -           8,850
3. Airports
Foreign                          _                                  -
Government                    3,250                              3,250
Grand Total                       7__9_Q _3m9=
Foreign                     (56,430)             (53,530)    (109,960)
Government                  (22,660)             (20,395)    ( 43,055)
1/  Maintenance equipment, spare parts, street reconstruction, studies, etc.
2/  Original figures were adjusted because of revised cost estimates and road
design standards.
3/  Projects completed in 1975 or underway
4/ Some projects are expected to start soon; others do not have financing secured,
and it is uncertain whether they will be realized during the plan.
Source: Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs, July 1977.



II. THE ROAD SECTOR
A.   The Road Network
2.01      Liberia's public road network totals some 3,430 miles.  In addition,
private rubber and timber companies have built about 1,440 miles of private
roads most of which are open to public use. The network is far from adequate
for the country's needs: many areas of the country have only poor road
connections and some areas have none at all. There are only about 230 miles
of paved roads, of which half are in the vicinity of Monrovia and other
relatively large towns. Moreover, even though 1,770 miles are classified as
all-weather roads, passage on most of them is difficult during the wet season.
Major road investments are therefore required to serve a more diversified,
agriculture-based economy.
The Highway Network and its Development
(miles)
1964     1971      1974      1977
A.   Public Roads
Primary Roads
Paved                               160       203      208       230
Gravel (all weather)                650       941      968       946
810    1,144    1,176    1,176
Secondary and Feeder Roads
Gravel (all weather)                330       487      707       823
Earth (dry weather)                 610    1,270    1,265    1,432
940    1,757    1,972    2,255
Sub-total A                         1,750    2,901    3,148    3,431
B.   Private Roads
Paved                                30        86        86       90
Gravel and Earth                    500    1,184    1,308    1,354
Sub-total B                           530    1,270    1,394    1,444
TOTAL                                 2,280    4,170    4,542    4,875



- 8 -
2.02      A particular deficiency exists with regard to the 3,600 miles of
secondary and feeder roads including private roads. 1/ Most of the feeder
roads were built by forestry and rubber concessionaires as short-term, low-
standard haul roads and many are merely earth tracks without sufficient
drainage. The situation is aggravated by the absence of maintenance by both
MPW and local communities.
2.03      To improve this situation, several ministries (para 2.16) are en-
gaged in rural road construction. Their efforts, however, still fall short
of meeting the country's rapidly increasing needs, especially in ongoing and
planned rural development programs.
B.   Traffic on the Feeder Road Network
2.04      Traffic on the feeder roads comprises (a) agricultural produce
destined for local markets and county centers, (b) agricultural inputs and
consumer goods, and (c) passengers. There is a large variation in the traffic
volumes on feeder roads depending on population density, level of economic
activity and road condition. Detailed traffic counts on about 1,200 miles of
feeder roads, carried out by MPW's Planning Division in 1977-78, indicated
that traffic varies between 5 and 115 vehicles per day (vpd) with over 50% of
the roads carrying more than 20 vpd. The typical vehicles used are 3-5 ton
pay-load trucks, pick-ups and mini-buses. The selection of truck size is
influenced as much by the road condition as by transport demand. Traffic
is highly seasonal; there is over twice as much during the harvest period
as the off-season. Since the harvest season for some important cash crops
coincides with the rainy season, it is important that roads are passable
during that period.
C.   The Road Transport Industry
2.05      Available data on vehicle registration is as follows:
Private                      Trucks
Passenger        Taxis          and          Buses        Total
Cars                       Pick-ups
1970             9,377          4,735        5,234          3,864        23,210
1971             8,996          4,103        5,454          2,521        21,074
1972            10,607          3,384        4,730          2,575        21,296
1973            10,769          3,507        5,384          3,135        22,795
1974             9,875         4,576         5,841          1,800        22,092
1975            10,375          2,421        5,466          2,497        20,759
1976            11,800          1,967        4,770          2,600        21,137
1/   The ratio of secondary and feeder to primary roads in Liberia is 3 to 1,
compared to 6:1 in Ghana and 10:1 in Niger.



- 9 -
The above data are overestimated since they include some vehicles which have
gone out of use but are still registered. Since 1970 a system of automatic
deregistration has been in effect but it will be some time before the data
are correct. Data on motor fuel consumption indicate only a slow growth in
traffic. Current trends show larger trucks are replacing smaller ones and
mini-buses are increasing rapidly especially on those roads recently improved.
2.06      Government policy encourages the free development of the road
transport industry. Existing regulations govern only vehicle licensing,
registration and inspection; tariffs for intra-city taxi services; and
vehicle dimensions and axle-load limits. "For hire" trucking and other
passenger transport are free from regulations governing routes, tariffs,
or entry into the industry. The situation is generally satisfactory with
adequate competition among carriers.
D.   Administration
2.07      The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is responsible for all public
roads. The organization of MPW is shown in Chart I. The four main functions
of administration, operations (maintenance), construction and engineering are
undertaken by separate bureaus for both roads and buildings. Although its
responsibilities include the feeder road network, MPW has only recently
started to give it the attention it deserves. To fill the vacuum various
ministries and governmental agencies have independently planned and executed
their own feeder road programs (para. 2.16). The proposed project will
improve MPW's capacity and control over the feeder roads network.
2.08      MPW has over 4,000 employees including some 50 engineers and 12
architects. Given its increasing workload, MPW needs additional staff at the
professional and subprofessional levels. Recently, efforts have been made to
fill the gap at the professional level in the short-term by recruitment of a
number of foreign engineers, mostly Haitians, and in the long-term by training
Liberian engineers and economists at Liberian and US universities. The Bank
is assisting the Government under the Third Highway Project through two
scholarships for transportation economists in the US. A number of Liberian
engineers will be employed by foreign contactors undertaking road construction
under the Fourth Highway Project to familiarize them with up-to-date construc-
tion methods. In addition the proposed project includes an overseas scholar-
ship for an experienced MPW engineer to be trained in construction management
(para. 3.18).
2.09      Although MPW has enough foremen, mechanics and equipment operators
for current tasks, planned projects and expansion of road maintenance require
recruitment and staff training. This problem is being tackled adequately on
several fronts: (a) MPW provides scholarships for over 50 technicians each
year for basic training; (b) MPW's training program at the FRG-financed Camp
Mechlin has been training a steady stream of MPW road technicians, mechanics
and equipment operators since mid-1975; (c) highway maintenance consultants
under the Second and Fourth Highway Projects are providing on-the-job training
for foremen, mechanics and operators; and (d) MPW is recruiting experienced



- 10 -
mechanics and operators formerly employed by the Bong Mine Company which is
closing down its operations. Training programs need to be continued. Under
the proposed project technical assistance will provide a master mechanic to
supplement the staff at Camp Mechlin (para. 3.12).
E.   Maintenance
2.10      MPW's Operation Bureau is responsible for maintaining all public
roads. Under the Second Highway Project, MPW was reorganized and its main-
tenance capacity expanded to cope with the primary and secondary road network.
The Fourth Highway Project extends consultants' services to complete the staff
training initiated under the Second Highway Project and to assist in implement-
ing the detailed program for main road maintenance developed with consultants'
assistance.
2.11      Feeder road maintenance, also MPW's responsibility, has ranged
from poor to non-existent. Only periodic maintenance of a very small number
of these roads is included in the Ministry's maintenance program, but even
then very little maintenance is being carried out. This deficiency has
been responsible for the rapid deterioration of feeder roads built by other
ministries and Government agencies (para. 2.16) and a similar fate could
befall roads under the proposed project. To redress the situation, the
Government has developed a strategy for feeder roads maintenance. Over the
short-term, the feeder roads construction units under the proposed project
will be equipped to maintain the project roads during the four-year project
period (para. 3.30); subsequently, responsibility would be transferred to the
Operation Bureau which, by then, is expected to have increased its capacity to
handle that task. In the long-term, MPW's Operation Bureau will have overall
responsibility for maintaining feeder roads except farm-access tracks. Actual
execution of routine maintenance will be done by local communities while MPW
will perform annual reshaping and periodic regravelling. The Ministry of
Local Government will organize the local communities while MPW's district
engineers will provide maintenance guidelines and quality control. Mainte-
nance of access tracks will be the responsibility of users. During negotia-
tions Government agreed to institute feeder roads maintenance along the above
lines.
F.  Planning
2.12      Road planning is carried out by MPW's Planning and Programming
Division (PPD) which started operations in 1975. PPD's functions include
collecting and analyzing data on roads and road transport, planning over-
all road network development and carrying out ad hoc studies to determine
economic priorities and design standards. A transport economist and two
scholarships were provided for the division under the Third Highway Project,
and a transport economist and highway engineer are included under the Fourth
Highway Project. PPD's professional-level Liberian staff includes two
engineers and two economists in addition to two economists who are studying
in the US (para. 2.08). The division has the support of the Minister and is
making good progress.



- 11 -
2.13      One of the accomplishments produced during project preparation was
the successful introduction of feeder roads planning. This was accomplished
through the establishment of an Inter-ministerial Study Team (IST) involving
all ministries and agencies concerned with feeder roads; local beneficiaries
are represented by the Ministry of Local Government. The Government has
agreed to make the system permanent for feeder roads planning and studies.
Under the system, IST will be in charge of feeder roads studies undertaken by
the Government. Inputs, including the areas and roads to be studied, would be
provided as needed by IST members, notably the Ministry of Agriculture. PPD
will handle the preparatory work; IST will review PPD's recommendations and
then help develop the feeder roads program. This process will apply to all
feeder roads except on-farm or other tracks which will continue to be built by
the organizations requiring them with MPW's technical advice. At negotiations
the Government confirmed its agreement to institute above system for planning
and studying feeder roads.
G.   Engineering and Construction
2.14      MPW's Engineering Division (ED) is responsible for road engineering
and is capable of designing secondary and feeder roads with assistance from
MPW's soils and material testing laboratory. Engineering studies for major
road construction works are carried out by foreign consultants. Construction
supervision for highway projects financed with international or bilateral aid
is generally carried out with the assistance of foreign consultants. With
ED's increased workload on primary and secondary roads, it will not be able
to handle the surveying and engineering of feeder roads for some time.
Therefore MPW's strategy in the short term is to continue, as with the Lofa
County Brigade, to attach survey and design units to the field brigades
executing feeder road works. MPW will use a local consultant to carry out
more accurate surveys and engineering on feeder roads that will be constructed
and improved by local contractors (para. 3.29).
2.15      Major road contracts, mostly foreign-financed, are executed by for-
eign contractors. The few domestic contractors have been restricted to minor
drainage works and supply of materials, except the two largest who have built
secondary roads under USAID financing. Two other domestic firms have built
roads for private companies and have reasonably efficient management and
sizeable equipment fleets. Government's policy is clearly to develop the
domestic contracting industry so that it can undertake more road construction
work (paras. 2.18 and 2.19).
2.16      Several ministries -- MPW (through its Construction Bureau), Agri-
culture, Local Government -- and Action for Development Progress (ADP), as
well as local communities, are building feeder roads by force account. Only
the Ministries of Public Works and Agriculture consider economic criteria
in road selection, but even these still have no well-directed plan. Also,
apart from MPW, none of these organizations pays sufficient attention to
construction standards to ensure that roads are subsequently maintainable.
To improve the situation the Government has adopted the following strategy
for feeder roads construction: except for roads meeting mostly social objec-
tives to be built and improved by the ADP and the Ministry of Local Government



- 12 -
subject to MPW's standards, and on-farm and other tracks which may be con-
structed and maintained by beneficiaries, MPW's Construction Bureau will be
responsible for feeder roads construction and improvement, either by force
account or contract (para. 2.18). The Bureau is performing satisfactorily
with the Bank-financed Lofa County Feeder Roads Unit. Government has also
agreed to create a Feeder Roads Division (FRD) within the Construction Bureau
(para. 3.25).
H.   Appropriate Technology for Roadworks
2.17      A 1974 USAID-financed study of appropriate technology for roadworks
in Liberia showed that there is no scope for encouraging labor-intensive
methods. Demand for labor is high in rural areas during the dry season for
agricultural work; road construction is ineffective in the wet season when
surplus labor is available. The study concluded that intermediate technology,
employing equipment to supplement labor only where necessary on technical
grounds, was in all cases more expensive than mechanized technology. There-
fore, equipment-intensive technology is most appropriate for road construction
in Liberia. There is considerable scope, however, for manual work in main-
taining drainage systems and in making emergency repairs. Maintenance under
the proposed project will be labor-intensive except the annual reshaping by
MPW field divisions.
I. Domestic Contracting Industry
2.18      MPW does not have the manpower nor the resources to execute all
feeder road works by force account. It is therefore fortuitous that feeder
road construction and improvement present excellent opportunities for initia-
ting and improving the domestic construction industry. As mentioned, two
domestic firms are already engaged on USAID-financed secondary roads and
another two are building roads for private companies. A study of the domestic
contracting industry under the Second Highway Project concluded that although
the two firms engaged on USAID-financed roads had fair engineering competence,
they lacked proper work planning and financial control as well as adequate
funds to operate efficiently. Moreover, these firms cannot realistically be
expected to increase their capacity to handle the relatively large volume of
feeder road works envisaged in the near future. Therefore in addition to
increasing the capacity and quality of these two firms, measures should be
taken to develop other firms as well as to encourage the formation of new
ones.
2.19      To encourage the operation of existing firms and establishment of
new ones, Government has started to:
(a) organize several seminars to familiarize prospective
road contractors with (i) the Government's short and long-
term road construction and maintenance plans, (ii) the
technical managerial and financial requirements of the
industry, (iii) the state of the market, (iv) the form
of assistance that can be expected from the Government,
and (v) Government's prequalification requirements;



- 13 -
(b) assist domestic contractors in purchasing some construction
equipment;
(c) replace existing local competitive bidding procedures
with competitive bidding against engineers' estimates;
and
(d) provide direct technical assistance in the form of a
construction expert to train and assist domestic con-
tractors with work planning, job cost estimation, bid
preparation, proper site organization and analytical
accounting.
During negotiations the Government agreed with the principle and outline
proposals for technical assistance to MPW to assist in developing their
organization for planning and supervising the work of contractors and also
for local financial institutions to assist local contractors organize their
financial affairs (Annex III). Funds for the services are included under the
proposed project (para. 3.12).
J.   Road Financing
2.20      Road construction has been financed largely by foreign lending with
the Bank Group, USAID, FRG and the African Development Bank as principal
sources. Capital spending for highways totalled about US$15 million from 1972
to 1975. The Four-year Development Plan (FYs 1977-80) gives priority to the
development of the road subsector with an allocation of about US$141 million
or 38% of total investments. It is, however, unlikely that all these invest-
ments will be achieved given MPW's limited absorbtive capacity and the uncer-
tainty of securing all the foreign financing needed.
2.21      Expenditures for maintenance,financed from the general budget,
increased from US$1.5 million in 1971 to about US$2.6 million in 1975 and
US$5.3 million in 1976. For FY1978, US$6.5 million has been requested,
which, if approved by the Ministry of Finance, would be adequate. No funds
have been budgetted so far for feeder roads maintenance mostly because MPW
has not included it in its annual maintenance program. The proposed project
initiates a redress of the above situation (para. 3.08).
K.   Past Bank-Group Assistance
2.21      The First Highway Project (Loan 368-LBR, US$4.25 million, 1964) was
completed in June 1969. The project consisted of reconstructing two roads and
supplying equipment for road maintenance. The reconstruction of both roads
was engineered by MPW. The Kle-Pujehun road (43.7 mi) is in fair condition
with increasing amounts of maintenance required. Pavement failures rapidly
developed on the Paynesville-Robertsfield road (28 mi) and the road has needed
continuous repair to keep it in condition to carry the increasing traffic.
The bituminous surfacing employed was pervious, permitting water to enter the
road base. Sealing of the road surface arrested the rapid development of



- 14 -
failure, but much of the road base had been permanently weakened and subse-
quent rainy seasons have produced further areas of failure needing repair.
Total project costs were US$7.00 million, 16.4% over the appraisal estimate.
The Government met the full cost overrun.
2.22      The Second Highway Project (Loan 907/Credit 395-LBR, US$5.6 million,
1973) was completed at the beginning of 1978. The project included technical
assistance to reorganize and improve highway maintenance and to review the
domestic highway construction industry, the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment and workshop tools, and the construction of the Monrovia Bypass.
The project also included the detailed engineering for (i) improvements to
U.N. Drive (5.4 mi), to the Totota-Ganta road (83 mi), to the Paynesville-
Robertsfield road (28 mi), and to the Paynesville-Totota road (71 mi) and to
Water Street in Monrovia; and (ii) a new bridge over the Mesurado river in
Monrovia.
2.23      Reasonable progress has been made with the technical assistance.
The construction of the Monrovia Bypass has been completed with a small cost
overrun. The detailed engineering for U.N. Drive, the Mesurado River bridge
in Monrovia and the Totota-Ganta road was successfully completed and the works
are now under way as part of the Third Highway Project. The detailed engineer-
ng for the Paynesville-Robertsfield and Paynesville-Totota roads was completed
in June 1977. The design concepts for the reconstruction of the Paynesville-
Totota road were too expensive and the detailed engineering of both roads
required some revision to make sure that construction standards were adequate
for the expected traffic.
2.24      The Third Highway Project (Loan 1156-LBR, US$27.5 million, 1975)
is scheduled for completion at the end of 1979. Under this project, UN Drive
in Monrovia and the Totota-Ganta road are being reconstructed and the Mesurado
River bridge is being constructed in Monrovia. In addition technical assis-
tance was provided for MPW's Programming and Planning Division and consultant
services for (a) feasibility studies on extensions to the main road system
from Ganta to Sanniquellie and to Tapeta (about 90 miles in all); (b) detailed
engineering of the Mount Coffee Dam Road; (c) a study of urban development in
Monrovia; and (d) assistance to equip and operate a Feeder Road Construction
Unit.
2.25      Construction under the Third Highway Project is being undertaken by
foreign contractors with supervision from international consultants. There
have been delays on all three project items because of bad weather and diffi-
culties in supplying materials, particularly crushed stone. Apart from the
delays, the quality of work done has been satisfactory. Technical assistance
to the Programming and Planning Unit is proving effective. The feasibility
studies are well in hand, as is the urban development study. Detailed engi-
neering of the Mount Coffee Dam road has been deleted from the project because
the feasibility study did not show adequate justification for the work. The
Feeder Road Unit started working in February 1977 and is operating successfully
in Lofa County in association with the agricultural development project.



- 15 -
2.26      The Fourth Highway Project (Ln. 1573-LBR, US$13.8 million, 1978)
comprises improvement of the Paynesville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfiled
roads; detailed engineering for the Ganta-Sanniquelli and Canta-Tapita roads;
feasibility study for the Gbarnga-Voinjama-Kolahun road; follow-up consulting
services for the organization and execution of road maintenance; and technical
assistance to the Planning and Programming Division of the Ministry of Public
Works. The project is just starting.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General
3.01      One of the principal objectives of the proposed project is to con-
tinue assisting Government in building and improving feeder roads necessary
to achieve its rural development goals. In so doing, the proposed project
will work to establish the institutions and train staff for planning, develop-
ment and maintenance of feeder roads including closer cooperation among Gov-
ernment and other agencies on feeder road matters and increased involvement
of local communities. Other principal objectives are to improve overall
transport planning and coordination, and to provide a base for developing the
domestic road contracting industry.
3.02      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  a four-year program for the construction or improvement
and subsequent maintenance of about 700 miles of feeder
roads plus the maintenance of an additional 200 miles of
existing feeder roads;
(b)  assistance to the domestic contracting industry;
(c)  studies for a follow-up feeder roads program and
monitoring of project progress and its socio-economic
impact;
(d)  assistance to MCIT's Bureau of Transportation; and
(e)  training for local staff including an overseas scholar-
ship.
3.03      To these ends, the loan will assist in financing the following:
(a)  purchase of road construction and maintenance equipment,
spare parts, vehicles, office equipment, workshop tools
and survey equipment;
(b)  purchase of materials and supplies;
(c)  construction of workshops and office buidings;



- 16 -
(d) survey and design of about 250 miles of feeder roads
by local consultants and construction of these roads
by local contractors;
(e) technical assistance and consultancy services; and
(f) an overseas scholarship.
B.   Construction and Improvement Program
3.04      The 700 miles of feeder roads to be constructed or improved were
selected after a condition inventory and socio-economic study of some 2,200
miles by the IST assisted by two short-term consultants financed by the UK
Overseas Development Ministry. Practically all the roads are located in
areas of ongoing or planned agricultural development. The program's size has
been determined chiefly by the manpower MPW has available to implement it.
The criteria for inclusion of specific roads in the program were (a) a minimum
economic rate of return (ERR) of 10% for each road; and (b) the needs of the
agricultural projects supported by the roads. The necessity for geographical
coordination to prevent long travel distances by each road brigade was also
considered. A firm work program for the first year and tentative program for
the second, third and fourth years have been agreed upon with Government
(Annex 1). During negotiations the Government confirmed its agreement on the
firstyear program.
3.05      Reconstruction or improvement of about 450 miles of project roads
will be by force account. The works will consist of (a) reshaping with or
without roadway widening, (b) regravelling selected road sections and (c)
building, repairing and reinforcing drainage structures. The remaining 250
miles of roads require practically new construction and will be undertaken
by local contractors. The following design standards take into consideration
traffic levels and soil conditions.
Feeder Road Class               Type I               Type II
Opening Year ADT              25 and Over           Under 25
Clearing width (ft)              40                    30
Formation width (ft)             20                    16
Gravelled width (ft)             16                    12 /1
Surface type               gravel/laterite
Surface thickness (in)          4-6                     4 /1
/1   Where necessary.
During negotiations the Government confirmed its agreement to these standards.



- 17 -
3.06      The 700-mile feeder road program includes about 220 miles of feeder
roads in the ongoing Lofa Agricultural Development Project. A brigade pro-
vided under the Third Highway Project to start building feeder roads needed
for this project will, by January 1980, have exhausted its operating funds
after completing construction of 150 miles of roads. The proposed project
provides for the brigade's continued operation for another four years to
complete the remaining 220 miles of the 370 miles total needed by the Lofa
Project.
C.   Maintenance Program
3.07      The project includes subsequent maintenance of the 700 miles of
project roads and maintenance of an additional 200 miles of feeder roads
in the project areas. During the project period, the force account brigades
will also be equipped and funded to carry out annual reshaping of the roads
they build and other selected roads within or close to their operating areas;
roads built by local contractors will be maintained by the latter for a year
after road completion and then handed over to the Operations Bureau for
subsequent maintenance. Routine maintenance on the project roads, including
clearing vegetation, filling pot-holes, clearing ditches,drains and drain-
age structures will be the responsibility of local communities under the
administrative supervision of the Ministry of Local Government and technical
supervision of MPW's district engineers. The Government will provide half the
labor costs for routine maintenance; the remaining labor will be contributed
by local voluntary labor or through funds from the beneficiary communities.
During negotiations Government (a) confirmed its agreement on the above
arrangements for maintenance during the project period, and (b) agreed to
make, by May 31, 1979, the Ministry of Local Government responsible for the
routine maintenance of the project roads.
3.08      After project completion, the maintenance equipment included under
the project and responsibility for maintaining the 900 miles of feeder roads
will be transferred to the Operations Bureau. The minimum acceptable main-
tenance standards both during the project and after its completion will be
as follows:
(a) Roadways will be kept at the width to which they were
constructed with adequate camber to ensure that the
roadway is basically all-weather; pot-holes and larger
corrugations will be eliminated;
(b) Drainage will be kept free of obstructions or improved
to ensure that lateral ditches and cross-drainage
structures are able to carry water away without causing
erosion; and
(c) Drainage structures, retaining walls and slope protec-
tion will be maintained or improved to ensure structural
soundness and adequate protection against erosion or scour.



- 18 -
At negotiations, the Government agreed to take all administrative, technical
and financial steps to maintain the 700 miles of feeder roads constructed
under the project and 200 miles of additional feeder roads to the above
standards. The financial requirements are estimated to be about US$50,000
during the first year and to increase steadily to about US$100,000 during the
final year of project implementation.
D.   Purchases of Equipment, Material and Supplies
3.09      MPW's Construction Bureau does not have any equipment for new
brigades; therefore the project provides for all the equipment and spare
parts needed to operate two new mechanized brigades and their road mainte-
nance subsidiary units. Spare parts and dump trunks will also be purchased
for the Lofa County feeder roads brigade. The total equipment requirements
are listed in Chapter 3, Table 1. The project also provides for purchasing
workshop tools and materials such as cement, steel and lumber and supplies
such as fuel, lubricants and tires. The project also provides for purchas-
ing equipment and supplies necessary to carry out the follow-up feeder road
study (para 3.15), and material and supplies for trainign at Camp Mechlin
(para 3.17). The Government has agreed to set up a separate procurement and
accounting system for these project items and to appoint a Procurement Officer
in the Feeder Roads Division to handle the task.
E.   Construction of Workshops and Office Buildings
3.10      The project provides for the construction of two modest workshops
and two office buildings by local contractors for the road brigades. MPW's
Engineering Division will design them. At negotiations Government agreed to
construct and have these workshops in operation by December 31, 1979.
F.   Technical Assistance and Follow-up Study
3.11      Technical assistance (a total of 156 man-months) will be provided
under the project to assist the Government in carrying out the feeder road
programs and to prepare a follow-up program for feeder road improvement
and maintenance, specifically to:
(a) establish and manage the Feeder Roads Division of the
Construction Bureau;
(b) prepare bidding documents and procure equipment, spare
parts, tools, materials and supplies;
(c) define the annual feeder road programs and prepare
detailed plans for their execution;
(d) implement the feeder road programs;
(e) train road foremen, mechanics and operators;
(f) collect the necessay information for preparing a follow-
up program for feeder roads improvement and maintenance;



- 19 -
(g) monitor the project; and
(h) supervise local consultants and contractors in work
planning, job-cost estimation, bid preparation, proper
site organization and analytical accounting.
3.12      The technical assistance will comprise the following personnel:
(a) a highway engineer for two and half years to assist
the chief of the proposed Feeder Roads Division;
(b) a highway engineer/road technician for two years to
head one of the two mechanized brigades;
(c) a master-mechanic for two years;
(d) a master mechanic or mechanical engineer for
two years to train Liberian staff;
(e) an agricultural economist who will visit Liberia
periodically for a total of six months during the
project period;
(f) a construction expert for two years; and
(g) construction/financial management expert(s) to assist
approved Liberian financial institution(s) for a total
of two man-years.
3.13      This volume of technical assistance takes into consideration
MPW's current manpower availability and assumes that experienced Liberians
would be available to fill the positions of master mechanic and road tech-
nician by September 1980. At negotiations Government agreed to attach suit-
able staff to the existing Lofa Brigade by February 1979 to gain the necessary
experience for the above tasks..
3.14      The experts' outline Terms of Reference, required qualifications
and schedule of assignment were agreed upon with Government during nego-
tiations (Annexes II and III).
3.15      The follow-up study under the project will determine additional
feeder roads needs beyond the proposed project with special emphasis on
maintenance. The study will be undertaken by the Interministerial Study Team
with the help of the technical assistance experts.
3.16      The project will also provide for technical aid to assist reorgani-
zing and strengthening MCIT's Bureau of Transportation for a total of 72 man-
months. The Government has engaged a transport specialist to prepare, within



- 20 -
about two months, a position paper analyzing the present situation and pro-
posing a detailed course of action under Terms of Reference prepared by the
Bank (Annex IV). The position paper will serve as a basis for defining in
detail the precise scope and terms of reference of technical assistance to
MCIT. Arrangements for the implementation of this technical assistance were
confirmed at negotiations. A condition of disbursement for this technical
assistance will be that the Government and the Bank have agreed on the stra-
tegy for strengthening BT and on the scope of technical assistance.
G.   Training
3.17      The project will provide training for Liberian staff at all levels
including engineers, road technicians, mechanics, foremen and equipment
operators. An experienced MPW engineer will be awarded an overseas scholar-
ship for an 18-month construction management course, including nine months'
practical training with a reputable road construction firm. After the course
the engineer will join the proposed Feeder Roads Division to oversee and
coordinate the construction activities of the feeder roads brigades. Effi-
cient project execution will also require training or refresher courses
for about 4 road technician/foremen, 8 mechanics and 20 equipment operators.
Training for these will commence at MPW training center at Camp Mechlin and
will continue on the job. Training is expected to start by April 1, 1979
and be completed within two and a half years. In order not to overload the
program for continuous training of road technicians and mechanics for MPW's
road maintenance, the project provides for supplementing the center's staff by
an instructor (para 3.12). Personnel training will be continued on the job by
the technical assistance experts. At negotiations, the Government agreeAto
these training arrangements.
H.   Project Monitoring
3.18      The proposed project includes setting up a monitoring system within
MPW's Planning and Programming Division with the following objectives:
(a) to develop the engineering, economic and social aspects
of the project to permit (i) modifications to the project,
if necessary, during implementation to maximize its output,
and (ii) design of a follow-up feeder road program reflect-
ing insights gained from the project;
(b) to assess the long-term socio-economic impact in the feeder
roads' areas of influence; and
(c) to test certain assumptions underlying the engineering
design of the project, including the productivity of
different operations and the appropriateness of the
design standards recommended.



- 21 -
Project monitoring activities will include:
(a)  measuring traffic flows on selected roads to establish
growth and evolution in traffic composition;
(b) for the influence areas of the project roads, collect-
ing data periodically, on a sampling basis, on (i) popu-
lation size, (ii) agricultural production and proportion
marketed, (iii) evolution of the economic and social
fields, (iv) changes in farmgate price for different
commodities and (v) changes in land ownership;
(c) collecting and updating information on a sampling basis
on vehicle operating costs and transport charges on
project roads;
(d) evaluating the productivity and cost of force account
brigades and local contractors;
(e) evaluating the quality and frequency of routine mainte-
nance works by local communities and the appropriateness
of administrative linkages between the Ministry of Local
Government and the local communities; and
(f) evaluating the quality of works and the rate of deter-
ioration of project roads in relation to materials used,
rainfall, traffic and maintenance effort and techniques.
3.19      The Planning and Programming Division will assemble the results
of the monitoring operations and analyze the routine data. Each year during
project implementation and biannually for six years thereafter, the Govern-
ment will submit the results to the Bank annually not later than three months
before the start the next year's improvement program. During negotiations
the Government agreed to the items to be monitored, the use of the University
of Liberia and the reporting procedures outlined above.
I.   Cost Estimates
3.20      Total project costs are estimated at US$18.8 million including
taxes and duties. Project costs net of taxes and duties are estimated at
US$16.3 million with a foreign exchange component of US$10.7 million or
66%. A summary of project costs is as follows:



- 22 -
Project Cost Estimatesl/
(US$ Thousands)
Net of Taxes
% Foreign
Project Component                           Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange    Taxes
(a) Force Account Construction,
Improvement and Maintenance
(i) Equipment, Vehicles, Workshop
Tools, Office Equipment and
Survey Equipment                   96.9    2,299.5   2,396.4        96        304.0
(ii) Spare Parts, Tire and Repairs   180.0         720.0      900.0      80        173.9
(iii) Supplies (Fuel and Lubricants)
for Road Construction and
Improvement                       237.7       951.0   1,188.7       80 X     430.5 2/
(iv) Materials                          184.9      555.0      739.9      67 v      122.3 2/
(v) Local Staff                     1,260.0         -      1,260.0       0          0
(vi) Workshop and Office Building        50.0        50.0     100.0      50         40.2
(vii) Field Mobilization (Housing,
Furniture, etc.)                   15.0        10.0       25.0      40         10.7
Subtotal (a)                              2_024.5    4,585.5   6,610.0        69     1,081.6
(b)  Civil Works by Local Contractors  1,482.0    2,319.0   3,801.0           62       592.3
(c)  Survey and Design by Local
Consultants                            137.5        62.5     200.0      31         60.3
(d)  Technical Assistance for Feeder
Road Programs                          172.0       689.0     861.0      80         60.8
(e)  Follow-up Study                         60.0        40.0      100.0     40         10.5
(f)  Technical Assistance to MCIT           110.0       470.0      580.0     80         29.2
(g)  Training and Foreign Scholarships   120.0           50.0      170.0     29         25.3
Subtotal (a) through (g)                  4,106.0    8,216.0  12,322.0        66     1,860.0
(h) Contingencies:
Physical (10% on Item (a)
and 20% On Item (b))              498.8       922.3   1,421.1       64        226.7
Price                             19017.1    1,581.1   2,598.2        60        406.9
Subtotal (h)                              1,515.9    2,503.4   42019.3        62       633.6
Total (a) through (h)                     5,621.9   10,719.4  16,341.3        66     21493.6
Total (rounded)                     (5,600)   (10,700)  (16,300)        66    (2,500)
1/   Costs base in June, 1978.
2/   Items tax-exempt when procured in bulk by MPW.



- 23 -
3.21      Cost estimates for equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies
are based on recent bid prices in Liberia. Operating costs of equipment
and labor are based on the experience of existing MPW road brigades and
assumes the equipment will be used about 200 days a year.
3.22      Since there is no recent bidding experience in Liberia for feeder
road construction, the cost estimates for road works by local contractors
have been based on (a) bid unit rates for volumes of completed work in sec-
ondary road construction contracts awarded to local contractors; (b) unit
costs of MPW's most efficient brigade; and (c) calculated inputs of materials,
equipment, and estimated contractors' overhead and profit. Average con-
struction cost per mile is estimated at US$15,200 at June 1978 prices.
This compares reasonably well with the construction cost of similar roads
in neighboring Ivory Coast which has as an equally open economy.
3.23      The cost for survey and engineering by local consultants is based
on current charges for engineering services in Liberia and includes funds
for some assistance to FRD in preparing bidding documents.
3.24      The cost of technical assistance, assumed to be provided by a
foreign consultant firm, is estimated at US$5,500 per month, including sala-
ries, overheads and profits. Reimbursable expenses payable to consultants,
i.e. housing, travel and local subsistence, are estimated at US$1,900 per
man-month. The cost of the follow-up studies and project monitoring is
based on these being carried out by MPW's Planning and Programming Division
with limited assistance by short-term consultants. Local consultants are
estimated to cost an average of US$1,500 per man-month.
3.25      A quantity contingency allowance of 10% for force account construc-
tion items and 20% for civil works by domestic contractors has been included
in the cost estimates. Provision for future price increases has been calcu-
lated separately using the following rates: for equipment and spare parts, 7%
in 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 6% thereafter; for other items, 8% for 1978, 7.5% in
1979 and 7% thereafter. Price contingencies amount to about 20% of the total
base cost in June 1978 prices. Local and foreign cost escalation have been
assumed equal.
J.   Execution
3.26      MPW will be responsible for project execution except for the tech-
nical aid in transport planning for which MCIT will be responsible. To carry
out the proposed project future feeder roads activities, MPW will create and
staff a Feeder Roads Division (FRD) within the Construction Bureau. The FRD's
key staff will be a division chief, a quantity surveyor/road technician, a
procurement officer and an accountant. The project will be implemented as
shown on the implementation schedule on page 24. During negotiations the
Government should confirm its agreement to (a) create and staff the FRD by
July 31, 1979 and (b) to the implementation schedule.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1979                 1980                 1981                  1982                   1983
1. Institution Building
(a)  Creation and Staffing of Feeder Roads Division
(7/3/79)              x
[b) Recruitment Technical Assistance Experts
- Highway Engineer                         ( 6/ 1/79)
- Trainer / Instructor                     (4/ 1/79)       XX
- Highway Technician                       (6/ 1/79)             X                                         X
- Master Mechanic                          (6/ 1/79)             X                                         X
- Construction Expert                      (6/ 1/79)            X                                          X
- Financial Management Expert              (4/ 1/79)       X                                       -x
- Agricultural Economist                                                     X-X                   X-X                   X-X
- Transport Economist for MCIT (No.1) (7/ 1179)                 X                                                             X
- Transport Economist for MCIT (No.2) (10/l/79)                      XX
(c)  Training of Road Technicians, Foremen, Mechanics                                                                                                                          4
and Equipment Operators                    (4/ 1/79)        K
2.  Project Implementation
- Preparation of Annual Programs                                                          -X                       X                     X
- Preparation of Bidding Documents for Equipment0/1/7 ) X
- Call for Bids                                 (4/ 1/79)          X
- Analysis of Bids and Selection of Suppliers(5/ 1/79)               X
- Delivery of Equipment                            0.1/ 1/79)                 X              X
- Selection of Local Consultants                (3/ 1/79)       X
- Survey, Design and Preparation of Bids                              x
for New Construction                          (6/ 1/79)
- Prequalification of Local Contractors         (7/ 1/79)                  X
- Call for Bids from Local Contractors          (10/1/79)                   X
- Analysis and Award of Bids to Local
Contractors                                   (1/ 2/80)
- Mobilisation of Force Account Brigades
New Brigade 1                             (10/1/79)                   X
New Brigade 2                             ( 7/1/80)                                   X
- Construction of WorKshops and Office
Buildings                                     ( 1/2/80)                                       X
- Roadworks  by Local Contractors               ( 3/1/80                              X
- Roadworks by Force Account                    ( 9/l/79)                  X                                                                                          A X
- Project Monitoring                            ( 911/79)                  X
- Project Supervision                           ( 4/1/79)   __________________                                                 --------------------------------------



- 25 -
3.27      The feeder roads to be constructed and improved during the first
year have been agreed upon with the Government. Roads for subsequent years
of the program will be proposed annually by the Ministry of Agriculture with
the assistance of the respective Agricultural Project Units executing agri-
cultural projects to be served by the roads. This proposed list will be
reviewed and approved by the Interministerial Study Team. MPW's Planning
and Programming Division will be responsible for preparing detailed work
programs based on the selected roads. During negotiations, Government agreed
that, three months before the scheduled start of works, it will submit for
Bank approval the annual road programs, with detailed justification where
necessary.
3.28      About 450 miles of the project roads, requiring mostly improve-
ment and rehabilitation, will be executed by MPW's three force account
brigades, including the existing Lofa brigade. Any necessary surveying
and engineering prior to construction will be carried out by crews attached
to these brigades with the Engineering Division assuring quality control
through periodic site visits. The first new brigade will be mobilized in
the field by September 30, 1979 and the second, one year later. To ensure
the brigades' liquidity a revolving fund, replenishable quarterly to a ceil-
ing of US$150,000, will be set up by June 30, 1979 to cover all equipment
operating expenditures of the three brigades. In addition a petty cash system
will be set up by the same date for each brigade in the field to a ceiling
of US$15,000 per quarter to be controlled by the brigade chief. To ensure
prompt supplies of materials and other inputs to the field brigades, FRD's
Procurement Officer will be charged with procurement of these items separately
from other MPW's procurement. During negotiations Government confirmed its
agreement to the above arrangements.
3.29      Construction of the remaining 250 miles of roads will be by con-
tract. The survey, design and bidding documents for these works will be
executed by local consultants and subject to Bank approval before contract
awards. FRD will supervise the work of both the local consultants and con-
tractors with the technical assistance, if necessary, of the Engineering
Division. During negotiations Government confirmed its agreement to
the above arrangements.
3.30      The maintenance program will be carried out by (a) the local com-
munities for side brushing, pot-hole filling and clearing of drains and drain-
age structures, (b) reshaping crews attached to the force account brigades for
some 650 miles of feeder roads, and (c) the resident maintenance engineers for
the 250 miles of roads to be built by local contractors. The Ministry of
Local Government will be responsible for mobilizing the local communities for
road maintenance works. MPW will draw up the maintenance program for them and
supervise its execution. During negotiations Government confirmed its agree-
ment with these maintenance arrangements.
3.31      Detailed plans and construction supervision for the workshops and
office buildings under the project will be done by MPW's Engineering Divison.
Construction is expected to be by a local contractor.



- 26 -
K.   Procurement
3.32      Equipment, vehicles, spare parts, materials and supplies amounting
to about US$4.1 million will be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. These items will be bulked
to the extent possible to make them attractive to international manufacturers
and dealers. Goods manufactured in Liberia will be allowed a preference of
i5% of the c.i.f. price on imported goods or the prevailing duties, whichever
is lower. Contracts for equipment, materials and supplies costing less than
US$60,000 may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following local
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The aggregate amount of such purchases
will not exceed US$400,00. Contracts for construction of 250 miles of roads
and two workshops and office buildings for a total of US$6.0 million includ-
ing contingencies will follow competitive bidding advertised locally against
MPW estimates by contractors prequalified by MPW with Bank approval. Local
consultants for survey, design and preparation of bidding documents for 250
miles of roads and foreign consultants for technical assistance will be
employed in agreement with and under Terms of Reference and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank. The above arrangements were agreed upon with Government
during negotiations.
L.   Financing and Disbursements
3.33      The proposed loan of US$10.7 million will finance about 66% of total
project costs net of taxes, i.e. all foreign costs. The Government will
finance the local costs of US$5.6 million. Taxes and duties are estimated at
US$2.5 million. A financial schedule of project elements is given in Chapter
III, Table 2.
3.34      The loan funds will be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign costs of imported equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, workshop tools and survey and
office equipment, or 80% of the total costs of these
items if purchased locally;
(b) 80% of total expenditures for materials and supplies;
(c) 62% of total expenditures for civil works by local
contractors;
(d) 30% of total expenditures for local consultants,
studies and training;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
experts and expatriate consultants; and
(f) 100% of foreign costs of the overseas scholarship.



- 27 -
Retroactive financing by the Bank to a maximum of US$0.1 million is provided
for (a) purchase of two dump trucks for the Lofa County feeder roads brigade,
(b) purchase of a pick-up for the proposed Feeder Roads Division and (c) for
the initial costs of the training expert. Requests for disbursements will be
fully documented. Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account
would be made against Certificates of Expenditure with the supporting docu-
mentation retained by the Government and kept available for inspection during
the course of supervision missions. Based on the foregoing and the imple-
mentation schedule, the estimated schedule of disbursements is as follows:
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
Bank Fiscal                      Disbursements    Cumulative    Undisbursed
Year          Quarter         during Quarter  Disbursements      Amount
1979             3                   0                0          10,700
4                100              100           10,600
1980             1                 200              300          10,400
2                200              500           10,200
3              1,300            1,800            8,900
4                600            2,400            8,300
1981             1               1,300            3,700           7,000
2                500            4,200            6,500
3                500            4,700            6,000
4                600            5,300            5,400
1982             1                 500            5,800           4,900
2                500            6,300            4,400
3                500            6,800            3,900
4                500            7,300            3,400
1983             1                 500            7,800           2,900
2                500            8,300            2,400
3                600            8,900            1,800
4                600            9,500            1,200
1984             1                 600           10,100              600
2                600           10,700                0
Source:  Mission's Estimates
November, 1978



- 286-                                            Chapter 3
Table 1
Eqiuipment to be Purchased
A. For Brigades                                                                       I/
No. of Units          Unit Costs(Net of Taxes)-   Total Costs(Net of Taxes)
ConstructionMS1mtteaaceeTotal         (US$ 1000)                  (US$ 1000)
Brigadeb-   Units              Local  Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign    Total
BulIdozerkw/ripper(200 HP)        2         _         2      4.5    135.5   140.0        9.0      271.0      280.0
Bulldozer w/ripper(140 HP)        2         -         2      3.4    102.6   106.0        6.8       205.2     212.0
Motorgrader (120 HP)              4         3         7       2.9     69.1    72.0    20.3         483.7      504.0
Wheel-loader (80 HP)              2         -         2       2.1     50.9    53.0       4.2       101.8      106.0
Pneumatic-tyred roller            2         -         2      0.7      21.3    22.0       1.4        42.6      44.0
Dump Trucks (6 m3)               15         3        18       1.3     28.7    30.0    23.4         515.9      543.3
Water Teuck                        2        -         2       1.1     33.9    35.0       2.2        67.8       70.0
Fuel Truck                        2         -         2       1.3     38.7    40.0       2.6        77.4       80.0
Mobile Workshop                   2         -         2       2.8     84.2    87.0       5.6       168.4      174.0
Service Pick-up                   2         -         2      0.4      11.6    12.0       0.8        23.2       24.0
Utility Pick-up                   2         -         2      0.3       9.7    10.0       0.6        19.4       20.0
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles            4         -         4      0.4      11.6    12.0       1.6        46.4       48.0
Service Car                       2         -         2      0.2       6.8      7.0      0.4        13.6       14.0
Lubrication Unit                  2         -         2       1.1     31.9    33.0       2.2        63,8       66.0
'Compressor w/tools               2         -         2       0.7     20.3    21.0       1.4        40.6       42.0
Water Pump                        2         -         2       0.1      3.9      4.0      0.2         7.8        8.0
Concrete Mixer                    2         -         2      0.2       7.8      8.0      0.4        15.6       16.0
Generator (6 KVA)                 2         _         2       1.0     14.0    15.0       2.0        28.0       30.0
Welding Machine                   2         -         2       0.1      3.9      4.0      0.2         7.8        8.0
Power Drill                       2         -         2      0.1       2.9      3.0      0.2         5.8        6.0
Surveying Instruments (Set)       2         -         2      0.2       6.8      7.0      0.4        13.6       14.0
Hand Tools for Mechanics,
Carpenters, etc.                  2         -         2      0.5       9.5    10.0       1.0        19.0      20.0
Communication Equipment           2         -         2      0.1       2.9      3.0      0.2         5.8       6.0
Subtotal A                                                                         87.1    2 j244. 2   2=31.=3
B. For Central Unit
Service Car                                           1      0.1       7.5      8.0     0.1         7.9        8.0
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles                                3      0.4      11.6    12.0       1.2       34.8       36.0
Typewriters                                           2      0.1       0.9      1.0     0.2         1.8        2.0
Duplicating 14achine                                  1      0.3       3.2      3.5     0.3         3.2        3.5
Adding Machine                                        2       -        0.3      0.3       -         0.6        0.6
Office Furniture (Set)                                1      8.0       7.0    15.0      8.0         7.0       15.0
Subtotal B                                                                          9.8        55.3       65.1
GRAND TOTAL (A + B)                                                                96.9    2,299.5   2,396.4
1/  Total Duty on A and B - US$ 354,000.
2/ Including 5 for Lofa County



Fir.ica al Schedule of Project Ble-et.
(US$15000
1979                         1980                          1981                         1982                          1983                          TOTAL
froject Cp.ponent             Local  Fore.is    Total     Luc.S    Foreice    Total     Local   Fore-ie    Total      lel   F-oreiRn    Total        -       orF-ei   Totel      LTOTl F i             Tool
A. Force Accuout Work
1. Equip=nt, vehicle. .-ork.hp Tol.,
Office Equip-.ot od Survey Equipet      56.3   1,248.8  1,305.1       40.6  1,050.7  1,091.3        .         -        -          -         -        -                   _        _         96.9    2,299.5   2,396.4
2. Spare P-rt., Type. od .pWtre             19.4    459.9    479.3        40.0     65.0    105.0       40.0      65.0    105.0       40.0      65.0    105.0      40.6      65.1    105.7      180.0       720.0     900.0
3. Fuel ood Lubricant, for C-oetroctioo
od leprove--ot                          25.2    101.2    126.4        45.5    182.1    227.6       60.7    242.8    303.5        60.7    242.8    303.5        45.6    182.1    227.7      237.7       951.0   1,188.7
4. Mhteril. cd Sopplie.                    19.7      59.0     78.7       35.4    106.3    141.7       47.2    141.7    188.9        47.2    141.7    188.9        35.4    106.3    141.7      184.9       555.0     739.9
5. L-ocl Stcff                             133.8      -       133.8      240.9      -      240.9      322.2       -      322.2      322.2      -       322.2     240.9       -      240.i   1,260.0         -      1,260.0
6. Work.hbp rod Office Boilding.            25.0     25.0      S0.0       25.0     25.0      50.0       -         _        _          _        _         _         _         _        -         50.0       50.0      100.0
7. Field Mobli-tioo                          7.5      5.0      12.0        7.5      5.0      12.0       _        _         _          _        _         _         _         _        _         15.0       10.0       25.0
Subtotal A                               286.9  1,098.9  2,185.8       434.9  1,434.1  1,869.0      470.1    449.5    919.6       470.1    449.5    919.6       362.5    353.5    716.0   2,024.5    4,585.5   6,610.0
S. Other Item.
1. CIvil Work, by Local Contrctor.         148.0    240.0    388.0       280.0    454.0    734.0      387.0    628.0  1,015.0       335.0    543.0    878.0      332.0    454.0    886.0   1,482.0    2,319.0   3,801.0
2. Survey cd Deigo by Local Conaultnt.    27.5      12.5      40.0      27.5      12.5     40.0       27.5      12.5     40.0       27.5     12.5      40.0      27.5      12.5     40.0      137.5       62.5      200.0
3. Techcic.l A...t.anoe                     59.6    248.8    308.4      141.6    546.8    688.4        78.6    354.6    433.2         2.2      8.8      11.0       -         -        -        282.0    1,159.0   1,441.0
4. Stcdle.                                   -        -         _         10.0      5.0      15.0      20.0     10.0      30..0      25.0     10.0      35.0       5.0      15.0     20.0       60.0       40.0      100.0
5. Tr-iciog  ud Fore-ig  Soholor-hip        50.0     15.0      65.0      40.0      20.0     60.0       30.0      15.0     45.0      _          -       _           _                           120.b3      50.0      170.0
Subtotal 8                               285.1    516.3    801.4       499 1  1 030.3  1 537.4      543.1  1,020.1  1,563.2       389.7    574.3    964.0      _           1S      846.0   2,081.5    3,630.5   5,712.0
Subtotal A  B B                          572.0  21415.2  g87  23.8                           4                                                                   jj i   a449    21.482 6  ,,8 J   1u2,a.   L8832   727  L_ ,  L5S2ag   4.206_4  21  0
C. Cuntlohno-icr
Phy.lcaL (107 on Iteo A od 201 on B).       58.2    238.0    296.2       99.5    234.2    337.7       124.4    170.5    294.9       114.0    153.5    267.5      102.7    126.1    228.8       496.8       922.3   1,421.1
Fri-e                                       46.6    189.6    236.2      130.8    336.2    467.0       243.1    335.6    575,7       287.6    347.9    635.5      312.0    371.8    683.8   1,017.1    Lj5SI.1   2. 'ft.2
TOTAL C;,=2,7h6, ,,,5,3,2a,4~   ..23.    ,  57,0.4  , ~  ..a.5 36,4,,  _. J6 ,    O    ... 19 . 401. A ,5014   g03. 0 147    49 7 912.6   LUs,-              j5,         40._19.3
(30.80 TOTAL                               674.0  2,, 047.8  3,519.6  ,,,164.1  I442 8  4,4,2!.9   a7.L  69742,7        53-.3    1,2614  7,5575. 2  2,.                  7         2,474 6   521 .9 0!L    19,4  a i34O9



- 30 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      In pursuit of its objectives to shift Liberia's economic base
from the enclave sectors to agriculture and to spread the developmental
benefits beyond the modern sector to the rural poor, the Government has
embarked on a large rural development program. Several projects under
the program are already being implemented and many more are being prepared.
The success of this effort will, however, depend greatly on the availability
of efficient means of transport. Besides sufficiently high-standard trunk
roads connecting the major towns and ports, reliable secondary and feeder
roads linking agriculturally productive areas with the main arteries need
to be provided. Over the past five years the Government has emphasized
transport development, especially modernizing and maintaining the country's
eminently inadequate trunk road network. While this thrust will and needs
to be sustained, the time is opportune to accord secondary and feeder roads
development and maintenance their due emphasis. The proposed project is
designed inter alia to provide adequate resources for the construction,
improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 700 miles of priority feeder
roads in agriculturally productive areas.
4.02      The proper planning, development and maintenance of feeder roads,
on the other hand, require an efficient, well-staffed organization. This need
is not being satisfied under the current piecemeal, uncoordinated approach
involving several ministries and governmental agencies. The institution-
building component of the project therefore represents a major benefit, albeit
unquantifiable. It will assit in establishing the needed institutions and
train staff for feeder road development and maintenance thereby reducing the
waste of resources resulting from poor planning, inadequate construction
quality and neglect of maintenance.
B.   Economic Justification
4.03      The economic justification of the proposed project derives from
its role in reducing transport costs and produce spoilage in the influence
areas of the project roads, in contributing to the expansion of agricultural
production, in providing improving access to health, education and other
social amenities, and in institution-building. The project will directly
affect a rural population of about 300,000 with an average per capita income
at project inception of around US$100.
(i) Methodology
4.04      All the roads selected for construction and improvement are
located in areas of ongoing or planned agricultural development projects
(Annex I). Generally, under such circumstances, the economic justification
for feeder roads is integrated into that of the overall project, and any
separate analysis of the feeder roads is confined to their design standards,



- 31 -
the density of the network and their timing. Under the proposed project,
however, only the roads forming part of the Lofa County Agricultural Devel-
opment Project are part of an agricultural project which has secure financing
and a definite implementation schedule. The remaining roads, therefore, must
be justified on their own merits in the event, even though unlikely, that the
agricultural projects of which they are a part do not take place. It has been
assumed for the analysis of these remaining roads that more reliable, cheaper
and efficient transport, combined with improved access to extension services
and encouragement of farmer cooperatives, will induce farmers to put more
available land under cultivation. This assumption is strongly supported by
past experience: significant development has taken place within the influence
areas of the newly improved Lofa roads, even outside the target areas of the
agricultural project. The assumption is further supported by the findings of
a USAID-financed study on the impace of the Gbortala-Finutoli road.
4.05      The justification of the roads is applied to the following:
(a)  the detailed justification of each roads included
in the first-year program;
(b)  the justification of the entire four-year program; and
(c)  the criteria for selecting roads for the second and
subsequent years' programs.
(ii) Justification of First-Year Roads
4.06      The road-by-road justification for the first-year program has been
analyzed using as benefits road-user savings to non-agricultural traffic and
net incremental agricultural production (iap) attributable to road improvement
for existing roads and on net incremental agricultural production for new
roads. Reduction in produce spoilage is assumed insignificant for the three
major crops marketed -- rice, cocoa and coffee. Estimates of traffic and
vehicle operating costs (voc) used for calculating road-user savings were
based on actual traffic counts and operating cost data developed by MPW's
Planning and Programming Division in March 1978. Traffic on existing first-
year roads ranges between 13 and 45 vehicles per day (vpd); a reduction in voc
ranging between 20% and 40% is estimated to result from the road improvements.
Agricultural production estimates were provided by both the Management Unit
of the Lofa County Agricultural Development Project, the Liberian Produce
Marketing Corporation (LPMC) as well as extracted from the results of feasi-
bility studies for various agricultural development projects and a national
agricultural census. 1/ For existing roads 15% of the net iap has been used
for the economic analysis. These net incremental agricultural production
estimates were made with the assistance of the Lofa County Management Unit
and are those expected without the full-scale agricultural projects but
with increased acreage using traditional methods. For most roads these
1/   A detailed presentation and analysis of the agricultural data is included
in the National Feeder Road Study Report (Volume 3, Appendix 11) which
is available in the Project file.



- 32 -
factors translate into 1 to 2% of existing production at the time of full
increase. Owing to the uncertainty in predicting these factors the sensi-
tivity analysis shown below includes alternative assumptions for them. The
aggregate value of benefits for all first-year roads from road-user savings
to non-agricultural traffic and net incremental agricultural production
attributable to road works are estimated to be respectively US$130,000 and
US$227,000 in 1986, the year of full agricultural development. A population
of about 150,000 will directly benefit from the first-year road improvements.
A summary of the ERR's for the first-year roads and a sample calculation with
the relevant assumptions for typical existing and new roads is included in
Annex V.
(iii) Justification for Entire Feeder Roads Program
4.07      The justification for the second-, third- and fourth-year roads
followed a similar procedure to the above except that traffic data was
collected only on a sample of roads. Moreover, the data base for projecting
agricultural production was coarser than above. This is deemed acceptable
in view of the tentative nature of the road lists beyond the first year and
the uncertainties in the timing and hence the implementation schedule of
the agricultural projects. Moreover, the subsequent, more detailed justifica-
tion for the annual programs and the criteria for selecting roads beyond the
first year (para 4.08) will ensure that only justified roads will be included
in the project. On the basis of road-user savings to non-agricultural traffic
and net incremental agricultural production, the economic rate of return for
the entire four-year program, without the benefits of the full-scale agricul-
tural projects, is estimated at 17% over the 15-year assumed economic life
of the road investments. In view of the uncertainties indicated above this
return should be considered only indicative of a range estimated between 13%
and 20% (para 4.08).
(iv) Sensitivity Analysis
4.08      The results of the sensitivity analysis of project returns under
different assumptions of project costs and benefits are presented below. The
overall four-year program as well as its first-year component are justifiable
even under rather pessimistic assumptions. In general, existing roads give
an acceptable return based on voc reductions alone. New roads obviously
depend vitally on net increased agricultural production for their justifica-
tion. Therefore these roads have only been selected from areas with firm
plans for integrated agricultural projects such as the Zorzor District in the
Lower Lofa County. Also in the annual program justification special attention
would be given to updating the agricultural projections relating to them with
a view to adopting more modest design standards or eliminating them from the
program if found unjustifiable.



- 33 -
Sensitivity Analysis Results
ERR for            ERR for
First Year Program Entire Program
(a)  "Best" estimate                               19.4                  17
(b)  Best estimate with 5% for iap                 16.1                  14
(c)  Project costs + 20% (from lower - than -   16.5                     14
anticipated brigade productivity
(d)  Project benefits - 20%                        15.2                 13
(e)  Project cost + 10% and
Project benefits - 10%                        15.9                 13
(f)  Project benefit + 20% (from possible          23.1                 20
underestimation of iap and non-
agricultural traffic)
(v) Complementary Agricultural Investments
4.09      Although the project does not include complementary agricultural in-
vestments, most of the roads are or will be in areas of agricultural projects.
Given Government's seriousness about agricultural development and the decisive
role being played by the Bank and other external financing agencies, these
investments shouldd be forthcoming and it is not considered necessary to
directly include these measures under the proposed project or make their
provision a loan/credit condition.
(vi) Criteria for Selecting Roads beyond the First Year
4.10      The criteria for selecting roads to be included in the second, third
and fourth year programs will be:
(a)  Economic Rate of Return (ERR):  Roads will be selected
according to their ERR. An economic return of 10%
will be required for a road section to be included
under the program. The ERR will be calculated by
the procedure outlined in paragraph 4.06;
(b)  Needs of Agricultural Projects:  In selecting roads
for the annual programs, the needs of specific agri-
cultural projects being served by the roads or being
executed or planned will be considered; and
(c)  Geographic Coordination of Brigades:  Subject to
criteria (a) or (b), selection of roads for the
annual programs will take into consideration geo-
graphical factors to prevent the road brigades
having to travel long distances.
The list of roads included in the tentative second, third and fourth years'
programs will be used as the basis for selecting roads, but roads not in-
cluded in these lists will be considered if warranted by the Government's



- 34 -
rural development plans. During negotiations the Government confirmed its
agreement with the above criteria for selecting the project roads beyond
the first year program.
C.   Distribution of Project Benefits
4.11      Farmers in the project's influence area and the Government would
be the major beneficiaries of the increased agricultural production generated
by the project. Typically, the major beneficiaries of transport cost reduc-
tions would be commercial transport owners/operators, parastatal agricultural
agencies which transport produce and agricultural inputs, the Government,
passenger car users and the rural communities in the areas of influence of the
proposed roads. It is expected that during the first round of distribution
most of the benefits will accrue to all but the rural communities. However,
given the competitiveness of the transport industry, some of the cost reduc-
tions to the commercial transporters will be passed on to the local communi-
ties in the form of reductions or slower increases in transport charges. This
transfer of benefits has already been exemplified by one of the roads improved
by the existing Lofa County Brigade, Foya-Kamara-Foya Custom road, where, with
the recent road improvement, transport charges per passenger on a mini-bus
plummeted from US$1.50 to US$0.50. Increased agricultural production will
benefit both farmers by increasing their incomes and the Government by addi-
tional revenues from produce taxes.  The Government and parastatal agricul-
tural agencies will also return some of their benefits to farmers in the form
of improved extension services. More important than any quantifiable benefits
to the rural communities is, however, speeding their integration into the
monetized economy and the access to the country's developmental benefits which
the link with the country's main road network will promote.
D.   Project Risks
4.12      The main project risks would be (a) MPW's failure to develop the
necessary administrative capacity to execute the project on schedule and
(b) failure of the brigades to attain the productivity levels assumed. Staff
training and retention as well as the quality of technical assistance there-
fore becomes critical. Government indicated its strong commitment to these items
during negotiations. Additionally these items will be monitored closely
during project implementation.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the following items were agreed upon with the
Government and specified as covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(a) (i) a first year program (para. 3.04), and (ii) to submit
the annual programs for Bank approval three months before
the scheduled start to works for that year (para. 3.26);



- 35 -
(b) the design standards for the project roads (para. 3.05);
(c)  (i) arrangements for maintaining the project roads and
commitment to take all administrative, technical and
financial steps to maintain the project roads and an
additional 200 miles of selected roads to fixed standards,
and (ii) not later than May 31, 1979 making the Ministry
of Local Government responsible for the routine maintenance
of the project roads (paras. 3.07, 3.08 and 3.29);
(d) to construct two workshops and two office buildings
for the field brigades and have them in operation not
later than December 31, 1979 (para. 3.10);
(e) training arrangements for MPW personnel under the
project (para. 3.17);
(f) creation and staffing of the Feeder Roads Division
by July 31, 1979 (para. 3.26);
(g) establishment by June 30, 1979 of (i) a separate fund,
replenishable quarterly to a ceiling of US$150,000 for
the brigades under the project and (ii) a petty cash
system to a ceiling of US$15,000 per quarter for each
field brigade (para. 3.28); and
(h) criteria for selecting roads to be included under the
second, third and fourth years program (para 4.10).
5.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) feeder roads maintenance, planning, engineering and
construction along the lines indicated in paras.
2.11, 2.13, 2.14 and 2.16 respectively;
(b)  arrangement for attaching suitable staff to the Lofa
brigade by February 1979 (para. 3.13);
(c) the Terms of Reference for consultants (para. 3.14);
(d) arrangements for execution of technical assistance
to the Bureau of Transportation, MCIT, (para. 3.16);
(e) items to be monitored and the reporting procedures
to be adopted (para. 3.19);
(f) the implementation schedule for the project (para. 3.26);



- 36 -
(g) the partitioning of work between MPW and local consul-
tants and contractors and arrangements for supervising
the latter (paras 3.28 and 3.29); and
(h) procurement procedures for the project goods and
services (para 3.32).
5.03      With agreement confirmed on all the items listed in paragraph 5.01
above, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$10.7 million to
the Government of Liberia, for a 20 year term including a 5 year grace period.



-37 -                                  Annex I
Page 1
Liberia Feeder Road Project
First Year Roads V
Design
Road Name                     Type of             Class         Length    County
Improvement        Type           (mls.)
R/W - Bitijama                 New Construction         II             2.4       Lofa
H/W - Loboba - Lawalazu        New Construction         I              7.9         "
Lawalazu - Kugbamai            Reconditioning           I              7.8         "
J.awalazu - Duojamai           Reconditioning           II             4.2         "
Lawalazu Rd. - Galamai         Reconditioning           II             1.7         "
Voinjama - Vanema              Reconditioning           II             8.0         "
Selega - Kordadu               Reconditioning           II            6.8
Selega - Bakiedu               Reconditioning           II           11.5          "
Voinjama - Tobogizizu          Reconditioning           I            16.1
Off Tobogizizu Rd.-Bawomai    New Construction          II            3.0
Kahnplay - Sakolay             Reconditioning           II            6.6        Nimba
Kahnplay - Yehplay             Reconditioning           II            8.9
Kahnplay - Yola                Reconditioning           II            1.7
Lolay - Boapa                  Reconditioning           II            5.0          "
Kpairplay - Sangonplay         Reconditioning           II            3.2          "
Kpairplay - Duoboe             Reconditioning           II            4.2          "
Lolay - Vinnglay               Reconditioning           I            13.7
Lolay - Diaplay                Reconditioning           I            12.0
Compound II - Jomna            New Construction         I            35.0       Bassa
Compound II - Kparweetro
Town         New Construction         I            15.0          "
Harrisville - Marloetown                                II            6.0
1/ The first four roads will be improved by the           Total     180.7
existing Upper Lofa Road Brigade between
February and September 1979



- 38-                                                                 Annex I
Other Roads (tos.    3 * 4)                                                                                   Page  2
Road Nare.                     lIpe of               Ch1  s          L ttt    Cou nty
_____.____                    1' i.:.j ''W !!t__,__'I8t       , ivjy             _______
H    lorlela                Ree'-nditiouing            I               16.0       Loft
I- Tugu                          Reconditioning            1               15.0
Zenorlor,ai - K;psaksai         Re  nJitioning            it               4.0
Satkonedu - Kond3du              Recotiditioning           11               2.4
Other Roads to hv benti-         Reconditioning 4
fled by LCAPI'               New Conrtruct ion          11              20.0
Zorsor - Lilivu                  Reconditioning            it               5.0
Zorzor - Ye&la                   Reconditioning            11               4.0
borsor - Epayle - Gbanyci        Reconditioning            1                9.0
Salaye - Zolowo                  Reconditioning            1                8.0
TelemaL - Fayapolo               Reconditioning            11               2.0
Fisibu - Cooper Town             New Construction          1               12.0
Fasuma - Telemai                 Reconditioning            11               3;5
Wuomai - Budima                  New Construction          11               6.0
Zeekpei - Muzo                   New Construction          II              12.0
Zolowo - Fusawalazu              New Construction          11               7.0
Bokeza Rd. - Wuonai              Reconditioning            II              13.0
Bokeza Rd. - Kpasagazia          Reconditioning            11              11.0
Konia - Zigida                   New Construction          II               8.0
Nikabuzu - Auena                 New Construction          11               7.0
Bazievehn - Nikabuzu             1.., Construction         II               4.0
Other LCADP Project Area         Reconditioning &
Roads to be identified        New Construction           II              40.0
Behplay-Gbie-Bonneh              Reconditioning            II               3.4       Nimba
Diaplay - Yarlepula              Reconditioning            11               8.6
Sanniquelle-Kpayelepula          Reconditioning            II              14.3
Svakazu - Floweec                Reconditioning            II              10.3
Boapea (Intersection) -
Zorgowee                       Reconditioning            11               3.6
Swakazu - Bobaye                 Reconditioning            II               1.0
Zorgowee - Dulay                 Reconditioning            I               13.5
Zpolay - Guagortuo               Reconditioning            1                3.0
Mongoplay - Gbarplay             Reconditioning             I              14.4
Lapea 02 - Nuaplay               Reconditioning            it               1.8
Dol.y - Zi8hplav                 Reconditioning            11               2.4
Other Mads in hahn and
Saclapea Districts to be
identified for Ninba
County Agricultural
Project Area                                                             70
Reirlandeville - Dawein          Reconditioning             11              6.2        Bass,
farsua Town - Besch.             Reconditioning             11              7.0
Sayp .e Town - Dee.sr            New Construction           11             15.0
boglAy - Camephor YWao.          Reconditioning             11              6.0
Yarat,wn - Bedavin               ReconditfLninR             11             10.0
Other Fu-de In Distrl-t
No. 3                          New Construction                          1S.0
Mads 1II listrfrt lio. 4                                    16
and Fivercees i,rritory        New Constrcuttt,           11            110
Total 526.4
Grand Total 707.1



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
LIBERIA
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Draft Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
for Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Public Works
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Liberia, with the assistance of the World Bank
Group, is carrying out a four-year feeder roads construction and improvement
program.  The consulting services required to assist the Government in execut-
ing the project are outlined below.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purposes of the services are generally to assist the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW) to:
(a) establish a Feeder Roads Division within MPW's Bureau
of Construction (BOC);
(b) procure road equipment, tools, spare parts and supplies
for operations included in the project;
(c) prepare bidding documents for work to be done by
contractors and to supervise the work of these con-
tractors;
(d) implement a four-year program for construction, improve-
ment and maintenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads;
(e) undertake a training program for MPW staff including
road technicians, mechanics, equipment operators and
drivers through formal classroom training at Camp
Mechlin Training Center and on-the-job training in
the field, coordinated with the training program com-
ponent of the Third Highway Project which is being
financed by the World Bank;
(f) undertake technical and economic monitoring of the
project; and



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
(g) prepare a longer-term strategy with a second phase
program for feeder road construction, improvement and
maintenance.
III. SCOPE OF SERVICES
A.   General
3.        The consultant shall advise and assist MPW in the performance of
all technical, economic, accounting and administrative work required to obtain
the objectives outlined in Section II above.
B.   Establishment of Feeder Road Division (FRD)
4.        The consultant shall assist the MPW to establish a Feeder Road
Division within the BOC and provide it operational support for the duration
of the consulting services.
C.   Procurement of Equipment Supplies and Awards of Contracts to Domestic
Contractors
5.        The consultant shall assist the MPW in (a) preparation of bidding
documents, (b) bid analysis and the selection of suppliers and contractors,
and (c) reception of equipment, spare parts, tools and materials and super-
vision of work of contractors.
D.   Implementation of Feeder Road Program
6.        The consultant shall advise and assist MPW in the implementation
of the four-year feeder road construction, improvement and maintenance pro-
gram. They shall, inter alia, assist MPW's Planning Division in:
Preparing Detailed Annual Road Improvement and Maintenance Programs based on
lists of proposed roads received from the Interministerial Study Team.
Execution of Roadworks by ensuring (a) adequate efficiency and quality of
works, (b) adequate financial analysis and reporting of works, and (c) on-
the-job training for local staff.
Project Monitoring including analysis and reporting of (a) productivity and
costs of civil works carried out by small contractors, (b) quality of road
construction, improvement and maintenance and the rate of road deterioration,
(c) traffic flows and growth rates, (d) changes within the area of influence
of specific roads in population, agricultural activity, prices of imported
and exported goods and commodities, household budgets and social services,
and (e) information on vehicle operating costs and transport prices.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
E.   Training Local Personnel
7.        The consultant shall undertake a training program for road tech-
nicians, mechanics, equipment operators and drivers, using the facilities of
the training center at Camp Mechlin. The training program will consist of
both formal classroom training and practical training on-the-job.
F.   Long-Term Feeder Road Strategy and Second Phase Program
8.        The consultant will assist MPW's Planning Division with the relevant
inputs to examine further feeder road needs and maintenance requirements of
Liberia and advise on a long-term strategy that will include technical,
financial, personnel and institutional proposals. Related to the proposed
long-term strategy, the consultant will participate in the preparation of
a second-phase feeder road program.
IV. STAFFING
9.        The consultant's team shall be composed of:
1    Highway Engineer-Chief of Mission
1    Highway Engineer/Technician/Road Brigade Chief
1    Master Mechanic-Road Brigade Mechanic
1    Trainer
1    Agricultural Economist
1    Construction Expert
1    Construction/Financial Management Expert
10.  (1)  Highway Engineer (30 man-months) preferably with a minimum
of about 10 years experience with (a) at leat 3 years
experience of low cost road construction; (b) experience
of public works administration; and (c) personnel manage-
ment and training.
(2) Senior Civil Works Technician (24 man-months) preferably
with a minimum of 5 years experience in low cost roads
construction, improvement and maintenance, including the
management of direct labor road construction operations
and productivity control.
(3) Master Mechanic (24 man-months) preferably with a minimum
of 5 years experience of road construction operations in
developing countries including on-the-job training.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
(4) Trainer (24 man-months) preferably with a minimum of
5 years experience in training road technicians and road
foremen in developing countries, including both formal
classroom training methods and practical field training.
(5) Agricultural Economist (6 man-months-not continuous)
preferably with a minimum of 5 years experience of develop-
ment studies, including transport studies, in developing
countries and a particular knowledge of rural development.
The detailed Terms of Reference for the Construction Expert and the
Construction/Financial Management Expert are presented in Annex III.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
LIBERIA
The Domestic Contracting Industry
Recruitment of Advisors
1.        The Government of Liberia wishes to encourage the growth of a
domestic contracting industry to take part in their highway development
program. While it is likely that contracts for major construction work
will continue for the next few years to be undertaken by international
contractors, there is an increasing program of smaller civil engineering
works including the construction and improvement of minor roads which
could be executed by domestic contractors, at the same time giving them
opportunity to build up the necessary experience to enable them to tackle
large civil engineering works.
2.        As part of this program and with the support of the World Bank, the
Government wishes to obtain the services of two experts; one to be attached
to the Ministry of Public Works for a period of two years as a member of the
staff of the Programming and Planning Division to assist in preparing a pro-
gram of work suitable for domestic contractors, to advise on establishing
a method of classifying contractors by capacity and competence and on means
to assist contractor in building up their stock of equipment; and one to be
attached to the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment for a period
of about two years to develop capacity within the bank for approving and
monitoring loans to contractors and to assist domestic contractors in building
up competence in managing their business affairs.
3.        The expert to be attached to MPW should have experience in super-
vising contracts for road works in developing countries. He should be
familiar with the organization and operation of Government Public Works
Departments, with civil engineering contract procedures and with the appro-
priate road construction techniques.
4.        The expert to be attached to the L.B.D.I. should be experienced
in the management tasks of a contractor, in civil engineering, estimating,
and in financial control. He must be prepared to undertake the dual role
of controlling the disbursement and repayment of loans on behalf of the
Bank and providing advice and training for contractors in regulating their
financial affairs.
5.        A draft outline of terms of reference for the two experts are
given below:



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
A.   Expert for the Ministry of Public Works
He shall be attached to the MPW as a member of the staff of the
Programming and Planning Division with special responsibilities for the
following:
(a) preparing their work program for the next five years
indicating the nature and amount of work in the con-
struction, improvement, and maintenance of roads whiich
could be undertaken by contract, and the proportion
suitable for domestic contractors;
(b) preparing guidelines for a register of road contrac-
tors, graded according to their fields of competence
and capacity and he shall advise the MPW on means tp
keep such a register under periodic review; and
(c) advise on the creation of an equipment pool, from
which approved contractors can hire equipment;
(d) In addition, he will provide general advice to the
MPW in building up their organization for the plan-
ning, letting, and supervising of work by contract.
In their turn, the Ministry of Public Works will undertake to:
(a) prepare and publish a program for highway work over
the next five years indicating in general forms, the
nature and amount of work expected to be available
for contract;
(b)  initiate and operate a system for the registration
of contractors for the various operations of road
construction and maintenance; and
(c) provide a complement of appropriately qualified staff
for the planning, letting, and supervision of highway
contracts.
B.   Expert for Liberian Financial Institutions
(a) He shall assist approved Liberian financial institu-
tions in developing means to assess the credit-worthiness
of domestic contractors involved in road work, in pre-
paring the formal arrangements for such loans and in
arranging appropriate terms of repayment and in the
disbursement and recovery of loans to approved contrac-
tors;



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
(b) He shall advise existing domestic contractors and
domestic contractors wishing to undertake road works
on the organization of their financial affairs,
aiming to build up their competence in estimating,
tendering, and financial control;
(c) He shall advise the Liberian Government on the
practicality of arrangements to provide assistance to
domestic contractors, and should this be demonstrated
as desirable and practicable he shall assist such banks
in developing their facilities as required;
(d) He shall advise the Government on the need for an equip-
ment pool from whcih approved contractors can hire equip-
ment and shall assist in organizing such a pool;
(e) He shall plan and initiate such institutional training
as is required to provide both Government and domestic
contractors working in the highway field with competent
estimators, cost clerks, and financial supervisors; and
(f) He shall be available to assist the MPW in furthering
their arrangements for the employment of contractors in
the highway field.
In their turn, the participating financial institutions will under-
take to:
(a) provide suitably qualified staff to work alongside the
expert in order that they may assume as quickly as
possible responsibilities for the assessment of credit-
worthiness of domestic contractors and for the disburse-
ment and recovery of loans;
(b) assist in providing facilities for the training of
Government and contractors staff in estimating and in
financial control;
(c) in cooperation with Government seek to establish an
equipment pool from which approved contractors can
hire equipment;
(d) consult with the Ministry of Finance and with MPW in
preparing the conditions for approval and recovery of
loans to domstic contractors;
(e) provide suitable office accommodation, facilities and
local transport necessary for the expert in the dis-
charge of his duties.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
LIBERIA
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for a Position Paper on the
Reorganization of Transport Planning and Coordination
I.   Background
1.        Development of the transport sector needs improvement in planning
and coordination between different modes. Several different Ministries and
Government organizations have been involved in the sector: Ministry of
Public Works (MPW); Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Transportation (MCIT),
Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs (MPEA); National Port Authority
(NPA), Ministry of Justice, etc. Improvements in transport planning are
handicapped by the division of responsibility and lack of clarity of func-
tions, qualified personnel and funds.
2.        In the letter of July 16, 1977, the Government of Liberia agreed
to the principle that the responsibility for planning and coordination of
the transport sector should be entrusted to the MCIT, specifically to its
Bureau of Transportation (BT). It was also agreed that a Position Paper
should be prepared: first, clarifying the roles and field of responsibility
of the several organizations involved; second, outlining proposals for
changes, designed to improve efficiency and coordination; and third, setting
forth detailed proposals for the organization and staffing and training, and
the initial work program of the Bureau of Transportation with its expanded
functions.
II. Tasks of Transport Specialist
3.        The transport specialist should investigate related legislative,
institutional, financial and staffing problems and should present specific
recommendations on how to strengthen the Bureau of Transportation (MCIT)
and enable it to perform its integrated functions in transport planning and
coordination between different transport modes. MCIT is basically expected
to coordinate the work of the related ministries and other entities concerning
the sector, and not to exercise any executive power on transportation activi-
ties for which the related ministries have executive responsibility. The
paper is expected to be prepared within two months.
4.        The expert will, in close coordination with MCIT, MPW, NPA, MF,
MPEA and other Government entities:



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
(a) investigate present laws, in particular the Act
adopting a New Transportation and Communications
Law (dated May 11, 1972) with regard to necessary
legislative changes needed to strengthen the
Bureau of Transportation in MCIT);
(b) prepare a new organization of the Bureau of Trans-
portation suitable for its new tasks: (i) coordi-
nation of transport planning for different modes;
(ii) participation in decision making on capital
investments in all modes; (iii) policy making and
regulations in road transport industry, (iv) regula-
tion of air transport, (v) participation in policy
making for ports and maritime affairs, and (vi) data
collection and overall analysis of the sector;
(c) explore, more specifically, whether new divisions
are needed (e.g. for ports and maritime affairs,
central planning division, etc.) in addition to the
present two divisions (Land Transport and Civil
Aviation);
(d) establish detailed requirements for experts needed
to assist BT (profiles, time requirements, etc.)
including terms of reference for each expert;
(e) establish requirements for additional local staff
for BT to be trained on-the-job by the experts;
(f) prepare estimated additional budgetary requirements
for MCIT in regard to additional local staff;
(g) prepare a detailed work program, allocation of staff
and cost estimates for the reorganized Bureau of
Transportation indicating an optimal and a minimum
program.



48 -                                Annex V
LIBERIA                                 Page 1
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Summary Economic Analysis
A Sample ERR Calculation for First Year Road
(a) Existing Road
Road Name:                        Bahn to Biadatuo           County:       Nimba
Road Length:                      10 miles                   District:    Bahn
Approximate Influence Area:       90 square miles            Population
served:       13,700
Pop. growth: 2% p.a.
Agricultural Holdings:            1,800                       Road condition: Poor
Estimated cost of works           US $ 95,000
Traffic Analysis
without      Passenger cars&Taxis'       Pick - ups              Trucks
Project
-    us e 28 8/mi         US e 31.I/mi      I  US e 82.0/mi        !
Iwith Project   I    US e 18.3/mi          US e 20.1/mi      I US e 49.3/mi         i
Annual                Annual                Annual
Year         ADT  IIAOT  IIAOT  IIIA
I       IVoc. Savingsl         IVoc. Savings!        IVoc. Savings!   T
1980           13      4,982   .1    3       1,193         4        4,774        10,949
1981      !   14  !   5,366    1    4  1   1,591    !   4   !   4,774    !  11,731
1982          14       5,366          4      1,591          5       5,968        12,925
1983      I   15  !   5,749    !    5  !   1,989    !   5   !   5,968    !  13,706
,  1984   ,   17       6,515          6      2,387         5        5,968        14,870
!     1985       !   19  !   7,282    i    7  !  2,785    !   6   !   7,161    !  17,228
1986          20       7,665          8      3,183         6        7,161       18,009
1     1987       !   22  !   8,431    !    8  !   3,183    !   6   !   7,161    ! 18,775
1988          23       8,815          9      3,581         6        7,161       19,557
1989      !   25  !   9,581    !   10  !   3,978    1   7   1   8,355    ! 21,914
1990          26  j   9,965          11      4,376         7   1  8,355         22,696
1991      !   28  !  10,731    !   11  !   4,376    !   7   !   8,355    1 23,462
1992          29      11,114         12       4,774        8       9,548        25,436
1993      !   30  !  11,498    !   13  !   5,172    1   8   !   9,548           26,218
,  1994   !   31      11,881         13      5,172         9      10,741        27,794
1/  Truck traffic used in the analysis excludes those used for agricultural inputs or
produce.



MARKETABLE PRODUCTION
IN INFLUENCE AREA
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
(a) Coffee
Total  Incremental Cultivated Area (Acres)            0       10     20      50    100    105    110    115    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
Total  Incremental Production (100 lbs.)              0        0      0       0       3.5    7.0   17.5   35.0   36.8   38.5   40.3   42.0   42.0   42.0   42.0
Total  Incremental Production ($ 1000)                0        0      0       0       4.2    8.4   21.0   42.0   44.2   46.2   48.4   90,4   50.4   50.4   50.4
Total  Incremental Production costs ($ 10003          0        1.1    1.5    4.3    7.5    6.0    6.3    6.6    6.9    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.6
Total Net Value of Incremental Production             0      - 1.1  - 1.5  - 4.3  - 3.3    2.4   14.7   35.4   37.3   39.6   41.8   43.8   43.8   43.8   43.8
($ 1000)
(b) Cocoa
Total  Incremental Cultivated Area (Acres)            0        5     10      30      40      50     52      55      58      60     60      60      60      60      60
Total  Incremental Production (1000 lbs.)             0        0      0       0       0       1.5    3.0    9.0   12.0   15.0   15.6   16.5   17.4   17.4   17.4
Total  Incremental Production ($ 1000)                0        0      0       0       0       1.5    3.0    9.0   12.0   15.0   15.Q   16.5   17.4   17.4   17.4
Total  Incremental Production costs ($ 1000]          0        0.5    0.7    2.5    2.5    3.0    2.7    2.9    3.0    3.1    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Total Net Value of Incremental Production             0     - 0.5  - 0.7  - 2.5  - 2.5  - 1.5    0.3    6.1    9.0   11.9   12.6   12.6  .12.6   12.6   12.6                >
($ 1000)
[c) Upland Rice
Total  Incremental Cultivated Area (Acres)            0      15      25      50    100    150    200    220    250    270    275    300    300    300    300
Total  Incremental Production (1000 lbs.)             0       15     25      50    100    150    200    220    250    270    275    300    300    300    300
Total  Incremental Production ($ 1000)                0        3.0    5.0   10.0   20.0   30.0   40.0   44.0   50.0   54.0   55.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0
Total  Incremental Production costs ($ 1000)          0        2.4    4.0    8.0   16.0   24.0   32.0   35.2   40.0   43.2   44.0   48.0   48.0   48.0   48.0
Total Net Value of Incremental Production             0        0.6    1.0    2.0    4.0    6.0    8.0    8.8   10.0   10.8   11.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
($ 1000)
Total Net Value of Incremental Production             0     - 1.0  - 1.2  - 4.8  - 1.B    6.9   23.0   50.3   56.3   62.3   65.4   68.4   68.4   68.4   68.4
(5 1000)   '                                                                                                                       wIc



- 50 -
Annex V
Page 3
ERR Calculations
Road Investments                     Benefits
(US$)
Periodic                Voc 1/      Agric.
Capital  Maintenance             Savings      Production       Total
Year                                                         x 0.15
1980        83,000                            10,950              0         10,950
1981                                          11,730           -150         11,580
1982                                          12,930           -180         12,750
1983                                          13,710           -720         12,990
1984                                          14,870           -270         14,600
1985                      20,000              17,230          1,035         -1,735
1986                                          18,010          3,450         21,460
1987                                          18,770          7,545         26,315
1988                                          19,560          8,445         28,005
1989                                          21,910          9,345         31,255
1990                      20,000              22,700          9,810         12,510
1991                                          23,460         10,260         33,720
1992                                          25,440         10,260         35,700
1993                                          26,220         10,260         36,480
1994                                          27,790         10,260         38,050
ERR with voc alone  =  14.5%
ERR with voc + 15% A   Agric.  =  17.7%
FYBr = 13.2%
1/   To non agriculture related traffic



- 51 -
Annex V
Page 4
(b)   New Road (Class C)
Road Name:  Wuomai - Budima Rd.                   County:  Lofa
Road Length:  5.1 miles                           District: Zorzor
Approximate Influence Area:  40 sq.miles
Construction Costs: US$ 42,000
Maintenance Costs: US$ 1,770 p.a.
Assumptions on Agricultural Production
1.    The estimated incremental acreage put under production based
on figures proposed by the Lofa County Agricultural Project Unit is
as follows:
- 160 acres of coffee by 1984
-   60 acres of cocoa by 1985
- 100 acres of rice by 1984.
2.    Production will be by mostly traditional methods but with some
proportion of high yield seeds. Production costs and yields are
estimated to be as follows:
Upland
Riee           Coffee          Cocoa
Production Costs (US$/acre)      160              132            115
Yield (lbs/acre)               1,000              350            400
Net Value-/ (US$/lb)             0.22             1.20           1.00
1/ f.o.b. - transport - handling charges



Net Agricultural Production                           1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989-  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
1. Coffee
Cumulative Additional Cultivated Area (Acres)          20      40     80    140    150    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160
Additional Production (1000 lbs.)                       0       0       0     7.0   14.0   28.0   49.0   52.5   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0
Additional Production ($ 1000)                          0       0       0     8.4   16.8   33.6   58.8   63.0   67.2,  67.2   67.2   67.4   67.2   67.2   67.2
Production Costs ($ 1000)                              3.9'   5.9   11.7   18.5   19.5   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3   20.3
Net Value of Incremental Production ($ 1000)    - 3.9   -5.9  -11.7  -10.1   -2.7   13.3   38.5   42.7   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9   46.9
2. Cocoa
Cumulative Additional Cultivated Area (Acres)          10      15     30      60      60      60     60      60      60      60     60      60      60      60      60
Additional Production (1000 lbs.)                       0       0       0      0      4.0    6.0   12.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0
Additional Production ($ 1000)                          0       0       0      0      4.0    6.0   12.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0
Production Costs ($ 1000)                              1.0    1.0    2.2    4.5    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Net Value of Incremental Production ($ 1000)    - 1.0   -1.0  -2.2   -4.5   -2.0    0                 6.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0
3. Rice
Cumulative Additional Cultivated Area (Acres)          20      40     80    100    110    120   120    120    120    120            120    120    120    120    120
Additional Production (1000 lbs.)                      20      40     80    100    110    120   120    120    120    120            120    120    120    120    120
Additional Production ($ 1000)                         4.0    8.0   16.0   20.0   22.0   24.0  24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0
Production Costs ($ 1000)                              3.2    6.5   13.0   16.2   17.8   19.4  19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4    19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4   19.4
Net Value of Incremental Production ($ 1000)           0.8    1.5    3.0    3.8    4.2    4.6   4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6             4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6
Total Net Value of Incremental Production ($ 1000)   -4.1   -5.4  -10.8  -10.8   -0.5   17.9  49.1   65.3   69.5   69.5    69.5   69.5   69.5   69.5   69.5
ERR for 0.5 x Net Value of Incremental Production  -  24.7                                                                                                         OOQ



Cost/Benefit Stream for Feeder Roads Program
(a)   First-Year Program-
Year                            1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Capital Costs (US$1000)         1,020   -       -       -       -       -      -        -      -        -       -       -      -       -       -
L   Maintenance Costs(US$1000)    36.0  36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0
Benefits (US$1000)               74.4  72.8   50.6   66.2  -19.0   30L4   537.0  642.3  671.8  502.6  693.5  711.0  718.3  732.9  742.8
I/I
(b)   Overall Prograu- 
Capital Costs (US$1000)         1,020  1,540  2,250  2,250   -          -      -        -      -       -        -       -      -       -       -
L   Maintenance Costs (US$1000)   36.0   44.0   52.0   60.0  60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0
Benefits (US$1000)               74.4  149.2  256.7  340.5  180.2  456.7  1033.1  1776.6 27010  2846.5 3252.7 3373.3 4382.7 4755.1 5169.3
ERR for First-Year Program  -  19.4
ERR for Overall Program  -  16.7
1/    Excluding roads included in ongoing Lofa County Rural Development Project.
(biC
c1



- 54 -
ANNEX VI
LIBERIA
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.   Phase 1.  Domestic Construction Industry Study,
International Executive Service Corps, April 1977
2.   National Feeder Roads Study, Inception Report,
Inter-Ministerial Feeder Roads Study Team,
Government of Liberia, June 1977
3.  National Feeder Roads Study, Draft Final Report,
Inter-Ministerial Feeder Roads Study Team,
Government of Liberia, March 1978.
4.   Full Report, Follow-up Appraisal Mission for
Proposed Feeder Roads Project, A. Zampilloni,
Consultant, Sauti Engineers, July, 1978.



LIBERIA
M. P. W. Organization Chart 1976
L   MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS RE L
DEPUTY MINISTER FOR  |EACDEPUTY MINISTER FORRN
ADMINISTRATION                                     IC TECHNICA SERVICES    I
R i   COORDINA              ~BUREAU                BUREAU                 SERVICES BUREAU  I L BUREAUI
A  1    1    2  Q               DN     I   I  ~~~~~~~~CONSTRUCTION| |TEHIA                    PRGMIN
SECRETARIAT  |            SECRETARIAT |           ERETARIAT |       _ SERETARIAT                TRA NSPOERTN 
-| FINANCE    I        |CONSULTANTS] |        | SULPTURE ]               ENGINEERING |         TRANSPORTATION|
COMPLEX ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ &ECNOI
LlACCOUNTS;            HIGHWAY      I         OFFFICE       I         ACTEUR|            1PLANNING
MAINTENANCE        H   CO_ORDINATOR I                                       IE ~
BUDGETTEHIPHYSICAL     DATA BANT
CODEE   2 DISTRICT                                   SLSANNING
& ZONICNGCE  LLB
C_LLEGAL AUTHISOILS TEST &   I
I       I      _  ~~~~BUILDING        I RESEARCH LAB.I! 
|  .       I  ~~~MOBILE    I     _CONSTRUCTION
I CUSTODIAL   I           EQUIPMENTI
I   I  .     I                       |             u    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUB LIC |
SHOPS               WOOD WORK  |            BUILDINGSI
PROCUREMAENT                N  I   BUREA  CON COMPLEX
H   & SUPPLIES
IEQUiPMEN |           
I  .                   m    SERVICE      I                       | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TECHNICAL 1 ITECHNICAL7
I SHIPPIN          CODE                          SE                                   | -EASSISTANT  | |ASSISTANTI
10COLLEGIAL AUTHORITY                                        IC/E          I IC/E & L. LB.I
INTRA -BUREAU CONTROL
World Bank -18302






IBRD 1397 1
t ' " ) > > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i SoAoun                                                                                            m    A / I et.-*1,,
+   j   t   g/    /     Kon    s                    K~~~~~~~~~~
- . ,' /COUNTY %waSf r liZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J0  
s - : < J4__7 __ 7<  X~~~t-r ,l   r 
- - a 1/ X z 8 0 7 ~~~~~~~ t r 8~
,2 N   T  COUNTY;WW>                       =-;              g, Gbafl~~>  g L '  / i
; ,Tolp=,mo <4i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fN btro\a- ir*     e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tooloValMa '-  \\Miir(5p / 4oitoO  ONG  81rpihWa P ro j |
L OFA                        z  BSA  + d, ,
/~~~~~~~~~~~ a.,, 61                                                 COUNT 0RAND bEE OUNYwx  es
g~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                  (.Umrwd bwor (%  woo/  
LlBERlA                 f-                XJ                   ,<J                  SedepoO {5  ,0"/\           jN  B9-  I
FEEDER~~~~~~Mi.( B.-I. PR JC                                  0        iffit N; SIOGUIY X,''5tT-^->t
mb.1 ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        ~        r 6-   6       r. rnmlf,           D- GIVUi-
0",~~~~~~~~~~~~ G6                                                                                       ,. "  ^M>;n    n 
MATV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA~~~~' IDRLAi S-  ;rC; 
",c ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~                  , CUN  OUNTY                      l; k
I ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~    ~     ~      G COUNTY, -
'~~                                                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z...-.
-~~~r                                                                         KItOMETeRS~~~~~~~
s~~~soergr_ttpi^:tt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S61                                                T.p.t _^lp
_r*W_ar/ rtbr*,Dr^wTt#tv~~~~~~~~~j~wi
m d _                                                                                   K^{.ER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vh
MON~~~~~~~~~~~~ E9"Rvt>



