Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10755
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI, RWANDA, ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDITS 1419-BU, 1420-RW, 1421-ZR)
JUNE 26, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Departmu
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Burundi franc        Rwanda Franc         Zaire
1983       US$1 = BuF 87        US$1 = RwF 87.0   US$1 = Z 25.9
1984       US$1 = BuF 119.7   US$1 = RwF 100.2   US$1 = Z 36.1
1985       US$1 = BuF 120.7   US$1 = RwF 101.3   US$1 = Z 49.9
1986       US$1 = BuF 114.2   US$1 = RwF 87.6   US$1 = Z 59.6
1987       US$1 = BuF 123.6   US$1 = RwF 79.7   US$1 = Z 112.4
1988       US$1 = BuF 140.4   US$1 = RwF 76.4   US$1 = Z 187.1
1989       US$1 = BuF 158.7   US$1 = RwF 79.9   US$1 = Z 381.4
1990       US$1 = BuF 171.3   US$1 = RwF 82.9   US$1 = Z 718.6
MEASUREMENTS
GWh          gigawatt hour        1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kV           kilovolt             1,000 volts
kW           kilowatt             1,000 watts
kWh          kilowatt hour        1,000 watt hours
MW           megawatt             1,000 kilowatts
MWh          megawatt hour        1,000 kilowatt hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDEGL           Banque de Developpement des Etats des Grands Lacs
CEPGL           Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands Lacs
EGL             Energie des Pays des Grands Lacs
EIB             European Investment Bank
ELECTROGAZ  Etablissement Public de Production, de Transport et de Distribution d'Eau,
d'Electricite et de Gaz (Rwanda)
FED             Fonds Europeen de Developpement/European Development Fund
IEC             International Electrotechnical Commission
REGIDESO        Regie de Distribution d'Eau et d'ElectricitE (Burundi)
SINELAC         Societd Internationale d'Electricitd des Pays des Grands Lacs
SNEL            Societe Nationale d'Electricite (Zaire)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
of DectN Ceneral
.atkn Evauatiom
June 26, L992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on BURUNDI, RWANDA, ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Project
(Credits 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on BURUNDI, RWANDA, ZAIRE - Ruzizi II Regi.onal Hydroelectric
Project (Credits 1419-BU, 1420-RW, 1421-ZR)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI, RWANDA. ZAIRE
IUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDITS 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
TABLE C7 CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   * . * * .* * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... . ... .
EVALUATION SUMMARY *  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
PART T: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THIE BANK'S 1'ERSPECTIVE
1.  Project Identity.1
2.  Backgroutd..1
3.       Project Objectives and Description .....  ...........  1
4.       Project Design and Organmton .....      .............  2
5.       Project Implementation  ......    .................  3
6.       Project Results .........    ....................  8
7.       Project Sustahiablity .......    .................. 10
8.       Bank Performance ........       .................. 10
9.       Borrowers' Performance .......     ................ 10
10.      Project Relationships .......    .................. 11
11.       Consulting Services .......................... 11
12.      Project Documentation and Data .....    ............. 12
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(As provided by SINELAC, without any changes by the Bank.) .13
PART Ell: COMMENTS BY SINELAC ON PART I .25
PART IV: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.       Related IDA Credits .......         ..........  34
2.        Project Timetable .................  35
3.        Credit Disbursements ..........        ........ 35
4.        Project implementation  .........      ........ 36
5.        Project Costs and FinanciDg ..................   37
6.        Project Results .................  39
7.        Status of Covenants ......       ...........  40
8.        Use of Bank Resources .........        ........ 45
9.        Mission Data .................  45
ANNEXES
Anne)- I Rate of Retun Analysis .46
Annex 2 Financial Statements of SINELAC .47
This document has a restricted distribution and may Se used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise - disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPI.ETION REPORT
BURUNDI . RWANDA. ZAIR'X
RUZrZI It REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDITS 1419-BU, 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Rcort (PCR) for the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelecric
Project for which three credits of SDR 13 million each to Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire were
apprvied on December 6, 1983. The credits were closed on December 31, 1989, three months
after the original closing date. The last disbursement was made on Sepmber 11, 1990; balances
of SDR 90,973, SDR 103,914 and SDR 103,078 were cancelled from tbe Burundi, Rwanda and
Zaire Credit accounts respectively.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and En-ergy Operations Division of
Country Department m of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation S-mmry, Parts I and
D) and the Sori6t6 Internationale d'Electricitd des Pays des Grands Lacs (SINELAC), executing
agency for the project (Part U). The Banque de D6veloppement des Etas des Grands Lacs
(BDEGL) also provided commenits.
Preparation of this PCR is based on information contained in the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, cosulta' progress and final
reports, correspondence in the project les and data furished by SINEAC.



- il. -
PROJECT COTPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI. RWANDA. ZaRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDITS 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
Eoiect Obiectives and DesrgdonQ
The main objective of the project was to expand the supply of electricity to Burundi, Rwanda
and the Kivu Provinces of Zaire 1/ so as to sustain economic growth in their industrij and commercial
activities and in their domestic sectors. Through creation of the Soci  Internationale d'Electricit6 des
Pays des Grands Lacs (SINELAC) and provision of financL. nd technical advisers, the p-oject was to
train manerial and technical staff from the power sector of the three countries. These objectives were
to be realized through (i) construction of the Ruzizi H hydrolectic plant consisting of an 11 m dam, a
powerhouse with two 13.3 MW generating units and space for a third unit, a switching staion, 15 km
of 110 kV transmission line and (Ci) provision of experts' services for engineering and construction
supevision, management strengthening, dam safety, t   and tariff stud es.
The Ruzizi H plant was placed in service nearly two years later than the date originally estimated
due to an issue over price revision which arose with the cri works contractor and geological problerms
(paragraphs 5.02 - 5.05). Dmring construction, far more of the local population wM adversely affected
than anticipated (paragraphs 5.06, 5.07).
Questions have arisen on shortfall in the turbines' contractuly guaranteed output and efficiency,
as well as cavitation and other hydraulic problems, but are now fixed (paragraph 5.08 and SINELAC's
comments on Part I as attached). While consulting serices had been foreseen to support SINELAC
during the initial plant start-up phase, liltte such assistance maewiized because of increases to civil
works costs (paragraph S.12). As a result, rogional network operatig procedures were not prepared and
other finding was sought to prepare SINELAC's prici  study.
A major issue arose concerning SINELAC's decision to set the sales price of power at a level
far below Its economic and fiancia cost (parphs 5.16-5.18). The Credits' closing date was not
extended and the remainng Credit balances canelled.
The project achieved its staied objectives, in that the power plant and its faciities have been
built substantially wihin cost esdmates. Delayed start-up of the plant did not have a major impact on
the economic growth of the r4on owing to the earlier tha  anticipated availabiity of additional energy
from Bwund's Rv ma plant and delays in carying out national nwork rehabiliton and expansion
works needod to use Ruzizi H's energy. However, the project had a negave effect on some of the
i/      At the time of project appraisa, the regional interconeacted networks supplied
Zaires Klvu province. In 1988, Zaire's adminim eaive boundaries were revised,
dividn the Kivu province into North Khiu, South Kivu and Maniema provinces.
Ihe regional network now supplies the two Kvus.



- iii -
surrounding population which was not adfiquately compensated for the loss of property. The second
objective, training managers and technical staff of the region was only partially achieved since the formal
training component was dropped; on-site training did however occur during the construction period for
technical staff (paragraphs 5.10 and 5.11). A tariff study was completed hut its recommendations were
not followed. Useful advice was provided b) a panel of experts on dam safety. The revisea IRR of the
project has been recalculated to be 2.5%, compared with an estmated return of 10%, due primarily to
a d&cision by SINELAC's statutory bodies to keep the sales price of electricity low in order to also
maintain low natioWal power tariffs.
S-xsta
The sustainability of the project depends on the technical and financial capacity of SINELAC
to operate and ma-intain the Auzizi IH plant. An inadequate sales price of power and excessive operating
costs are serious risks to sustainability. Sustainability of full benefits depends also on the three national
power companies and SINELAC reaching formal agreement on effective network operating practices.
Lessons Learned
The project was innovative in supporting interconnection of three national power networks and
common ownership of a quarter of the region's total generating capacity. The main lessons learned
pertain to making regional cooperation effective and efficient. First, SINELAC's capital and
organizational structures with the three Governments as shareholders and their wholly government-owned
pow_r companies as the sole clients as well as its tariffs put SINELAC in a difficult position when
national interests took precedence over the best interests of the company. An alternative capital structure
with private sector participation should have been examined, and the organizational structure should have
been conceived to avoid conflict between those interests. Also, an adequate tariff structure should '-ave
been established to allow the company to cover Its operating expenses. Second, it was expected that
issues of effective o2eration of the interconnected networks would be identified and addressed during the
project construction period. However, this was w' the cse; more than two years after the plant was
placed in service, there is still no formal agreement on operatig principles and procedures. Increased
attention during project preparation to the operational issues wculd probably have expedited formal
agreement on network operating rules ad avoided the outage problems which have ocurred. Third, the
Ruzizi H project undertook major construction on the Rwanda-Zaire border in a densely populated area
of subsistence farming. A major construction project in such an area must have its ecological and social
impact assessed by specialists early in the project cycle and provide for adequate compensatory actions.
Finally, the project created a multinational enterprise which required technical and managerial support
during its transition from construction uni to opeaing company. Technical assistance had been
foreseen, bu- was reduced or terminated prematurely owing in large part to increases in the costs of other
components. As a result, important questions remain unresolved. Where such assistance is critical, its
funding should not be reallocated.
Main Observations by SINELAC
In addition to preparing Part H of this PCR, SINELAC provided extensive comments on the
Bank's Part I. These are attached to Part II and summarized below. SINELAC pointed out that
comprehensive actions have already been taken to correct most of the shortcomings mentioned in the
Bank's report. This related mainly to (i) equipment performance where SINELAC's decision to operate
the turbines at low load has brought their output, capacity shortfill and cavitation noises within normal
limits; (U) electricity price which will be increased to SDR 0.05/kwh before the end of June 1992, as a
first step to bring it closer to the long-run marginal cost (LRMC), as agreed upon with the Bank and
other donors; (iii) efforts to reduce technical asistance cost through the use of the services of national



- iv
electticity companies and local expetse to replace cosdy foreig consultants, which however, could be
used on a punctual basis as the need arises; (lv) acdoins to bring receiables down to a reasonable level
by proposing that pnaldes be biposed on al bills not paid within 90 day3. SIELAC also pointed up
gaps in the project preparation studies regarding the instutional aspect, and hidicat  that discussions
are in progress for the three naonal power compaies wo sign agree   with it covering operation of
the network arrangements for perational coordiaton nr energy interchanges amon the companies.
Finally, SINELAC insisted th the method of payment of bills be anded to apply the exchange rate
of the day of payment rather than the rate of exchange provided by the Central Bank on the day of billing
which, due-to considerable devaluation of local currencies, may jeopardize its financial equilibrium.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI. RWANDA. ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDITS 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT RE=IERQWTHIE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Eroject Identity
Projert Name *uzizi H Regional Hydroelectric Project
Credit Nos.   :1419-BU, 1420-RW, 1421-ZR
RVP Unit      Africa Region Country Department m
Countries     Bumndi, Rwanda, Zaire
Sector        Energy
Subsector     Power
2.     Backg=nd
2.1    The precedent for cooperation among the countries of the Great Lakes Region ai was well
established for the energy sector. The three countries shared an interconnected power network since
the 1950s, and in 1976, they created Energie des Pays des Grands Lacs (EGL) to promote joint
energy development and to prepare a long-term development plan to supply electricity to the region.
It was recognized that the rivers which form the borders of Rwanda and Zaire offered the greatest
potential for hydroelectric development in the region.
2.2    Following the two petroleum shocks of the 1970s and unrest at the end of that decade ir.
neighboring countries linked to the region's supply of energy, the demand for commercial energy
grew rapidly. Growth in the demand for electricity from 1977 to 1981 averaged about 10% per
amnum as the Governments took steps to improve the industrial and commercial sectors. At the time
the Ruzizi H project was appraised in March 1983, less than two percent of the region's population
of 13 million had access to electricity. Demand forecasts predicted continued high growth rates with
the appearance of a deficit of energy beginning in 1987. EGL proposed to build the Ruzizi II plant
to avoid such a deficit and meet the region's needs through the mid 1990's.
2.3    At the time of project appraisal, the Bank Group had financed only one project in the power
sector in the three countries, the Zaire Shaba Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) in the amount of
US$19 million.
3.     Project Objectives ad Descr
3.1    Pro  Objetves. The main objective of the project was to expand the supply of electricity
to Buundi, Rwanda and Zaire's Kivu provinces so as to sustain economic growth in their industrial
and commercial activities and in their domestic sectors. Through creation of the Societe Internationale
Z/     For the purposes of this report, the "region refers to Burundi, Rwanda and the two
Kivu provinces of Zaire.



d'Electricitd des Pays des Grands Lacs (SINELAC) and provision of financial and teclnlcal advisers,
the project was to train managerial and technical staff from the power sector of the three countries.
3.2   Paoect D p criDtion. The projeat consisted of the following elements:
(1)   Construction of an 1 Im high dam; an overflow spillway and two gm x 6.5 m sluice
gates; a 500 m unel 6 m in diameter; a 50 m steel penstock; a powerhouse with
two 13.3 MW generatin, units and space for a third unit; a switching station; 15 km
of 110 kV transmission line; local access roads; and staff housing.
(2)   Provision of consulting services to periodically review dam design, to supervise
construcuon, to initially ope-ate and maintain the facility and to provide practical
training for managerial and technical staff of SINELAC.
(3)   Studies for a regional training center and to determine the sales price of electricity.
4.     Project Design and Organization
4.1    The feasibility study and detailed engineering for a 40 MW plant was financed by the
European Development Fund (FED) and carried out by a joint venture of two well known
international consultants with local experience. Ibis study had two wealnesses in that (i) certain
adverse geological features were not detected during the engineering studies and later contributed to
execution delays (paragrapb 5.03) and (ii) inadequate attention was given to the impact of the project
on the livelihood of the population in the immediate area (paragraphs 5.06 and 5.07). Earlier
involvement of the panel of dam experts and more diligent application of the Bank's guidelines on
resetlement might have avoided these problems.
4.2    The project was innovative in supporting intrconnection of three national networks and
common ownership of a quarter of the region's total generating capacity. It had a clear conceptual
foundation, as the least cost source of power supply to thre three countries. It is questionable.
however, whether there was ful understanding of the operadonal issues and opportunities for
effective cooperation which resulted from interconnection. It is now clear that operating rules
governing the relationship between SINELAC and the three national power companies are needed to
ensure stable operation, particularly as peak demand is approaching the total generating capacity of
the interconnected system. Formal agreement has not yet been reached on these rules, although
informal arrngements have worl -'d satisfactorily in the early stages of operation. It would have been
usefiul to provide for expert's .w vices to advise on these aspects well before the power plant *as put
into operation. SINELAC, however, advised ibat discussions are in progress on these questions
4.3    The project was timely, as evidenced by the fact that Ruzizi II operated at maximum capai sly
only one year after being put in service lI. This relatively high loading was due to the two->ear
1      nThe power station was placed in service in June 1989, and between July 1989 and
January 1990, its peak monthly output was 26-28 MW compaired to a nominal
capacity of 28.4 MW. Between July 1990 and January 1991, peak output ranged
between 29 and 31 MW.



-3 -
delay in placing the station in service and to breakdowns or maintenance shutdowns of other plants
within the regional interconnected network.
4.4    The question of the most suitable framework for the implementation of the project was
debated at length by the Governments concerned. While a eegional energy entity, EGL, existed, its
mandait was to study and promote energy development. In order sO have an entity fully empowered
to construct and operate the Ruzizi II facilities, it was agreed to create a multinational public
enterprise, the Socidtd Internationale d'Electricitw des Pays des Grands Lacs, SINELAC. The
Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire each own one-third of the company, with the three
national power companies responsible for contributing their government's share of SINELAC's
capital. Capital contributions were constantly in arrears owing to the d. ficult financial situations of
the three companies, and all three were forced to obtain government funas to mew their obligations.
SINELAC's proposal to impose penalties on bills not paid within 90 days so as to bring receivables
down to an acceptable level is expected to improve it financial situation and would reduce the
pressure on government funding.
4.5    Day-to-day operations of the company were entrusted to a Management Committee of three
members (one from each country) headed by a General Manager. The Baard of Directors, which was
empowered to supervise the Management Committee and decide on company policy had six
members, which in most cases consisted of representatives from each of the national power companies
and ministries responsible for energy. SINELAC was also governed by a General Assembly,
consisting of the three Ministers of Energy with powers over appointment of the General Manager,
Board of Directors and kev financial staff, and approval of SINELAC's budget. In the early
preparation stage, the Bank questioned the need for a General Assembly on the grounds that it was
redundant and would serve to politicize the decision making process. The General Assembly was
nonetheless supported by the three Governments as they considered it a normal part of the
organizational structure of an entity like SINELAC and an oppornity for socioeconomic integration
of the three member countries. During project execution, the General Assembly did intervene in
matters in which it had no legal jurisdiction, such as construction contract revisions (paragraph 5.05)
and setting the sale price of Ruzizi U's power (paragraph 5.17), at times puttlng national concerns
above the best interest of the company. In spite of attributes which made the project potentially
interesting to the private sector (competitive cost of electricity, pricing to achieve a 10% return on
investment), private sector participation was not considered for the project. Interests might have been
more balanced had the capital structure or operation of the plant included private sector participation.
5.     WI=ec lanlemetation
5.01   The Credit became e  ctdve on August 30, 1984, ater one postponement of the limit date.
The conditions precedent to Credit effectiveness were numerous and relatively complex, so the delay
was a reasonable one. Eight contracts were let for works and equipment, with IDA financing the one
for civil works. The European Development Fund financed hydraulic and erernal electrical
equipment, turbines and engineering design and supervision. The Ihlian Goverament financed the
generators and powerhouse electrical equipment. A loan was obtained from the Banqe des Etats des
Pays des Grands Lacs (BDEGL) for housing. Local funds for civil works and technical assistance
were to have been provided by the three Governments, however, they obtained financing from the
European Investment Bank to cover these items. It had been planned that Ruzizi U would be placed
in service in April 1987, about four years after the issue of dte first bidding documents. In fact.



-4-
operation started about 28 monthu later (paragraphs 5.03,5.04). Planned and  tal dates for
procurement and execution of worlk are comipbred in Table 4 o; Part m of this report.
5.02    rie Revision  Bids received on the EDA-fnaced civil works were well below costs
estimates; the base contract price of the winning bid was US$30.1 million compared to an appraisal
estimate of US$47.5 million. The contract with the winnin> bidder specified five currencies of
payment-US dollars, Italian lire, Burundi and Rwanda francs and zaires. At the time of contract
negotiation, the civil works contractor expressed concem that the September i983 devaluation of the
zaire currency (88% Ais-1-vis the US dollar) might deprive the company of sufficient zaires to meet
its local labor costs. Just after contract signature, a formal request was made by the contractor to
amend the price adjustment formulae. While this request was under consideration, it became apparent
that the formulae did not distinguish between the various currencies in which the prices were to be
paid and that a correction formula which would prevent movements of local and foreign currency
from impacting on each other had been omitted. The result of the zaire devaluation was to
undercompensate the contractor in local currency, but to overcompensate him in foreign currency to
the extent that the contractor covered his local currency deficit and obtained additional windfall profits
in foreign currency. The contractor withdrew his request to amend the formulae and requested
paymema on the basis of a literal interpretation of the price adjustment formulae and his own definition
of the labor input index. As a result, less than eighteen months after the start of works, the base
price of the civil works contract had risep by 43%.
5.03   Discussions ensued which were complicated by the need for unforeseen works due to
geological problems. Results of drillings made in late 1985, 1id not confirm earlier assumptions by
the consulting engineer concerning the characeristics of the rock on which the power plant was to
be constructed. Changes were also made in tho design of the regulation structures and the location
of the water intake. These additional works represented 18% of the value of the base contract.
5.04 Relations deteriorated between, on one side, SINELAC and its consulting engineer and, on
the other, the civil works contactor since the latter was not paid the full amounts requested.
Management, logistics and transportio problems arose and a delay of about 16 months with respect
to the inidal contractual dates was proposed by the contractor. Delays in the civil works were
aiNecting other contracts, and SINELAC was obliged to stock mateials and equipment in Europe at
its own expense. By September 1986, the effective increase to the initial contrat cost as claimed by
the contractor was 277%. With the Bank's agreement, SINELAC retained a prominent European law
. to advise on the merits of its position with regard to application of the price adjustment formulae
and on future discussions with the contractor. The opinion, based on similar cases, concluded that
the intention of the parties was that the price adjustment foct,vae cover the real increases of the
contractor's costs without yielding exeeptional profits, and that the contractor had, in fact, recognized
the need to amend the formulae under other circumstances.
5.05 After issuance of the opinion, discussions resumed between SINELAC and the contractor
which resulted in (i) agreement on revised prices in line with the contactor's real and anticioated
costs, (ii) a reduction in the lengthened construction period, (iii) avoidance of costly arbitration and
(iv) avoidance of surpassing the 20% limit on additional worls which would have required
renegotiation of unit prices. The negotiated solution brought civil works costs within 6 % of appraisal
estimatec. While the Bank found that the agreemes reached were satisfactory, SINELAC's Board.
under pressure from the General Assembly, refused to arxept them on the grounds that the total cost
was excessive. The Bank communicated the results of its review of the problem to SINELAC's



Board and requested that they reconsider approval, which they did, favorably. Tbe price revision
imAe would probably have been avoided if the bidding docment had contained a separate price
revision formula for local costs, and if cleae directives had been given at a preo-bid meeting as to
the official source of the labor index.
5.06   EMroaton, Construction also had a far greater impact on the lives of the surrounding
population than had been anticipated. The Staff Appraisal Report summaized the ecological impact
study of the final prnject design document stating that the project wm a run-of-the-river scheme with
no appreciable flooding and that compensation would be paid for 'the removal of about 30 dwellings
housing 200 persons, which would require relocation to provide space for construction activities."
According to the Project Agreement, SINELAC was required to "take all necessary steps to acquire
land and rights in respect of land." A condition of credit effectiveness was receipt by the Bank of
proof that the land and rights were under the ownership and control of SINELAC. The Bank was
satisfied with receipt of documents that confimed the transfer of three parcels, one in Rwanda and
two in Zaire, and since the impact of the project on the local population was deemed to be
inconsequential, no retlement plan was required by the Bank. However, about 800 families were
indemnized in Rwanda for construction of the Mururu H substation and transmission line corridor,
while some 1760 families were indemnized at seven localities in Zaire to accommodate the main
power plant and dam installations, transmission lines, a quarry, access roads and lodgings for
construction staff. Losses varied widely from several trees to total family assets. The typical loss,
particularly in Zaire, was considerably high for many households at subsistence level. In retrospect,
the ecological impact study had limited itself to the dam and hydroplant construction site, minimizing
the effect of the project on local agricultural fields which it deemed could be easily displaced to lands
north of the site. All parties to the project readily accepted the study and its solutions in spite of
awareness that the Ruzizi H site is located in a densely populated, marginal subsistence area.
Furthermore, neither the Goverments, SINELAC, nor the Bank attempted to obtain the views of the
affected groups and local NGO's during project design and implemation.
5.07   Issues also arose regarding the way in which the indemnizaton process was carried out. In
the case of Rwanda, local level officials had primary responsibility for the inventory/indemnization
process; few complaints were received. In Zaire, SINELAC staff carried out the process based on
informaion receivd from local officials and with the latter's particWon. Four years after the
process began, complais reached the Bank and a consultat ahropolos was engaged to examine
the basis for the complaints. In additon to showing that far more of the population had been affected
than originally estmat (paragraph 5.06), the consultans report indicated that a large part of the
Zairian local population had been severely undrcompenated owing to non-paymen, omission of
foodcrops from the official list of pntins eligible for indemnizaion and use of indemnization rates
daft from 1972. The Bank proposed corrective measures to the Goverment of Zaire and suggested
steps SINELAC could take to improve its relations with the local population and help redress some
of the wrong. SINELAC followed through with most of the Bank's suggestions, but it is unclear
whether the measures which were to have been taken by the Governmeat of Zaire were acted upon.
Involvement of a development anthropologist or similar expert early in the project cycle could have
ensured proper identification of the potential e3propriation issues. In addition, a complete
environ_ental        should have be undertaken to drmine ecological and social problems
and their solutions. The expropriation problem is cuntly being examined and the results will be
forwarded to the Bank aftc SINELAC's Board reiew by the end of June 1992.



-6-
5.08                         It became apparent that the turbines are somewhat more powerful
than had been expected at appraW. Their nominal rating is 14.6 MW, yielding an alternator output
of 14.2 MW, 6.5% greater than the value anticipated at the design stage. When the turbines were
installed, however, their outputs were found to be below the contractually guaranteed values,
apparently due to over-optimistic interpretations of the results obtained on the model on which their
design had been based. The shortfall has not been determined precisely due to inaccuracies inherent
in the method of measurement, but is between 2 and 4%. This renders the manufacturer liable to
contract penalties; furthermore, SINELAC would be entitled to reject the turbines if the shortfall
exceeded 3%. Questions have also arisen as to the efficiencies of the turbines, the onset of
cavitation, and other hydraulic problems.
5.09   These issues were not mentioned in the consulting engineer's final report, which was
prepared before' the turbines were placed in service. The consulting engineer provided some advice
subsequently, but his involvement appears to have been limited. The Bank's final supervision
mission, which visited SINELAC in January 1990, recommended that (i) the consulting engineer
should specify the tests to be made on the turbines and should report their results, and (ii)
SINELAC's mechanical engineering adviser should be retained until resolution of the issues.
However, the mechanical engineer left the project in July 1990, and the only follow-up by the
consulting engineer appears to have been a letter to SINELAC stating that the turbine manufacturer
should be given a final chance to increase the turbine power. He further recommended that
SINELAC accept the turbine provisionally, and pay the manuacturer subject to retention of an
amount for possible penalties. SINELAC refused to do so becas of the power shortfall and other
technical problems. SINELAC advised that additional measurements of the turbine capacity shortfall
taken in May 1991 showed an average capacity within normal limits. This also applies to the turbine
output where differences in output as measured in May 1991 were found to be within the 2% margin
of inaccuracy allowed by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC).
5.10    raining. The February 1986 supervision mission reported that SINELAC had taken no
steps to undertake the training study included in the project, and tdat in view of the national programs
included in other Bank Group financed projects in the three countries, there was no need to establish
a regional training center. This reflected the prefrence of the three countries.
5.11 The original intention had been that SINELAC's staff would be seconded from the three
power companies, but in 1985, SINELAC decided to hire and train its own personnel, and envisaged
the possibility of on-site training of personnel fom the national companies. In September 1987, the
Bank requested SINELAC to prepare and submit to it a training program, but little appears to have
been done for this. On-the-job training has been conducted by the consulting engineer and
contractors. fhis Included three courses of about one month's duration, related to specific hardware.
The consultng engneer coordinated these courses and stae i ints fina report ha a training program
in Europe has also been prepared.
5.12 Power Plant Oneration. The project was intended to cover the initial operation of Ruzizi
II. The Staff Appraisal Report does not discss operational issues, but states that technical assistance
(an electrical/mechanical engineer, chief accountant) was to be provided for two years after
commissioning. In addition, the Project Agreement specified that an engineering consultant with
public udlity experience was to be appointed at least eight months before commissioning. This
consultant was not appointed, however, probably due to SINsLAC's wish to utilize the remaining
IDA Credit fiuds to cover increases to the civil works costs. The electrical/mechanical engineer and



-7-
chief accouaant were hired, but remained only one year after plan strt-up, again due to limited
availability of IDA credit funds. Thus, in spite of a clear intention that SINELAC benefit from
assistance for start-up, little appears to have been provided.
5.13   Contracts were signed in 1984 for the supply of energy by SINELAC to the three national
power companies, but they omitted technical specifications, which were to have been prepared closer
to the commissioning date of the plant. Proposed revisions to the sales contracts, firnished to the
Bank's final supervision mission, made SINELAC responsible for the voltage and frequency
variations of the interconnected network. In practical terms, however, SINELAC could accept this
responsibility only if it were authorized to act as the dispatching center for the whole interconnected
network. The Bank was informed that this option had been considered, but was rejected as
incompatible with the autonomy of the national utilities. More than two years after Ruzizi II was
placed in service, agreement has not been reached on operating rules and procedures including a load
shedding plan as well as establishment of effective communicadons and displays, for a cooperative
management. During this time, two network blackouts have ocurred due to diswonnecion of Ruzizi
U and Rwanda's Mukungwa plant, and measures are needed to avoid refurrence. Agreement could
probably have been reached sooner, had the project focussed more on the important aspect of plant
and company start-up and provided assistance for early examination of potential issues. SINELAC
indicated that discussions are in progress for the three national power companies to sign agreements
covering operational coordination and energy interchanges.
5.14   MAtnanr& Independent auditors of SINELAC's accounts reported in 1989 that a physical
inventory was not available and that they had no means of verifying the existence of stock of the
value shown in the accounts. The Bank's last supervision mission (January 1990) also found that
there was no up-to-date inventory of spare parts, and no forecast of future needs. SINELAC has
informed the Bank that a spare parts inventory was made on Dee   31, 1990, but that it has been
unable to obtainthe prices of individual components, as manufacturers have been unwilling to provide
breakdowns of prices. A purchasing plan for spares has not yet been prepared, pending
determination by SINELAC of the rate of use of components.
5.15   In addition to appointing independent experts to inspect key civil works during construtnion.
SINELAC was to make arrangements for periodic inspecton of the dam and related structures
covering their operation and maintenance and furish these to the Bank for its review one year before
the expected completion of the works. No such arrangemt were made.
5.16    g           i The basis for pricing electricity was accepted by all parties to the projett
and was set forth in the legal agreements signed with IDA as well as the Treaty establishing
SINELAC. It is that the average sales price of Ruzizi II's power will be set in order to obtan a
10% rate of return over the life of the project. Calculation of the sales price was to have been made
by the engineer with public udlity experience at least three mo    before the commissioning date of
the plant. As noted in paragraph 5.12, SINELAC did not hire such an engineer. It did, however.
obtain finds from the French Fonds d'Aide et de Coopdration to engage a firm to carry out the w1tf
analysis and a financial analysis to ensure that the sales price which resulted would also ensure a
healthy financial situation for SINELAC.
5.17   The first analysis carried out by SINELAC's cosultat wrs not accmted by the Bank A it
did not follow the agreed pricing formula. A sweond analysis was prepared which was acceptAble.
yielding an average sales price oa SDR 0.071/kWh (in 1900 t ). SINELAC did not au,.e t.h&



-8 -
result which it found too high. A second firm was engaged by SINELAC and produced another
study, but the Bank again did not accept the results which proposed an initial very low sales price
with progressive increases over an 11 year period before reaching the "economic" price of SDR
0.071/kWh. SINELAC's Board, following intervention by the General Assembly, nonetheless
adopted the recommendations of the second consultant, and voted an inital price of SDR 0.025/kWh
in May 1989.
5.18   The Bank reviewed SINELAC's arguments and agreed that it would be acceptable to set the
price somewhat below the "economic' price during the period when sales were low, and proposed
an alternative price which would be increased over a three-year period to reach the economic' price.
The Bank also considered a proposal from SINELAC to recalculate the sales price attributing a
greater production of energy to Ruzizi It because of hydrological chaoges in the Great Lakes region.
The Bank took this into account but requested that reliable measurements be made over a three-year
period by installation of a measurement station.4/ SINELAC, however, maintained the voted sales
price on the grounds that retail power rates in the three countries could not bear a higher generation
cost. The Bank did not accept this argument as the average price of power in each of the three
countries is lower than economic cost as well as below the levels which would ensure the financial
viability of the three national power companies. SINELAC was thus informed that failure to price
Ruzizi I's power as agreed with !DA and as set forth in their own Treaty would prevent extension
of the Closing Date of the three IDA credits. SINELAC's Board met several times, but did not
change its position. As a result, the Credit closing date of December 31, 1989 was not extended,
and remaining credit balances cancelled. SINELAC subsequently voted a sales price of SDR
0.04/kWh which was recommended by the Bank as an acceptable initial sales price.
5.19   InstiutuonaLD   mo=. At the time of the last supervision mission, SINELAC had a staff
of 102. Staffing can be considered excessive given that SINELAC operates one small hydroplant
supplying three consumers. One reason for the large number of staff is that technical personnel have
been drawn from the national power companies with particular attention that all three nationalities
be represented at any given level of the hierarchy. The Bank recommended that reductions be
achieved by amalgamating separate operating units such as those for the power station and Mururu
il, by using remuneration instead of time off as compensation for shift duties and by reducing the
number of unskilled workers which represent more than half of SINELAC's personnel. As of
December 31, 1991, SINELAC staff totalled 99. SINELAC Indicated that this staffing level reflects
its operadng needs and that the number of lower echelon staff seems justified as there are three sites
involved.
6.     Projec Results
6.1    The project has achieved its stated objectives, in that the power plant and associated facii ities
have been built substantially within cost esdmates; power is available to the regional interconnected
network at approximately the same unit price estimated at the dme of appraisal. The main departure
from that objective has been a two-year delay in placing the plant in service. Supervision reports
stated that this did not constitute a problem for regional supply because Burundi's Rwegura
hydropower plant was commissioned in 1986, sooner than anticipated by the Bank, and met the
demand for Burundi and reduce the supply from the regional interconnected system in the interim.
/       bThis equipment was installed by SINELAC in March 1991.



-9 -
The second objective, training managers and technical staff of the region was only partially achieved,
since the formal training component was dropped in favor of continued training at the national level;
on-site traini  occurred during the plant construction period, but little could take place during the
plant and company's start-up phase due to limited finds remaining for experts' services.
6.2    The contract for turbines specified a 6.5% greater capacity than had been envisioned at
appraisal (paragraph 5.08). That rating, which would increase project benefits, has not been achieved
in full, and as a result, the supplier is liable to contract penalties. Also, a change in the region's
hydrology may allow the plant to produce more energy than estimated at appraisal, also increasing
the project's benefits. This remains to be confirmed, however, by rigorous meas;rement (paragraph
5.18).
6.3    As regards project impact:
(i) the project has an inherently beneficial impact on economic growth by increasing
electrical power capacity;
(ii)  the project had little impact on human resource development because the training
component was de-emphasized;
(iii)   with regard to the environment, the project had a negative effect on some of the
surrounding populatiou which was not adequately compensated for the loss of
cultivable land and other property; and
(iv) through cooperative interconnection of the three small networks, the project offers
opporunities for regional institution building and technological advances.
6.4    The SAR estimated that a selling price of USS0.073/kWh expressed in 1982 prices (and
before transmission and distribution losses) would meet the objective of a 10% inwtnal rate of return
for the project. Section 6 of Part m and Annex 1 of this report present an update of the SAR
analysis using (i) actual sales for 1989-90 and SAR production quantities of 140 Gwh and 200 Gwh
for 2 and 3 units respectively, (ii) final project costs updated to 1991 prices, (iii) the sales prices
applied by SINELAC through 1991 and (iv) for 1992-95 progressive rate increases to reach the
"economic price' in 1994, the year in which the third unit is to be installed in the plant. Using these
assumptions, the revised internal rate of return for the project is 2.5%. For the project to achieve
the targeted 10% rate of return, the sales price applied after 1995 will need to be higher than the
calculated 'economic' price.
6.5    Financial       - Performance,SINELAC's ficia statements, including both appraisal estimates
and actual results for 1984-90 are given in Annex 2. Through mid-1989, SINELAC's sole asset was
under construction, and the company earned no revenue. Operating losses incurred in 1989 and 1990
are due to a low volume of sales, the very low sales price charged and interest and commission
charges. SINELAC's large losses were not, however, projeced by the SAR forecast accounts which
appear to have substantially nderestimated interest and commissions payable during the grace period.
High receivables have been a problem for SINEL AC from the beginning of operation. In 1990, these
represented 11 months of sales. Actions are under way to bring receivables down to an acceptable
level by imposing penalties on all bills not paid within 90 days. SINELAC's accounts were audited
annually and reports furnished to IDA with only minor delay'.



- 10-
7.     E
7.1    Th sustainability of the project depends on the technical and financial capacity of SINELAC
to operate and maintain the Ruzizi II plant. An inadequate sales price of power, high receivables and
excessive operating costs represent risks to sustainability. Sustainability of full benefits depends also
on the three national power companies and SINELAC reaching formal agreement on network
operating practices.
8.     Sk    P      r
8.1 The Bank performed well on the construction aspects of the project. It also macde provision
for experts to assist SINELAC during the initial operating period, and possibly expected that
operating issues would be identified and addressed during construction. However, increased attention
during project preparation to the issues concering operation of the interconnected networks would
probably have expedited formal agreement on network operating rules and avoided the outage
problems which have occurred.
8.2    The Bank has been attentive to difficulties and reacted in a timely manner when they arose,
but its effectiveness decreased towards the end of the construction phase becase of loss of leverage
due to the Credits being largely exhausted.
8.3    The Bank was familiar with the project area which is characteized by a high population
density and subsistence farming. Given that the effects of constructing roads, a workers' village and
long power lines in addition to the power plant have the potential to cause, at the very least,
inconvenience and possibly hardship, the effects of such a major construction project on the local
population should have been examined by a specialist, rather tan an enginering firm. A project like
Ruzizi Ishould include an assessment of the po   ecological and social issues as is now the
standard practice for Bank Group financed projet.
8.4    The Ruzizi II project had certain charactistics making it atractdve to the private sector.
The plant was determined to be the least cost option to supply power to the Great Lakes region and
is therefore competitive with other plants which might be constructed there. Agreement on the
principles of pricing Ruzizi H's electricity guaranteed a 10% return on invested funds, and financial
projecions showed that shareholders would earn dividends after the plant was utilized at fill capacity.
With these characteristics, an altemative capital structure should have been examined and the interest
of the private sector tested. Such a change is still possible, and could bring efficiency gains to
company operadons.
9.     B
9.1    This project has three borrowers-the Governments of Burundi, Rwanda an Zaire-and a
beneficiary, SINELAC. The borrowers had to reconcile two sets of objectives which were not always
consistent: (i) to manage SINELAC efficiently and (ii) to draw the maximum benefit for their own
utilities, within the framework of national policies. Conflict between objectives was most apparent
on financial issues such as setting the sales price of power and makig timely payments, as well as
on insdtutional issues such as staffing of SINELAC. The organizational structure, paricularly the
statutory bodies, of the company should have been set up to avoid such conflict.



- 11 X
9.2    SINELAC's management performed well both during the construction phase and the
transition to operating company, especially regarding resolution of technical issues. SINELAC's
handling of the contractual issue concerning price revision was commendable, and it obtained a
solution which was fair and equitable to all parties. SINELAC did, however, choose to reduce or
terminate technical assistance arrangements before some important issues had been resolved, which
was neither in SINELAC's own interest, ror in accordance with agreements reached in the context
of the IDA credit. Consulting services for technical and institutional support had been foreseen for
the first two operational years of the plant. Support during this period was critical to the resolution
of major issues such as pricing and effective operation of the regional interconnected network. In
such a case, funds allocated to finance such support should not be fungible. Also, provision should
be made in order that services of the consulting engineer supervising works continue until all issues
of plant commissioning have been filly resolved.
10.    Project RelationshiX
10.1   Relationships for this project were complex because the project included three borrowers who
had to respond to objectives which were not always consistent.
10.2   The relationship between the Bank and the beneficiary, SINELAC, was good throughout the
implementation period. Both parties reacted in a timely manner to resolve issues which arose.
10.3   There was relatively little coordination between the co-financiers of the project, and no joint
missions took place. This was unfortunate with respect to the sales price issue as SINELAC received
confliting advice from the Bank and another financier. Also, closer cooperation might have allowed
another financier to reallocate fiuds for technical assistance during the plant start-up period when it
became clear that increased civil works costs would exhaust the IDA credit.
II1.    Consulting SeWices
11.1   The project was prepared by an international engineering firm with extensive experience in
the region. Project execution was supervised by a joint venture between that firm and a second
international engineering firm. Certain adverse geological features were not identified during
preparation and necessitated design changes during construction. Weaknesses in procurement
documents and inadequate advice to bidders contributed to the price revision issue which arose
between SINELAC and the civil works contractor. Finally, the turbine issue was not pursued very
actively by the consulting engineer, whose advice on provisional acceptance has been rejected by
SINELAC. It should be noted, however, that the latter issue arose after completion of the consulting
engineer's main services in 1989, and it is not clear what conractual arrangements existed for
provision of sbsequent services.
11.2 The performance of technical advisors and the financial expert was satisfactory. A serious
shortcoming of technical assistance arrangements has been that they were discontinued before Ruzizi
U was fully commissioned.
11.3   Ihe panel of experts for dam construction performed well, and made a u-table contribution
to the resolution of problems resulting from geological difficulties.



- 12 -
12.                  =nand Data
12.1   The legal documents for the project reflected the complexity of a regional project grouping
three borrowers and a newly created muldnational power company. They also complemented the
Treaty and By-Laws establishing SINELAC, by providing details of important measures to be taken
by the three borrowers to ensure that SINELAC could function satisfactorily during the construction
phase of the project as well as make a smooth transidon to operaing company once the power plant
was completed.
12.2  The Staff Appraisal Report providel a useful framework for the construction phase of the
project, but could have been more explicit on operational and institutional issues requring regional
cooperation.
12.3   Data provided during project execution and specifically for preparation of this Completion
Report were mainly the periodic and final reports of the consulting engineer. It would have been
useful during project execution for SINELAC itself to maintain a small project unit responsible for
inte ii maintenance of detailed construction costs and use of financing, as reconstruction of costs
by the consulting engineer post-execution has resulted in rather large discrepancies with actual
disbursements due to the many currencies involved.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI, RWANDA, ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDIT 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
IPA IT: PROJECT REVIEW F-Rom OIzBtROMWM9S PERSPEClv
I. INlTRODQLCTIO.
In order to satisfy the increased power demand from the Great Lakes Region, Burundi,
Rwanda and Zaire applied to international donors (IDA, EDF, the Italian Govermnent, EIB, and
Agence Frangaise pour la Maitrise de l'Energie) and to BDEGL (Banque de Developpement des Etats
des Grands Lacs) for the necessary financing for constructing the Ruzizi II hydroelectric installation
and its related facilities and for establishing SINELAC, which was to be responsible for constructing
and operating the Ruzizi II plant.
The construction period for Ruzizi II was from November 1984 to June 1989. As of January
31, 1992, the total project cost was SDR 89.6 million. Industrial operation began on July 1, 1989.
II. EROECT OQECflES
The World Bank Staff Appraisal Report ideutified the following project objectives:
-    to expand the supply of electricity to Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, thus sustaining economic
growth in their industrial and commercial activities and in their domestic sectors (i.e. this
being the main objective);
to train managerial and technical staff, with financial and technical advisors providing
technical assistance under the project.
IX. MAIN ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT AND EVALUATON OF EXECUTIO
m.I   Backgvund
-    1974: ASBL, by virtue of its responsibility for the electrification of the Great Lakes Region,
calls upon TRACTEBEL to prepare the preliminary study for the Kiandja-Sisi project, with
financing from EDF. This installation was to generate 120 MW.
-     1978-80: Because the preliminary design studies (prepared by TRACTEBEL and Rhein-
Ruhr-Ingenieurs (RRI) had shown that major problems would be involved in operating the
Kiandja-Sisi project, and in view of tht possibility that an output of 120 MW would exceed
the likely demand in the region, it was decided that studies should focus on the development
of the Kiandja-Kitimba site, which would provide for an installed load of 40 MW. At the
contractor's suggestion, this level was subsequendy changed to 44 MW.
-    The project was divided into the following nine items:
1.    Civil works (COGEFAR)
2.    Hydraulic equipment (Salvatore Trifone & Figli)



- 140
3.    Turbines and auxiliaries (NEYRPIC)
4.    Generators and auxiliaries (ANSALDO)
5A.  Powerhouse electrical equipment (MARELLI)
5B.   Nonpowerhouse electrical equipment (ABAY)
6.    Construction of offices and housing (SHAMUKIGA)
7.    Works monitoring and supervision (Mhe Ruzizi II Group: TRACTEBEL and RRI)
8.    Technical assistance and studies
(UNERG       provision of iwo specialists;
TEKHNE:  preparation of specifications and plans for offices and housing;
LAHMEYER: revision and aijustment of project costs, from mid-1980 to
September 1982 prices;
BCEOMITRACTEBEL: pricing study;
PANEL OF EXPERTS: examination of geological problems).
'November 5, 1982:  Invitation to bid for civil works.
May-November 1983: Signature by the Heads of State of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire of
the Convention establishing SINELAC.
February 17, 1984:  Special General Meeting to establish SINELAC.
March 8, 1984:     Notification of the award of the civil works contract to
COGEFAR.
July 1, 1989:       Commencement of tue industrial and commercial operation of
Ruzizi H.
I11.2         Aspet of the  ect and Evaluation of Exeion
NB:          Only those aspects of the project which call for specific comment have been
included.
A.           Pro    D
The original idea of constructing a plant with an installed load of 120 MW was abandoned
in favor of a 3 x 14.6 MW facility with, however, only two sets operating at the initial stage. This
decision was reached because of doubts regarding any rapid increase in power demand in the region.
Currently (one year after commissioning), the two sets are operating at the limit of their
capacity, and additional financing must be found for the supply and assembly of the third set. There
are considerable disadvantages to equipping the Ruzizi H plant in two separate stages; in particular.



the increased cost resulting from the need to issue a fiurther invitition to bid, the reopening of the
work site, and shutdowns of operations, not to mention the fact that the equipment for the third set
is likely to be different from that used in the first two sets (because if the donors are different, the
suppliers are likely to be different).
There were certain short    i 'ngs in the project studies, such as the following:
*     Insufficient importance was given to geological drilling, and the geological problems
encountered during project implementation had a major impact in terms of both
execution delays and overall cost.
*     The studies inadequately addressed the project's impact on the lives of people living
in the vicinity. Solutions to this problem are now being sought.
*     The division of the contractual responsibilities for equipment supply and assembly
into a number of separate lots should have been kept to a strict minimum.
This was psrticularly the case with electrical equipment, because the demarcation of
responsibilizz between the contractors for item 5A (powerhouse electrical
equipment) and item SB (nonpower-house electrical equipment) was not clearly
established, resulting in the activation, during operations, of the tharmal imagery
protective devices fitted under lot SA to the SB power transformers.
From the outset, the plant should have been provided with a stand-by generator.
The Mururu I substation was designed to supply energy generated by Ruzizi II to
the ELECTROGAZ, REGIDESO and SNEL networks.
When the project was designed, insufficient attention was given to the question of exchanging
energy among the national power companies through the Mururu II substation. Nevertheless, such
exchanges were to be expected, if only at times when one of she two sets was undergoing
maintenance or when the entire plant was shut down so that inspections could be made or work
performed upstream of the butterfly valve (for example, for inspecdng the tunnel).
Because of this, some means must be found to enable the operators to overcome the problems
of coordinating operations on tde interconnected network through the M muru II substation, and
financing for the additional equlpment necessary for monitoring the network is being included in the
resources now being sought for fimding the third set.
B.    Ptjc Executton
We wish to make the following comments on the major problems arising during project
execution:



- 16-
LU:
*     The exploratory drillings conducted between April and September 1985 revealed the
following unexpected geological problems:
Intake works: Because the exploratory drllings did not conflrm that there would be
a solid foundation for the intake, the project manager ordered that this be relocated
about 17 m downstream, with a reduction in the size of the intake cone (entonnoir).
It was therefore necessary to excavate the embankment above the intake and
strengthen it by means of bolts and sprayed concrete. Relocating the intake increased
the volume of excavations and reduced the length of the tumel and the volume of the
intake.
Plant building:  Unexpected problems arose with regard to the drying of the
excavations for the plant. It had been assumed that the underlying layer of clay
extended over the whole area (thus providig essent  protection against water
seepage), but this proved not to be the case. It was therefore necessary to extend the
watertight screen to 40 m instead of the 25 m originally planned and install a
pumping system (750 liters/sec) based on suction wells.
Because of these geological problems, Amendment (awnant) No. 4 was signed, for
an amount of Lit 3.9 billion.
Lau:
*     The original design had to be changed by modifying the two upstream expansion
compensators, increasing their transveral deformability by the addition of flanges
and accessories (Amendment No. 1: F 1,239,50). and introducing a bayonet
connection into the link between am 2 of the distributor and the intake side of the
compensation sleeve upstream of the butterfly valve as a means of neutralizing the
approximately 18 mm pressure difference at the distributor am (Amendment No. 3:
F 63,000).
Tubine cacit and       tshorall
The values guaranteed by NEYRPIC in its bid are shown in Annex 1.
The results of the initial commissioning trials in May/lu JJuly 1989 were inadequate,
and between July 1989 and July 1990 NEYRPIC made the following modifications in order to
midgate the problems:
*     replacement of the air tube located at the upper cone of the intake [aspirateurl with
a compressed air injector system lo     at the and shield (SINELAC accepted this
injector system as a form of compensation for the power shortfall, because it makes
operations flexible, particularly at low loads);
*     increase in the gate opening, and replamnent of the safety pins at the gate cirJe.
together with checking of all calculations against these now data;



- 17 -
*     improvements in water filtration In the cooling system "or the shaft joint packings.
NEYRPIC then forwarded the draft report on the trials to the consulting engineer and
SINELA'.
In letters dated November 27, 1990 and February 7, 1991, the consulting engineer
informed SINELAC that NEYRPIC's report was acceptable and that overall the performances were
in line with the contractual requirements, allowing for the normal margins of inaccuracy. The
que-tion of inaccuracy with regard to the maximumn capacity of turbine No. 2 remained, and
NEYRPIC asked to be allowed to repeat the trials.
SINELAC refused provisional acceptance on the basis of the work performed in July 1980
(etter No. 056 of January 31, 1991), because pin breakages continued and the performance of turbine
No. 2 had not yet been confirmed. It agreed to allow NEYRPIC to repeat the trials for determining
the turbine's maximum capacity, under the supervision of the consulting engineer.
Provisional acceptance finally took place in May ')91, and was signed by all the parties
concerned (SINELAC, NEYRPIC, the Ruzizi It Group and the CEC Delegation). The following are
the main results contained in the final version of the test report:
aower:
The performance reflected in the chart comparing the capacity as measured and the curve
representing contractually guaranteed capacity was considered satisfactory, except for Unit No. 2,
with a net head of 30.80 m. In this case, an additional inspection subsequently indicated a shontfall
in measured average capacity of 0.525%. The penalty corresponding to such a shortfall is
ECU 15,831, and SINELAC has already requested the Ruzizi H Group to inform NEYRPIC of this
penalty.
OUtput of turbine No. 2:
-     Guaranteed average output (weighted) for three net heads: 90.007%
-     Measured average output (weighted): 88.85%
-     Difference: 1.157%, which is within the 2% margin of inaccuracy allowed hy ICE-
Ouput of turbine No. 3:
-     Guaranteed average output (weighted) for three net heads: 90.007%
-     Measured av.age output (weighted): 88.18%
-     Difference: 1.83%, which is within the 29% margin of inacuracy allowed by vCE
*     Cavitation



- 18 -
The cavitation ::oises at low load were at all times within normal limits, and our contract
with the manufacturer did not authorize us to operate with a gate opening of less than 5/10.
The effects of cavitation were very slightly noticeable, not at the runner, bat at the point
where the air tube enters the air intake [asp}rateur]. The tube was removed when compressors were
installed for air injection, and this area of the mechanism was resurfaced by NEYRPIC. The runners
themselves (of stainless steel) have never shown any sign of cavitation.
Moreover, once the ar-injection compressors were installed, the noise produced by cavitation
at low load practically disappeared. ThIs means that we are now able to operate the turbines at low
load, permitting considerable flexibility in operations.
*     Cooline in the flood-lubrication system for the shaftiint ackings
Until April 1991, the filters in this system became clogged too frequently. However,
the action taken by NEYRPIC in April/May 1991 has solved this problem to the entire satisfaction
of SINELAC.
One of the candle filters originally mounted in parallel in each of the units was replaced by
a device consisting of a hydrocyclone followed by a large-capacity 200-micron basket filter. Since
then, there have been no firther operating problems id the system.
Saey pins: The gate safety pins that were previously used, together with their mountings,
were replaced in April/May 1991 by new flexibly-closing pins, and the excessive play between the
two half-levers of each vane was eliminated. Since then, we have had only one breakage of a pin,
rcsulting from its normal operation.
Lt4:
Between the provisional acceptance (July 5, 1989) and f;nal acceptance (July 29, 199') of
Lot 4 (generators and auxiliaries), the major work to be done consisted of eliminating the excessive
vibration in the shafts and the abnormal noises coming from the brush ring systems of the two sets,
and balancing the shaft in set No. 2.
The contractor carried out this work, and final acceptance was on July 29, 1991.
Lot SA:
As regards the powerhouse electrical equipment (provisional acceptance = August 18, 1989),
the problems encountered during project execution arose because of the contractor's internal
organization. This enterprise (E.cole Marelli) was merged with ABB-Tecnomasio and this slowed
down the planning of tfie works necessary for removing operating constraints.
So far, the major problem affecting operations has been the untimely activation of the
thermal-image protection system fitted by Marelli to the power transformers supplied by ABAY (Lot
5B).



- 19 -
Nevertheless, it should be noted that ABAY supplied another thermal-image protection
system for the same transformers, so that the Marelli system was provided as a kind of backup safety
device.
Lot 8: Techical Assistance:
SINELAC's management benefited from the support of specialists in electromechanics and
accou- ing for managing and monitoring project execution.
Although the accounting expert's services were useful during project execution, this was
much less true once the plant had been commissioned. At a time when SINELAC had just begun the
process of identifying a financial analyst to replace the accounting specialist, the Bank was planning
closure of the Credit.
SINELAC found the technical services of the consultant in electromechanics particularly
useful.
Nevertheless, certain problems arose at a human level between this specialist and the
SINELAC staff with regard to the training of the operating personnel.
After the final closure of the IDA Credit, SINELAC decided to give up this technical
assistance, because the financial burden was increasingly out of proportion to the services received.
It is now relying on the national power companies and local expertise, and, if the need arises, such
services can be subcontracted.
Training
In the project objectives, training for SINELAC personnel was particularly emphasized. It
was even proposed that a regional training center be established, but .hkis component was not
implemented because the individual national power companies already had, or were planning to
constru;t, training centers at national level. Currently, the three companies do in fact operate a
training center.
The following types of training were provided for SINELAC personnel:
(1)   While the equipment was being assembled:
-     on-the-job training by the contractors and the technical consultant financed by the
World Bank (until July 31, 1990); this training consisted of theoretical courses and
practical work;
-     short courses provided by UNERG and the contractors;
-     short courses provided by the national power companies.
(2)   During the operating period:



-20 -
on-the-job training by the contractors while the latter were eliminating the operating
constraints identified after provisional acceptance;
short courses provided by EdF (Electricit6 de France);
involvement of SINELAC personnel in the assembly of major items of equipment for
the national power companies.
EXPROPRIATIONS
As part of rural electrification activities, SNEL intends to use this line for supplying power
to the Mumosho and Panzi groups, who were affected by the expropriations. SNEL is currently
finalizing the studies for bringing the benefits of electric power to this community.
In order to find a final solution for the problems caused by the expropriations, SINELAC's
decisionmaking bodies met in regular session from February 22-24, 1992 and called for legal advice
to be sought on this issue, so that appropriate action can be taken as soon as possible.
ELECI RICITY PRICING
As a result of the BCEOM and TRACTEBEL pricing studies, a long-term marginal cost
price of SDR 0.71/kWh was established. The SINELAC administration set the initial tariff at SDR
0.25/kWh. The period over which progressive increases were to be made until the 'economic' price
was reached was planned to run from July 1, 1989 to June 30, 2003.
In the Bank's opinion:
-    the initial tariff is too low;
-    the period allowed is too long;
-    for the purposes of pricing, the 12-month period should run from January 1 to December 31.
A Ruzizi II supervision mission to Bukavu in January 1990 was informed of the major
hydrological changes that had taken place since 1960. The Bank called for a study to reassess Ruzizi
lI's energy capability.
The conclusions of the TRACTEBEL study are as foiows:
(1)   average flow at Ruzizi II is 102 m3/sec;
(2)   average available capacity is 25.4 MW;
(3)   annual energy capability is 223 GWh with three units (load factor = 0.65) and 197
GWh with two units (oad factor = 0.75).



-21-
In light of these data, the adjustment of the MUV index, and the actual progress of project
disbursements, the revised "economic" price is SDR 0.52/kWh.
The Bank is calling for measures to be adopt-d downstream of Ruzizi 11 in order to confirm
the conclusions of the study reassessing energy capability. To this end, EGL installed a level meter
in 1990 as part of the studies for the regional electrification master plan.
The following principles were established in Luxembourg in September 1990 at the meeting
with donors (the World Bank, EMI and CCCE):
-    pricing of energy from Ruzizi II at the LTMC;
-    immediate application of a rate of SDR 40/MWh to the energy generated by Ruzizi 11;
-    agreement by donors and SINELAC to postpone pricing at the LTMC until the next round
of large-scale investment in the region's power sector (i.e. the construction of a new
hydropower plant);
-    meanwhile, SINELAC's tariff to be increased as quicldy as possible from SDR 40/MWh to
SDR 50/MWh;
-    this increase in SINELAC tariffs to be accompanied by an increase in the price to consumers
averaging between SDR 10/100 kWh and SDR 12/100 kWh.
After these discussions, SINELAC set its sales price for power at SDR 40/MWh as of
January 1, 1991.
As regards the price increase from SDR 40/MWh to SDR 50/MWh, our decisionmaking
body has recommended that the national power companies and SLNELAC should promptly carry out
the necessary studies for calculating a price that will take account of SINELAC's investment program,
the impact of the price on the financial stability of the national power companies, and the purchasing
power of the final consumers.
The conclusions of these studies will be discussed at the next Board meeting, which is due
to be held in the final 10 days of June 1992.
THE 1984 SUPPLY AGREEMENT
The 1984 electric power supply agreement (prepared in cooperation with the Bank) sufters
from many shortcomings. In addition to the technical issues raised in Part I of this Report, there
appears to be disagreement on the commercial and financial aspects.
(a)   Method of Pamn of SINELAC Bills
The supply agreement stipulates that SINELAC bills are to be denominated in SDR and are
to be paid by the national companies in their local currencies at the rate of excage applied by the
Central Bank on the date of the biling.



-22 -
Because current economic circumstances in CEPGL member countries are resulting in a
considerable devaluation of local currencies vis-k-vis the SDR, application of this measure is greatly
prejudicing SINELAC, and may jeopardize the financial equilibrium of this recently established
organization. If the requirement that payments be made in national currencies is to continue, the
contract should be amended so that the rate applied is that current on the date of payment.
(b)   The Standing Charge
The supply agreement links standing charges to SINELAC's working capital needs, whereas the
national electric power companies regard them as an entitlement to a subscribed demand, regardless of
the amount of energy actually consumed.
Standing charges cannot be viewed as a means of meeting working capital needs.
The national power companies believe that the principle of the standing charge, as defined in the
supply agreement, is acceptable only if SINELAC's three customers take equal shares of the energy thus
guaranteed. In reality, however, this is not the case.
SINELAC's excessive working capital needs will mean that, from 1992, any company that does
not consume its allotted share will become responsible for financial charges without any direct
compensation. The result will be:
Companies taking more than one third of Ruzizi I's output will be receiving a financial
benefit.
SINELAC will receive financial advances in respect of nonexistent output.
-     Enterprises not consuming their shares of energy during the initial years of repayments
on IDA  subloans will be considerably penalized.  The prices will be totally
disproportionate from one company to another.
In light of all these arguments, the national power companies believe that SINELAC's billing
system should be changed and a one-part tariff system introduced, i.e. one in which only the energy
actually demanded and consumed is billed.
Currendy, SINELAC is studying various possible solutions to the problems presented by the
national power companies. Obviously, changing the principle governing billing will require the adtiption
of amendments to the Convemlon establishing SINELAC and the power supply agreements entered into
with the three power companies.
PURCHASE OF SPARE PARTS
When the plant came into operation, spare parts were supplied to SINELAC by the vmtous
contractors servicing Ruzizi H. SINELAC was informed of the total cost of these spare pdu but.
because the contractors do not manufacture the parts, it is impossible to determine unit prices. However.
shadow prices for operating purposes (i.e. accounting) were set by contacting the CEPGL natiorai power
companies, comparing the parts with similar items, and deciding what weighting should be applied



- 23 -
Every year, SINELAC draws up current and capital budgets itemizing all its requirements.
During budget execution, orders are placed on the local or extenal markets, and SINELAC
occasionally calls upon the services of the consulting engineer and some of the contractors with which
it maintains very good relations.
Institutional DevelmMt
As of December 31, 1991, the SINELAC staff totaled 99, with the following breakdown:
-     Nonpermanent                                          3
-     Higher management and technical staff                 37
-     Skilled workers                                       12
-     Unskilled workers                                     47
TOTAL                                                       99
The management and technical staff were bired in accordance with a predetermined
organization chart and clearly specified job descriptions. The organization chart reflects SINELAC's
operating needs, and is not based on any geopolitical criteria.
The number of lower echelon staff seems justified, since three sites are involved (i.e. the
headquarters at Bukavu, the plant 25 km from Bukavu, and the dispatching center in Rwanda).
These employees were hired from among the communities whose land was expropriated in
order to implement Ruzizi H.
FEMANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Operating Account
In one and a half years, SINELAC's capitalization has been completely diluted.
This is mainly becuse of IDA's financial charges and the amordzation of intangible fixed
assets, amounting to 77% of interest and commission on long-term borrowings.
Overall, allocations to amortization and financial charges place an excessively large burden
on SINELAC's operating account (77% in 1989 and 82% in 1990; see finahcial statements forwarded
to you annually).
The negative financial result is partly due to the low income from power sales resulting from
the excessively low initial tariff.



-24 -
In 1990, SINELAC's overdue receivables increased sharply, reaching the level of 91 % of
its turnover for that year.
As of December 31, 1991, nonaccruals totaled SDR 5,106,584.10, with the following
breakdown:
-     ELECTROGAZ (Rwanda)               SDR 4,510,788.91
-     REGIDESO (Burundi)                SDR  595,795.19
-     SNEL (Zaire)                      SDR  435,021.33
Efforts are being made to bring this amount down to a reasonable level (i.e. about 10%).
As an incentive to SINELACs customers to pay their bills on time, and at the request of the
company's decisionmaking bodies, its management will conduct a study of the necessary modalities
to govern penalties on all bills not paid within 90 days, and of other appropriate debt-recovery
mechanisms.
Cash Suplus
In spite of the negative results obtained over the two and a half years that the plant has been
in operation, and in light of the efforts to be made by the shareholders to reestablish the company's
capitalization, the most pessimistic of financial projections show a very large cash surplus. A sound
cash management policy would make it possible to develop the power sector in the Great Lakes
region.
Cost of Ruzizi II as of January 31. 1992
As of January 31, 1992, total project cost was SDR 89.6 million. A breakdown by lot is
shown in the attached summary.
ComlletionDae
SINELAC considers that the dates of provisional acceptance should be taken as the
completion dates because it was then that ownership was transferred.
Lot   Description                                             Date of provisional acceptance
1   Civil works                                            June 16, 1989
2   Hydraulic equipment                                     March-May 1988
3   Turbines and auxiliaries                                May 8, 1991
4   Generators and auxiliaries                              July 5, 1989
t    Powerhouse electrical                                  August 18, 1989
5B   Electrical equipment other than powerhouse             December 1, 1988
6    Construction of offices and housing                    February 8, 1991



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI, RWANDA, ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDIT 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
PART III:   COMMENTS BY SINELAC ON PART I
Project design and organization
4.1   (a)    The geological problems encountered during project implementation has a major impact in
terms both of execution delays and of overall project cost. Even though the overall cost
remained with IDA's original budget, the additional costs incurred by these problems went
beyond the normal framework of physical contingencies.
(b)   One of the wealnesses of the project study was the inadequate assessment of the project's
impact on the livelihood of the people living in the vicinity. The companies concerned have
been approached to produce a speedy appraisal of the demand for electricity of the nearby
population centers, with a view to their electrification.
4.2          The report also points out gaps in the project preparation studies regarding the institutional
aspect. Although the objective of increasing electricity supply throughout the region has been
reached, there are still problems in terms of the interconnected network. There is thus a need
for the four power companies to sign agreements covering operation. of the network,
arrangements for operational coordination, energy interchanges among the companies, etc.
Discussions are already in progress on these questions.
4.3          The fact that the capacity of the two generation units was saturated only one year after entry
into service shows that it would have been advisable for the project planners to provide for
three generation units right from the start.
4.4         In light of the comments in point 4.2 above, a study should be made of ways and means of
entrusting SINELAC with the task of coordinating operation of the interconnected system.
4.5          Although point 5.04 of the RUZIZI II Appraisal Report (March 1983) states unreservedly:
"SINELAC will be governed by a General Assembly consisting of the three Ministers of
Energy," the present PCR notes that, at the early preparation stage, the Bank questioned the
need for a General Assembly.
We fail to understand the Bank's resistance on this point, since the objectives of RUZIZI II, which
included the creation of SINELAC, should be viewed within the sense and overall context of the basic
principles of establishment of the Communit6 Electrique des Pays des Grands Lace (CEPGL), specifically,
the socioeconomic integration of the three member countries. This would mean that for a company like
SINELAC, a General Assembly would be a normal part of its adminisrative tructure.



-26 -
5.01   A credit fbr construction of the administrative building, housing, furniture and household electrical
appliances was obtained from Banque des Etats des Pays des Grands Lacs (BDEGL). (See our fax No.
146/91 of March 7, 1991 following you fax no 9304 of January 30, 1991.)
5.08-5.09  _
(1)    Turbine capacity shortfall
The Bank's comments are mainly based on the opinions of TRACTEBEL, forwarded to the Bank by
SINELAC in fax No. 146 of March 7, 1991. Meanwhile, things have progressed, thanks to NEY'RPIC's
efforts in April/May 1991.
At the time of provisional acceptance of Lot 3 (Turbines and Auxiliaries) in May 1991, it was noted
by SINELAC and its consultant engineer that the comparison of different net shortfalls between measured and
contractually guaranteed capacities was satisfactory, except for Unit NO. 2, with a net shortfall of 30.80 m.
Additional measurements were taken in May 1991 for this turbine No. 2, and the result was sent to
SINELAC by the consultant engineer on November 25, 1991, showing an estimated shortfall in measured
average capacity of 0.525%.
(2)    2urbin gutp
As noted in the provisional acceptance report of May 1991, the measured weighted average output
was 88.85% and 88.189% respectively, for turbines Nos. 2 ad 3 represaet   a shortfall of 1.1566% for
turbine No. 2 and 1.827% for turbine No.3, in relation to the guarteed value of 90.007%.
These differences of 1.1566% and 1.827% are within the 2% margin of inaccuracy allowed by the
ICE.
(3)    Cavn
The cavitation noises at low load were always within normal limits, and our contract with the
manufacturer does not authorize us to operate with a gate opening of less than 5/10.
The effects of cavitation were very slightly noticeable, not on the wheel of the turbine but at the point
where the air tube enters the intake [aspirateuri. The air tbe was removed when compressors were installed
for air injection, and a new part was instailed by NEYRPIC. The turbine wheels themselves (of stainless
steel) have never shown a.y sign of cavitation.
Also, once the air-injection compressors were installed, the noise produced by cavitation at low load
practically disappeared. This means that we are now able to operate the turbines at low load.



-27-
(4)   Othr hdrauic nroblem  (int 5.OS)
Assuming that the Bank is thinking of the clogging of the filters in the sprinkler system for the shaf
joint fillings, and the frequent breakages of the gate safety pins, we would point out that NEYRPIC looked
into these problems in April/May 1991, prior to provisional acceptance, and was able to solve them to
SINELAC's entire satisfaction:
One of the candle flters originally mounted parallel to each unit was replae by a device consisting
of a hydrocyclone followed by a large-capacity 200-micron baket filter. Ihe previously rigid pins
were replaced by new flexibly-anchored pins, and the excessive play between the two half-levers of
each vane was eliminated.
Since then, the water filtration system has worked well, and we have so far had only one breakage
of a safety pin, resuldng from its normal operation.
5.13   The problems of coordinadng operation of the interconnected network were not filly appreciated at
the time of the RUZIZI II studies. This is probably why the role of the Dispatching Center for the overall
network was not assigned to MURURU 2 at start-up.
During the 2'h years of operation, problems of coordinton were idenfied (Inrchanges of energy
priced at different rates, teams handling malfunctions, failure to publicize the network's key paramer,, load-
shedding plans). These problems have been dicussed both at the metng of opertors of the interconnected
network and by the Board of Directors. The operaors meet at least three dmes a year.
Although the instituional deciion has been take to make the Muniu E   n ubstato the regional
dispatching center, finandal assistance will have to be provided for the additional equipment necsary to
ensure that operations in the regional network are propedy coordnated. The equipment is puaty for the
Mururu U substation and for the Ruzizi II power plant, providng infbrmation on the siaioa in the
interconnected network, the frequen  meter rdays at Rutzizi IL and - to some extent - the national networks
(with subfrequency relays for load shedding.
Consultat' Servces
11.1   As indicated in our comments on sections 5.08 and 5.09 concerning urbine performance, step were
taken to ensure that the conwlting eagineer could continue aft  1989 to seek solutions for the problems, in
cooperation with NEYRPIC. It is for this reason that the solutions proposed by NEYRPIC for the problem
of filter clogging in the floodlubricated dsaft joint packing system and the new desig for the gme safety pins
had to receive prior approval from the consuldng engn    (see 5.08(4)).
Similarly, the consulting engineer had to participate and be presa on sie for the instaillaboi of air
compressors on the intakes, the analysis of the May 1991 pefomance tes, and the provisioal cepunce
of item 3. Financing for these seves was provided by EDF.
I3ria~tion
lTe problem is currently being examined, and we will forward our commes to you afl the Board
meeting on February 17 and 18, 1992.



-28-
However, we are enclosing the report of the interministerial committee of the Government of Zaire
on the problems arising in that country as a result of Ruzizi II.
EEICTICY pR=ING
As a result of the BCEOM and TRACTEBEL pricing studies, a long-term marginal cost price of SDR
0.71/kWh was established. The SINELAC adminis-tration set the initial tariff at SDR 0.25/kWh. The
period over which progressive increases were to be made until the "economic" price was reached was planned
to run from July 1, 1989 to June 30, 2003.
In the Bank's opinion:
-     the initial tariff is too low;
-     the period allowed is too long;
-     for the purposes of pricing, the 12-month period should run from January 1 to December 3 1.
A Ruzizi II supervision mission to Bukavu in January 1990 was informed of the major hydrological
changes that had taken place since 1960. The Bank called for a study to reassess Ruzizi II's energy
capability.
The conclusions of the TRACIEBEL study are as follows:
(1)   average flow at Ruzizi  is 102 m/sec;
(2)    average available capacity is 25.4 MW;
(3)    annual energy capability is 223 GWh with three units (oad factor = 0.65) and 197 GWh
with two units (load factor = 0.75).
In light of these data, the adjustment of the MUV index, and the acta progress of project
disbursements, the revised "economic" price is SDR 0.52/kWh.
The Bank is caUling for meares to be adopted downstream of Ruzizi H in order to confirm the
conclusions of the study reassessing energy capability. To this end, EGL installed a level meter in 1990, as
part of the studies for the regional electrification master plan.
The following principles were established in Luxembourg in September 1990 at the meeting with
donors (the World Bank, EIB and CCCE):
-     pricing of energy from Ruzizi II at LTMC;
-     immediate application of a rate of SDR 40/MWh to the energy generated by Ruzizi ll;
-     agreement by donors and SINELAC to postpone pricing at LTMC until the next rouna
large-scale investment in the region's power sector (i.e. the construction of a new
hydropower plant);
-     meanwhile, SINELAC's tariff to be increased as quicldy as possible from SDR 40/MWh to
SDR 50/MWh;



- 29 -
-     this increase in SINELAC tariffs to be accompanied by an increase in the price to consumers
averaging between SDR 10/100 kWh and SDR 12/100 kWh.
After these discussions, SINELAC set its sales price for power at SDR 40/MWh as of January 1,
1991. In 1992, and with Board approval, the rate will increase to SDR 50/MWh.
TECHNICAL ASSISANCE
After the final closure of the IDA Credit, SINELAC decided that the technical assistance should be
terminated, because the consultants' services were becoming increasingly expensive and it could use the
services of the national electricity companies and local expertise instead, since these are now capable of
meeting its requirements. If the need arises, such services can be subcontracted.
THE 198 SUPPLY AGREEMENT
The 1984 electric power supply agreement (prepared in cooperation with the Bank) suffers from many
shortcomings. In addition to the technical issues raised in Part I of this Report, there appears to be
disagreement on the commercial and financial aspects.
(a) Method of Payment of SINELAC Bills
The supply agreement stipulates that SINELAC bills are to be denominated in SDR and are to be paid
by the national companies in their local currencies at the rate of exchange applied by the Central Bank
on the date of the billing.
Because current economic circumstances in CEPGL member countries are resulting in a considerable
devaluation of local currencies vis-a-vis the SDR, application of this measure is greatly prejudicing
SINELAC, and may jeopardize the financial equilibrium of this recently established organization.
if the requirement that payments be made in national currencies is to continue, the contract should
be amended so that the rate to be applied is that current on the day of payment.
(b)  The Standing Charge
The supply agreement links standing charges to SINELAC's working capital needs, whereas the
national electric power companies regard them as an entitement to a subscribed demand, regardless
of the amount of energy actually consumed. Standing charges cannot be viewed as a means of
meeting working capital needs.
The national power companies believe that the principle of the standing charge, as defined in the
supply agreement, is acceptable only if SINELAC's three customers take equal shares of the energy
thus guarateed. In reality, however, this is not the case.
SINELAC's excessive working capital needs wil mean that, from 1992, any company that does not
consume its allotted share will become responsible for financial charges without any direct
cornpensation. The result wil be:
-    Companies taking more than one third of Ruzizi U's output will benefit from this fincing.



-30-
SINELAC will receive financial advances in respect of nonexistent output.
Enterprises not consuming their shares of energy during the initial years of repayments on IDA
subloans will be considerably penalized. The prices charged by the various companies will be totally
disprcportionate.
In light of all these arguments, the national power companies believe that SINELAC's billing system
should be changed and a one-part tariff system introduced, i.e. one in which only the energy actually
demanded and consumed is billed.
Currently, SINELAC is studying various possible solutions to the problems presented by the national
power companies. Obviously, changing the principle govening billing will require the adoption of
an amendment to the Convendon establishing SINELAC and the inclusion of an additional clause in
the power supply agreements entered into with the three power companies.
PAMCL-  E M PARTS
When the plant came into operation, spare parts were supplied to SINELAC by the various
contractors servicing Ruzizi II. SINELAC was informed of the total cost of these spare parts but, because
the contractors do not manufacture the parts, it is impossible to detrmine unit prices. However, shadow
prices for operating purposes (i.e. accounting) were set by contacting the CEPOL national power companies,
comparing the parts with similar items, and deciding what weighting should be applied.
Every year, SINELAC draws up current and capital budgets itemizing all its requirements. I'uring
budget execution, orders are placed on the local or extnal market, and SINELAC occasionally calls upon
the services of the consulting engineer and some of the contractors with which it maintains very good
relations.
Institutional DeveloDmen
As of December 31, 1991, the SINELAC staff totaled 99, with the following breakdown:
-     Nonpermanent                                  3
-     Higher management and technical staff        37
-     Skilled workers                                     12
-     Unsklled workers                                    47
TOTAL                   99
The management and technical staff were hired in accordance with a predetermined organization chart
and clearly specified job descriptions. The organization chart reflects SlNELAC's operating needs, and is
not tased on any geopolitical criteria.
The number of lower echelon staff seems justified, since there are three sites involved (i.e. the
headquarters at Bukavu, the plant 25 km from Bukavu, and the dispatching center in Rwanda).
These employees were hired from among the commuities whose land was expropriated in order to
implement Ruzizi II.



-31 -
lhe Osrating Acon
In one and a half years, SINELAC's capitalization has been completely diluted.
This is mainly because of IDA's financial charges and the amordzation of intangibie fixed assets,
amounting to 77% of interest and commission on long-term borrowings.
Overall, allocations to amordzation and financial charges place an excessively large burden on
SINELAC's operating account (77% in 1989 and 82% in 1990; see financial statements forwarded to you
annually).
The negative financial result is partly due to the low income from power sales resulting from the
adoption of an excessively low initial tariff.
RMiyables
In 1990, SINELAC's overdue receivables increased sharply, reaching the level of 919% of its turnover
for that year.
As of September 30, 1991, nonaccruals totaled SDR 5,552,651.17, with the following breakdown:
- ELECTROGAZ (Rwanda)            SDR 4,582,049
-     REGIDESO (Burundi)                SDR  570,824.53
-     SNEL (Zaire)                      SDR  399.777.64
Efforts are being made to bring this amount down to a reasonable level (i.e. about 10%).
As an incentive to SINELAC's customers to pay their bills on dme, it is proposed that penalties be
imposed on all bills not paid within 90 days.
Cash Surlus
In spite of the negative results obtained over the two and a half years that the plant nas been in
operation, and in light of the efforts to be made by the shareholders to reestablish the company's
capitalization, the most pessimisc of financial projections show a very large cash surplus. A sound cash
management policy would make it possible to develop the power sector in the Great Lakes region.
Cost of Ruzi  as of lanur 31. 192
As of January 31, 1992, total project cost was SDR 89.6 million. A breakdown by item is shown
in the atached summary.



SINELAC considers that the dates of provisional accepace should be taken as the completion dates
because it was then that ownership was transferred.
Item   Description                                             Date of provisional acceptance
I   Civil works                                             June 16, 1989
2    Hydraulic equipment                                     March-May 1988
3   Turbines and auxiliaries                                May 8, 1991
4    Generators and auxiliaries                             July 5, 1989
SA   Powerhouse electrical                                   August 18, 1989
5B   Electrical equipment other than poweahouse              December 1, 1988
6    Construction of offices and housing                    Februay 8, 1991



- 33 -
SUMMARY   PROJECT COST AS OF JANUAY 31. 1992
Final proJect cost*....
Item                   Works                        Donor
Foreign exchange    Equivalent in SDR
1     Civil works                             IDA (Credit)       SOR 39,698,866[7C        39,698,86617I
Self-financing    SDR  4,226,610            4,226,610
Requirement       SOR   623,000               623,000
2     Hydraulic equWpent                      EOF tloan)         ECU  2,410,509            1,999,315
3     Turbines nd auxiliaries                 EDF (tloan)        ECU 6,060,960             4,705,320
4     Cenerators nd auxiliaries                Italy (grant)     ECU 8,513,031             5,135,227
SA     Powerhouse electrical                   Italy (grant)     ECU 2,337,458             1,852,569
SB     Electrical equipment other than
powrhouse                               EDF (loan)        ECU 6,099,572             5,160,422
6     offices and housing sOEGL (tlon)                           SDR  1,500,000            1,500,000
Self-financing    SoR    36,635                36,635
7     Supervision and studies                 EDF (grant)        ECU 4,415.692            EillegibleJ
Experts, consultants, audits and PPF    IDA (Credit)      SDR  1,503,168            1,503,168
Self-finrncing    BEF 5,314.685            CiLtegiblej
Pricing by BCEON                        AFNE (grant)      F      288,860           tillegibleI
Costs of studies, start-up  nd land                       FBU, RF, Z and
expropriation (self-financed)                             foreign xchane
Self-fin nced
Working capital at start-up
ED  and BDECL interest ant IDA                by          SDR 13,403,740Cfl        13,403,7401E?
charges paid during construction
Capitalized IDA interest due during        SINELAC
construction
=     TOTAL                                  Eillegiblel
**/  TsN: Figures reproduced as accurately a possible frm indistinwt original.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI, RWANDA, ZAIRE
RUZIZI 1I REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(CREDIT 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
PART IV:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.                @
Credit suekr    Project Tllel                    Ampnoal t             Purpo                                   Stetu
Date
Ca. 1S93-W             POWs Trnsmisaion         es/iwi                Coetruetien of a 110 KW transmisslio ltin  to 11*   stehtuntilly cmleted
*d 4bstriha tle                                 ala  1i to surrdis r4tioenl network;
constrctilen of *ubhetotien ubtr_woiosien lines
ad distrikut en morm   to stqply feur reginet
tam;: rebebillttlon of the lu  bwura  _tetiron
ond  lu ubure  lhalti I tr    l len line; ond
low semm dietributIon work;
Cr. 14WSW              hwe_r lotuok             0d/tI2s               Retab_litation of ttorun   h iholectric power        Ceploted
tA_Illtatlen                                  plant ad NV trenmloeion netwrk. twentructien
of noe transmision lines.
Cr. 1712-U             houes It                 019/M                Rtdmbdlitstlon of the hahit I powr otlon rd          Credit fully comItted;
the Klu region power n    ktwork,                   wo  oenrbok  with
ovwrtim likely.
Ctlerle datef _ews 30
IM2 will be rep eted.



- 35 -
2.
IDINTIFICATIO                                           imim
PREAPPRAIUL wusia. 0l30/U
APIUSL NINICl                      7/11/2               07/11/32 TO OVU
CR0IT NEOTIATIt                    02/U3                03/1/U TO 04/05/1
NlOW APPVAL                        04/1S/U              12/06/
CREDIT SIGAIRE                     05/S/153             04/0
CREDIT FPECTIWNE                  06/00/14             01/30/61
CREDIT CLOSING                     09/30/69             12131/m
PROECT CUTLEION                    03/51169             7/31/90 0
s      Catsructton *f th Mia1 11 Ptant Vm cOleted by July 'gm; con-lcesit Iets" foe plant start-i
-A finwclsl mw_    t mm in plte ntit July 1990.
3.     CrdtDbmms
(;US$ nillion)
-BANK FY
1984  1985  1986   1987  19U   1989  1990  1991
Appraisal Esdmato    11.0  11.0  30.0  41.0  44.2  44.6  45.0  45.0
ACua                 7.0    7.4   13.1  35.5  45.4  48.9  49.5  49.6 W
Acul u % of Et    67%   67%   44           87%   103%  110%  110%  110%
Date of Final D b l   Sqmbr  11, 1990
ActMul dlw  aude caced b c  touing SDR 297,965
( US$ 404,339 at d  1990 $US/SDR  cango rat).
.J/    Th difum  betwe  etmated and acta aimunt             s          rt  vimnL  bacen
die SDR, du    mcy of to IDA Crdit, and du US$ equva ud U In d  Dars dbuement
profie.



-36 -
4.      Project Implementation
Des-ript-on                           Plsmed                 Actiat
Campttion              CeWletion
.................................. ........................................................... ..... ........... .............
Clvft Vocks
Tendrs Docuants IssAd                  12/82                 11/82
Receipt of Tender                      04/83                 03/0
Contract Award                         10/8                  03/84
Works in progres                    01/84-09/86            01/85-01/89
HydrouLic Eoufcmnt
Tender doentslm  to Issued              04/83                05/83
Receipt of tendurs                      07/83                01/84
Contracts Award                         10/83                04/84
Work fn progress                     04/84-12/86          05/84-03/88
fTWr daumcnts issued                    04/83                05/83
Receipt of tenders                      07/83                01/84
Contract Award                          10/83                09/84
work in progrm                       06/84-09/86          09/84-09/89
Teder docusnts Issued                   04/a3                 06/83
Receipt of tendes                       07/83                 01/84
Contract Award                          10/8;                 07/84
Work In progre                        06/84-09/86           07/84-06/89
Powerhcuse Electrical
Tender dociente issuAd                  04/83                 07/83
Receipt of tenders                      07/83                 01/84
Contract Award                          10/83                 08/84
work In progres                       07/84-03/87           08/84-06/69
Switchina stations ord transmisslon Lint
Tendr dociunts lsued                    04/83                 07/83
Recipt of tede                          07/83                 01/84
Contract Award                     10/83                 10/8
Work in progres                      04/84-03/87            10/84-06/U
Roas and Housina
T r docuints Ifsd                       12/82                 02/87 I/
Receipt of tenders                      03/83                 08/ST
Contract Award                          06/83                 11/87
Work in progres                      07/83-12/84           09/87-09/39
Technical Assistance                 01/84-03/87           07/84-07/90
Unlfe In serxLlS                        03/87                 07/89
I/ Excludine roed building



- 37 -
S.      Prolect Cstf
A.      Project Costo
(M,S *1tl1en)
i - --                                  ErAl ctustCglrt Cost
Cfvit morks                                    48.9                            47.3
iydrautit Equlpuant                            4.0                              2.3
Turbino                                        6.5                              6.1
Genrstors                                      5.7                              6.4
Pouer Nme                                      2.8                              2.3
Eltetrall EqaIPUnt                            4.8                              5.9
Roab ain Rouswin                               1.9                              1.3
Engineering                                    5.2                              4.6
Techical Asst                                  Li                               Li
Total                                          84.9                            79.9
Source: Finsl report of tw Coutiwn  Enge   GrOCr_nt bAll 11



- 38 -
B.    Project Financing
(USS million)
Aggraisal gimate                               1=
F:oreilM     LQol         Total               lotal Finasncine I/
IDA          45.0         -             45.0                       45.54 L/
BDEGL          1.2          0.7          1.9                        1.36
EIB_/           -                         -                         5.72
FED           18.4          2.1         20.5                       18.94
Italy          8.1          0.4          8.5                        8.34
Burundi        -            3.0          3.0                         I/
Rwanda         -            3.0          3.0                        E/
Zaire          _            3.
TOTAL        72.7          12.2         849                        79.90
Source: Final Report of the Consulting Engineer, Groupement Ruzizi II
21    The breakdown of foreign and local financing was not calculated by the consulting
l!    The actal amount disbursed from the three IDA credits was USS 49.6 million; the
discrepancy between the consulting engineer's final cost acual disbursements is due to
the mebtod of calculation. The consulting engineer converted all monies into SDR's
using a flxed exchange of SDR I = USS 1.1.
41    Noe a co-financing partner at the time of project appraisal
,1I The Goverments of Burmndi, Rwanda and Zaire were to finance the local costs of
civil works and technical assistance, however these were finaned by the EIB.



- 39 -
6.    Project Rests
A. FiacilImoac
Apprasal     Esuinated
Estimate      Actual
Financial Raue of Retun                                  10%          2.5%
[v=zAsM=io
1.    The calculations are based on 1988 prices which have been updated to 1991 prices
using the unit values of exports of manufamred goods from developed countries.
2.    The life of the installation is as follows: (i) 50 years for civil works and (ii) 35 years
for electro-mechanical equipment.
3.    A third 14.6 MW unit enters into operation in 1994.
4.    Turbines are renewed after 35 years of operation (2023-24). At the end of the 50-
year period of the calculation, the turbines, renewed 13 years earlier, would have a residual
value of 60% of their renewal cost while civil works retain their full original value.
S.    The sales prices for the period 1989-91 are those applied by SINELAC.
6.     1989-90 sales in GWh are acuals. It is assumed that the plant will be fully utilized
from 1991 onward.
7.    SINELAC has adopted the Bank's recomme     n to gradual y    se its rate,
putting into effect the sales price of SDR 0.071/kWh (SDR 0.078/kWh in constant 1991
prices) in 1994 at the dme the third unit of the plant is placed in serice.
B Econmic ImDaCt
The Staff Appraisal Report also computed an economic rate of return at the
dismibution or retail level combined with planned projects to rehabiliate and extend the
iterconnected diributn systms of Bunmdi, Rwanda and the oKi     ins.  This rate et
retirn was deemind to be 8.9% without consumer surplus and 13.4% including consumer
surplus.
Beneft for this analysis were calculated using an average retail tariff in the region
This tariff wu based on the sles price which yielded an IRR of 10% for Ruzizi I (USS
0.084/kWh in constant 1982 prices afte transmission and distibudon loes) plus a margun.a
USS9.03/kWh represent  the costs of transmission and distbution. As the actual sales
price of power fom Ruzizi U bas been considerably below the level needed to achieve an [RR
of 10%, a calculation of the economic rate of return at the retail level is of little relevance



- 40 -
7. Sums of Covenants
Covenant                          Appicable                Remarks
Secton
The Borrowers shall cause their respective         CA3.01(b)        Partial co=liae.
utility companies to make available funds to                        Local contibutions for
cover the reqirements of the project.                               civil works and technical
assistance were financed
through a loan from the
European Investment
Bank. Capital
contributions for
SINELAC's working
capital requirements were
consistently paid with
delay; funds were
provided by the three
Governments in most
cases.
The Borrowers shall take all measures to           CA3.0l(c)        Nongco,nnIiaW_e. None
maintain their respective udlity companies                          of the three utilities were
financially sound, and wll adjus tariM to                           able to meet their capital
fulfill their finding obligations.                                  contribution objectives
due to their poor financial
situation.
The Borrowers shall take all legislative and        CAW.03          partial compliange. Major
other measures necessary for purposes of                             issues arose with regard
SNELAC's acquiring land rights in respect of                         to expropriatioa of land
land and shall not take any action to prevent or                     and personal properry in
intfere with sad acquisition or subsequen                            Zaire.
control.
The-Borrowers shall cause their respective          CA3.04          Comnled. Personnel was
uility companies to assign personel to serve                         recruited from national
as counteparts to the technical assiSant5                           utilities.
engaged by SINELAC.
The Borrowers wMll permit SINELAC to (a)           CA4.O1(a          Non-complia).
adjust tariffi in order to maimtain a 10% raue                       SINELAC's Board and
of return;                                                           General Assembly set a
sales price for power at
rates well below the level
needed for SINE:LAC to



- 41 -
ac:hieve the tarete
rate of return.
CA4.01(b)      Patial           At
(b) ensure that the bill mounts are                  end-1990,   three
paid in a 60 day period;                             companies have
outandig payments.
CA4.1I(c)      5:Qm-id
(c) provide SINELAC with
information to establish electrcity
demand projectsions; and
CA4.01(d)      Paral cowiiangc.
(d) duly perform all im obligations                  General Asembly
under the Convention                                 intervened in decision-
makine  when i had no
jurisdiction, and
pricing/financial
objectives were not
repected.
CA4.04         CoMpled.
'he Borrowers shall cause their
central bans to maintain free
convertibility between their
respective currencies for
SIELACs quarterly account
balance, as well as to provide it
wit the needed foreign exdchage.
CA4.05          olid
The Borrowers shall exchange
views with IDA on any proposed
project or investment in the power
sector which the Borrower
proposes to undertake
CA4.06            P     aD1li~ .
Ihe Governments of Burundi and                       Smdies were carried
Rwanda shall cause their repective                   out by EdF of France
utility companies to carry out                       for Rvwanda, and
studies of their tarff structur and                  frnished to IDA in
funish the results to the                            1986. Results of the
Associaton no later than                             studies were not
December 31, 1983.                                   implemeo.
REGDESO has
already reviewed its
tauif and implemented
its results in 1989 and
1991. A new tariff
increase is expected for
June 1992.



- 42 -
The Borrowers shall cause their utility           CA4.07                co=li&gce.
companies to carry out an annual revaluation                      Burundi bas completed
of the economic value of their fixed assets.                      but not yet implemented a
study. Rwanda had
completed a study (3/14)
but did not revalue
annually. Zaire has
completed a study under
the Shaba Rehabilitation
Project and revalued its
assets in 1987.
Audited financial statements of each utility      CA4.09          Complied (with delays).
company firnished to IDA, six months after
the end of the year.
Zair: SNEL shall carry out the following          CA4.10          Complied. Included in
works: (a) rehabilitation of Ruzizi I; (b)                        the Zaire Power E
rehabilitation of transportation and distnbution                  project.
system in Bukavu, Goma and Uvira and (c)
construction of a 30 Kv transmission line from
Kamanyola to Uvira.
ftrunudi: REGD)ESO shall carry out the            CA4.10          Complied. Included in
following: (a) construction of a transmission                     the Burundi Power
line from Ruzizi I1 to Bujumbura and O)                           Transmission and
construction of transmission lines connecting                     Distribution Project.
Rugumbo, Muzinda, Citidke and Bubanga.
Bwand : ELECTROGAZ shall carry out the            CA4.10          Comp1id. Included in
following works: (a) rehabilitation of the                        the Rwanda Power
electricity transmission system; (b)                              Project.
rehabilitation of the Ntaruka hydroelectric
plant.
Consultants and experts to be employed by         PA2.02          Comliance. All were
SINELAC specified in Schedule 2.                                  recruited except the
engineering consultant
with public utility
experience and
consultants intended to
prepare a training study.
Standard clauses related to procurement,     PA2.03, 2.04,        Compiied.
insurance, records keeping, exchange of views  PA2.05, 2.07,
with MDA, subsidiary loan agreement.         PA2.08



- 43 -
SINELAC shall e    Into contractual                PA2.06           Compied.
arrangements with REGMDESO,
ELECMROGAZ and SNEL for the sale of
power and shall perform all its obligations
under said contractual arrangements.
SINELAC shall take all actions to acquire land
and rights in respea of land required for the      PA2.09           Partial compliance.
Project, and shall furnish to IOA evidence that                     Major issues arose over
land and rights are under its ownership and                         expropriation practices in
control.                                                            Zaire, although
SINELAC has possession
and control of land
needed for the project.
Periodic inspection of dam and structures.        PA3.02(b)         partial compliajj . A
SINELAC shall propose appropriate                                   panel of experts visited
arrangements a year before expected                                 the site at regular
completion.                                                         intervals. SINELAC
began drafting procedures
for periodic inspection
during operation of the
plant, but these have not
been submitted to IDA.
SINELAC must appoint a Director General, a        PA3.04(b)         Complied.
technical director and a financial and
admnistrative directr.
Starting in 1984, SINELAC must furnish IDA          PA4.02          Qmp1ied. All audited
audited financial statements no later than six                      accounts have been
months after the end of the year.                                  fiurnished, albeit with
some delay.
The audit report covering the 1984 accounl3         PA4.03          Complied. Beginning in
shall include an evaluation of SINLACs                              1984, all audit repors
accouning procedures and recommendations                            included such cvaluation
for improvement. SINELAC to review these                            and recommehlaons.
with IDA and make any changes.                                      and SINELAC
incorporated thew



- 44 -
SINELAC shall prepare budgetary forecass             PA4.04          Non-com2liange.
and furish them to MDA before September 30                           SINELAC &lLaished
of each year.                                                        approved budgets, but not
tzs'r forecasts.
SINELAC shall prepare a report with                 PA4.05(a)         &n-complihwc. Two
recommendation as to the level of the tariffs                        studies were undertaken.
for the sale of electricity and frnidsh it to IDA                    SINELAC's proposals,
n' later ta 3 months before conmlezion.                              based on these studies,
were unsatisfactory.
S3NELAC to ensure that revenues from sale of        PA4.05(b)        Non-com2liance. The
electricity will be sufficient to obtamin a rate of                  sales prices set in 1989
return of 10%.                                                       and 1990 were far below
the level needed to fulfUl
the rate of return
covenant. Failure to
correct this caused IDA
to close the credit
accounts and cancel the
remaining balances.
SINELAC shall review with IDA before                PA4.05(c)        Comlied. This was
September 30 of each year its proposed tariff                        done in 1988,1989, and
for the following year.                                              1990.
SINELAC shall exchange views with IDA on             PA4.06          Comlied.
any proposed project or investment and shall
not undertake any proposed project in excess
of $500,000 without the Association's prior
approval.



- 45 -
8.      Use of Bank Rsourcus
Ilfl IMMI M 4 i E Ml  MYE  EYE  EM  EM  EYE EM2
Prqpanuon                          112
Apptsisa.                                   50.9
Nagodatiw.                                  59.1    *.2
Supoevion                                           14.6    10.4      3.0    11.0      5.3     13.4    14.S      7.3
Pioject Comphsion Report          -                                                                               U      Li
ToWa                               11.2    110.0  22.       10.4     3.0    11.0      5.3      13.4    14.S    0O.2    i.3
9.      Mission  Data
stages ot            month/   Me. of       Days In  Spcialization   Porfo WAnce         Types of
Project Cyclo         Year     Persons    Pleld      Neptsentod        Nating StatuA    Problem
f1t0i:trI       10/05/7     1          6         NA               MA               MA
Identificatfon tt    07/03/73               4         MA               MA               NA
Identification 11    04/06/81    1           *         MA               MA               MA
IDA meting           12/03/81    3           a         MA               MA               NA
Proepation t          02/09/82    4          2         IC               MA               MA
Preparation It       05/04/82    *           3         MA               NA               NA
Pre appraisal        06/30/82    9           MA        PAJC             MA               MA
Appraisat             07/06/82    *          is        fAJCJh           MA               MA
Supervision1         07/54        2          I         a, r             I
Suiprvieion 2         12/86       1          3         IN               1
Stuerviion 3         04/85        3          3         IN, PA           I
s$pervfsion 4        02/86        2         10          IN  FA          2                Af
Supervision 5        07/86        1          3         IN               2                AF P
Supervision 6        07/87        1          3         LN               2                Af P
Supervision T        05/88        1          9         EC               2                A  PM
Suprvisfion 8         1t158       I          7         IN               2                AP P
Supervision 9         05/89     .2           ?         IN  IC           2                AF P   CL TA E
Supervision 10       01/90        2                    PA: IN           2                AF P   CL TA EA
/&  IN. Engineer; FA. finwniaft Anatlyt; IC  geonmist
lb  Is No Problem or minor probltm  lo mdaerat P0eb _; te ftiaJ Proble_
Ic Af- available ftunds; TA. teeaicat o mistun peo U;gPX ProJect N_angnt
CL- cawpliwre with leopt douensts MAe ouwinroental sapeet



Bami. RWAN. ZAirE
RUZIZII It EGIOAL NDIOZLICUIC POJWCT
(CREDITS 1419-3Z. 1420-RU. 1421-ZR)
IITE Of UIUN ANALYSIS
9 19n1911 3212 iim  im  i  t                                im  mi imn 1m9 t9 sW                    m    ,m 2m                  19     mi 
OPATIU0
Cosis            0      0      0       0      0      0      0     .0       0      0      0    40?2   80     803     03    8 03     80322492           0     803    9639       83
COSIS          321    321    321    M        S4     S4   M1  103    16715  22352 23627   2142          0      0      0       0    8140       0     112 11792          0    -4425
SALES ( Q  )     0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0     61    126    140    140    140    140       600       200    200     2400    200        a
SALES
PRICE (SWA) 0.000  o. 000 0.000           0.000 0 .000  0.000 .  .000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.028  0.026  0.040  0.055  0.063  0.075    0.078      0.075  0.078    0.078   0.0
TOTAL SAUES
AEWCAE   S       0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0   166   3314      0     70    8820  10934   43M3        15620  I52    184    15620
NEW UNEuII  -321   -321   -321   -268    -S4    -54  -M1 -103" -16775 -22352 -23627   -54    2511   4797   6897   8017   1991   40                  305   302S   1780    6004S
El  .  0.247
I-A



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Pase   1 of  6
SOCIETE INTERNATIOAU D ELECTRICITE DES PAYS OES OAIIS LACS
SALAICE SHEET: AIITED 1984. 1965, 1966. 1987, 19U. 1989. 1990
(Special Orawing Rmlhts)
191       196       19W       1967      19t8      1989       1990
ASSETS
F ixed Asts                    617      32716     48        35271     17617  6185175  65147672
Work In Progres                10289670  2     M29     51591667  666537   065 9   222A519   161
Unpaid Called CapitaL             -       2923263   2262263   2048636    3582
Start-Up Costs                                        -         -                 15722060  12227972
Other L/T Assets                                                                               50891
t-Tem Assets
ofvabltes                    -                             -                 1301237   3299323
entory                        496        5/5      1373      14         1556   1030123   1043641
-h a0 Br**                   95062     68432    649800    199625   1603070    268216    670528
her                            1260    201526   1318120   158028S   1970607   2661506   1966953
Total S/T Assets             960    27M5OS   1969293   1782367   3775233   526104   7162U445
TOTAL ASSETS                   10367527 26909782  55891321  68532811  64807447 69394856  86475341
LIABILITIES
tal Si*scribed            12000000  12000000  12000000  12000000  12000000  12000000  12000000
-alled Capital             9163073   5566655   3695107   1826362    5S185        -         -
lied Capital               2816927   643334S   8304893  10173616  11941815  12000000  12000000
Retained Earnings                      -         -4316786  12094907
Total Equity                 2616927   6433345   8304893  10173616  11961815  7683214    -94907
Subsfdfes                       1675990   4632526   6365886    7377961   0520958   9909115  10134573
.ong-T*m Debt                  4619555    6515   2596258   466252  59247840  66457161  74530573
t Tei  Liblities
.is                         "28e s514"I  270c0   316874    M0                IW05    1315223
talized Interest          122211    35607      617307    924055   1214781    72O        335863
or S/T Asts                           118i5  115          225961    452008    619955    254016
Total S/T Libtlifties      1075055   3992   1525796   4316760   5096f34   33453          1905102
TOTAL LIABILITIES              10367527  !W,=2   591321  682811  U447  693948    8675341



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
SOCIETE INTERNATIOPULE DO CITICI  M    PM    NS GRMS LACS
OPERATING ACCOBMT: MAIII  "16, 199
(Spaecit 11"Wus  lisMe
1984      196       19        1         19        1969       1990
Sales In GM                        -         -                                       61        126
SDR/kWdh sold                                -                   -                  0.025     0.025
US cents/kM'i sold                           -                                      0.032      0.034
IEVEIIJES
Electricity Sales                -         -                             -       154160!  3621761
Other Reven                      -                   -                              7672       9452
Interest on Bank Deposits                            *                            10O       196710
Total Rvenue                                                                  162       362792
EXPENSES
Salari                           -         - e s2U                                           36014
Technical Assistnce                        -    -                                 15361    21s45s
Depreclotfon                     -                             *         -       211095   5300466
Splies                                     -                   -                   264       69554
Other                            -                   -                              47       12
Total Expees                             -                                     314335   6406061
Operating Incme                     -                        -                -149017  -2578136
interest and Comfsfions                                                            2 -  -  *-  2430   502199?
Exchane DOffrnc                   - f*e*e*                                          52167     535030
Operating Accoumt Subsidies                            **                           17056     357044
Net Incom                                                                     -4316786  77M121
1/ As the Ruzizi II hydroplant is SINELAC's sold                  u g MUt, ms ioome was
earned during the construction period, 195485.



_ 49 _
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
SOCIETE INTERNATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE DES PAYS DES GRANDS LACS
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS: AUDITED 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990
(Special Drawing Rights)
1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989       1990
SOURCES OF FUNDS
from operation                                                                          -4316786  -7778121
fation                                      -         -              -                 2621095   5300466
_ ing Account Subsidies                       -         -              -         -       -170588   -357044
tal                                      -         *                                    -1866279  -2834699
-Term Debt                               -       7031973  14311058  2069986  12585388   9209321   6073412
pment Subsidies                          -       2956536   1533360   1012095   1142977   1558745    582503
ed and Paid-in Capital                   -        693155   2512548   2102352   3458565    416453
-in-Progress                             -         -         -         -                78429810    360158
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                     -      '0681664  18356966  23814313  17186930  87748050   4181374
APPLICATON OF FUNDS
- in-Progress                            -      13393428  27908369  13074870  15989792     -          -
tfon of Assets                           -         31899     15382    -12827    -17654  67042203    768856
t-Up Costs                               -         -         -         -                17468530      -
r L/T Assets                                  -              -         -         -         -         50891
Change In Working Capftal                    -      -2743663  *9566785  10752270   1214792   3237317   3361627
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                 -      10681664  18356966  23814313  17186930  87748050   4181374



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 o
SINELAC's Forecast Balance Sheets 1983-1995
(USS million)
1983 1984 1985 1986  1987  1986  1989  1990  1991  1992 1993  1994  1995
Assets
.Plant In operaton  -    -    -    -    93.8 100.2 106.2 112.6 119.4 126.5 142.1 150.7 159.7
less:
depreciation      -       -    -     0.6   1.3   2.1   3.1   4.3   5.7   7.3   9.3  11.5
Net plant          -    -    -    -    93.2  98.9 104.1 109.5 115.1 120.8 134.8 141.4 148.2
1f 
Works In progressi  10.0 38.8 70.8 93.0          -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -
Current expenses 6
lnterest pald during
construction period, and
interest capitalized
during grace period
after construccion 0.1  0.4  0.7  1.0   7.1  13.9  20.9  28.7  36.9  37.1  37.3  37.3  37.3
less depreciation  -    -    -    -      0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.0   1.0   3.1   5.2
Net capitalized
expenses            0.1  0.4  0.7  1.0   6.9  13.5  20.3  27.9  35.9  36.1  36.3  34.2  32.1
Net odking cap.    -    -    0.1  0.2   1.2   1.5   1.7   1.9   2.5   4.0   4.0   3.9   3.8
Total Assets   10.1 39.2 71.6 94.2 101.3 113.9 126.1 139.3 153.5 10.9 175.1 179.5 184.1
Liabilities
Equity
-Capital I/        2.1  4.9  8.2  9.8  10.0  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2
-Retd Eazitng    -    -    -    -       0.9   5.1   5.1   8.5  16.1  21.2  32.6  34.0  35.2
-Qrants(Italy&FED)0.3  4.4  7.9 12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2
-Revaluation
reserve      -    -    -    -       -    5.6  11.5  17.8  24.4  31.2  38.5  46.6  55.1
Total            2.4  9.3 1.1 22.0  23.1  33.1  39.0  48.7  62.9  74.8  93.5 103.0 112.7
Long term debt    7.7 29.9 55.5 72.2  78.2  80.8  87.1  90.6  90.6  86.1  81.6  76.5  71.4
Total
Liabtiities    10.1 39.2 71.6 94.2 101.3 113.9 126.1 139.3 153.5 160.9 175.1 179.5 184.1
1/ Including LaLtial capital of $1.2 mililon representing the value of FED financed studles
for E6L.
Source:    Staff  Appraisal.Report  No.  4304-EAF



- 51 -                                    ANNEX  2
Page 5 of 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI. RWAND. ZURE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROZLECTRIC PROJECT
(CRZDITS 1419-BU. 1420-RW. 1421-ZR)
s*&EULC. rorcast income Statements 1983-199S
(US mill-on)
1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993  1994  1995
Sales In CUW
(before losses)                  27   57  .18   48   79   113  149   188   200
US cents/kWh sold                10.2 10.8 11.5 12.1 12.8  13.7 14.5  15.3  16.2
Operating Revenues                2.8  6.2 .2.1  5.8 10.1  15.5 21.6  28.8  32.4
Operating Expenses
Salar.& Materials                1.0  1.0  1.1  1.2  1.2  1.3   1.4   1.6   1.7
Depreciation on:
Assets                          0.6  0.7  0.7  0.9  1.0  1.1   1.3   1.5   1.7
Current expenses
during constructlon 
Interest capitalized         0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   -        -    2.1   2.1
Total                  1.8  1.9  2.0_ 2.3  2.4  2.4   2.7   5.2
Operating  n.:om                  1.0  4.3  0.1  3.5  7.1 13.1  18.9  23.6  26.9
Interest charged                  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  8.0   7.5   7.2   6.7
Net Income                        0.9  4.2   -   3.4  7.6  5.1  11.4  16.4  20.2
Dividends paid                          -    -    -    -    -       -   15.0  19.0
Earning. after                    0.9  4*2   -   3.4  7.6  5.1 11.4    1.4   1.2
paymnt of
Retained EarnLngs                          0.9. 5.1  5.1  8.5 16.1 21.2 32.6   34.0
Source: Staff Appraisal Report No. 4304-EAR



- 52-                                           ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
SINCLAC'Z ?ov.cave Funds Flow Statements 1983-1995
CUSS million)
1983 1984 198S 1986 1957 1988 1989 1990 1992 199Z 1993 199k  33*
Soures. of Funds
Generaced tro*-
operations
Operating.  ncose                          1.0  4.3  0.1- 3.5  7.7 13.1 tS.9  23.6 26.9
Depreciation                              0.8  0.9  0.9  1.1  1.2  1.1  1.3.  3.6  3.8
Total                           1.8  5.2  1.0. 4.6  8.9 14.2 20.2  27.2 30.7
Loan   and Crants
IDA onlent loan    5.3 14.9 17.1  6.5  0.6  0.6  -    -    -
FED loan            1.0  5.4  5.2  5.2  -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -
FtD grant           0.3  1.2  1.1  1.1  -    -    -
Iteal:a  Covt grant -    2.9  2.4 3.2  -    - 
30CL                1.4  0.5  -    -    -    -    -    -    _    _    _          _    _
RegC.ovt* for
proj.co@ponenes   0.8  2.5  2.9  1.2  0.2  0.2  -    -    -    -    -           -    -
Reg.Covts for
worting capital   0.1  0.3  0.4  0.4  -    -    -    -    -    -    -           -    -
Loan for Lnterest
durLtg F"*c
period  /. -    1.4  :    5.0  5.6  2.2  6.5  3.7  0.2                              -
Total      8.9 291 t32.4 22.6  6.4  3.0  6.5  3.7  0.2
Total Sources         8.9 29.1        22.6  8.2  5.Z  7.5  8.3  9.1 14.2 20.2  27.2 30.7
pplicatlon of Funds
Construct lon
expenditures
components          8.8 27.4 28.7 17.2  0.8  0.8  -    -    -    -    8.0   _    _
tnterest cpt-
aLized during
grace period
tDA I/            -    1.4  3.3  5.0  5.9  6.6  6.8  7.6  8.0  -         -    -    -
no                -    -    -    -    0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   -    -
Current expenses
during construction
period               0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  -    -    -    -    -    -    -         -      -
Total      5.9 7V.0 3Z.2 22. 6 .9  7.6  7.0  7.8  8.2  0.2  8.2   -    -
Debt servitc
Repayment           -    -    -    -    0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  4.5  4.5   5.1 Sl5
Interest            -    0.1  0.1 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1. 0.1  0.1  8.e  7.5   7.2 6.!
Total      -    0.1  0.t  0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3 12.5 12.0  12.3 11.8
DividendS             -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    15.0 19.0
Total
Applic^oaLns      I89 29.1 32.3 22.5  7.2  7.9  7.3  8.1  8.5 12.7 20.2  27.3 30.8
Increase in
WVrkLng Capital d                     0.1  1.0  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.6  1.5  -    -0.1 -0.1
orkLnx Cu tal        -    -    0.t  0.2  1.2  1.5  1.7  1.9  2.5  4.0  4.0   3.9  3.8
1/ The loan for interesc during grace prtod vowuld be 'c       alz d  and would be add*d
to the on-t*nt *&usto at the tL o such Interest would be normalLy due. The
differences La yearly amounts between the loan for interest during grace perl*. aM
IDA Lnterene  capitalized duting grace perCoS are the result of S1!MAC'e PaYre ts
of IDA credit serve charges and FED's Interest (Annex 20. tabliel) and paymes
of US54 atilLon La 1988. US53.5 mllion La 1990 and gS37.5 mlliton in 1991 co
reducea the Interest accrued durtna the wace cartod.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report No. 4304-EAF



