Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4303-EAF
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
May 5, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Burundi Franc (FBu)             Rwanda Franc (FRw)           Zaire (Z)
FBu 1   -   US$0.01             FRw 1  -  US$0.01            Zi    -   US$0.17
US$1    -   FBu 87              US$1   -  FRw 87             US$1  -   Z5.9
Measurements
GWh               gigawatt hour                -   1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kcal              kilocalorie                  -   3.97 British thermal units
kV                kilovolt                     -   1,000 volts
kVA               kilovolt ampere              -   1,000 volt amperes
kW                kilowatt                     -   1,999 watts
kWh               kilowatt hours               -   1,000 watt hours
MWh               megawatt hour                -   1,000 kilowatt hours
MW                megawatt                     -   1,000 kilowatts
toe               ton of oil equivalent        -   10,500,000 kilocalories
ton               metric ton                   -   1.1 US tons
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB              African Development Bank
BDEGL             Banque de dEveloppement des Etats des grands lacs
BEI               Banque europ6enne d'investissement
CCCE              Caisse centrale de cooperation economique
CEPGL             Communaute economique des pays des grands lacs
DANIDA            Danish International Development Association
DHER              Departement de l'hydraulique et de l1'lectrique rurale
EDF               Electricite de France
EGL               Energie des pays des grands lacs
ELECTROGAZ        Etablissement public de production, de transport et de
distribution d'eau, d'electricite et de gaz
FED               Fonds europeen de developpement
FAC               Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization
Government        Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire
KBO               Organization for the Management and Development of the
Kagera River Basin
KfW               Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
ONATOUR           Office nationale de la tourbe
REGIDESO          Regie de distribution d'eau et d'l1ectricit6
SINELAC           Socifte internationale d'electricite des pays des grands
lacs
SNEL              Societe nationale d'electricite
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
UNIDO             United Nations Industrial Development Organization
Financial Year = Calendar Year
REGIDESO (Burundi), ELECTROGAZ (Rwanda) and SNEL (Zaire)
SINELAC



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
I,       THE ENERGY SECTOR                                                         Page No.
Background ..............................................                     1
Local Energy Resources .............. .........  ,                            1
Energy Balances. . 0 .                                                        2
Burundi.d........                                                          2
Rwanda          wanda.. .             ............... . .                  2
Zaire (Kivu)...                                                            2
Recommendations  to Improve the Energy Sector.                                3
Burundi ........... .............  3
Rwanda.....   3
Zaire (Kivu) .3..........                              .       .3
II.     POWER SECTOR BACKGROUND
General...                                                                    3
International Institutions. . .                                               4
Power Supply Entities. . .                                                    4
Historical Demand for Electric Power.                                         4
(i)     Burundir.,d . ........ ... .                   .       . ...      4
(ii) Rwanda....    4
(iii) Zaire (Kivu) .5...              ..........                          5
Existing Generating Facilities                      ..... 5
Works in Progress                           .....5
(i) Burundi........    5
(ii) Rwandaa.....  6
(iii) Zaire (Kivu) ... ......                                             6
Rural Electrification                          .....6
(i) Burundi....    6
(ii)  Rwanda and Zaire (Kivu)....                                         7
Government Strategies in the Power Sectors               ...                  7
(i) Burundi....    7
(ii)  Rwanda          wa.................                                 7
(iii) Zaire (Kivu)....                                                    8
IDA Strategies in the Power Sectors                     ..... 8
Regional Development Plan                        ..... 8
(i)     Burundi ...... .            ...................................    8
(ii) Rwanda                            .....9
(iii) Zaire (Kivu)....                                                    9
This report was prepared by J. Boutan, mission leader, and
C.H.A Killoran, who visited Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire in July and
November, 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
III.   THE PROJECT
Background .................................................   10
Objectives of the Project                   ..                    11
Main Features ..............................................   11
Environmental Considerations                 ..                   12
IV.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates .............................................   12
Basis for Estimates ........................................   14
Financing Plan            ................,....   14
Implementation Schedule and Status of Engineering    . .    15
Procurement ................................................   17
Disbursements ..............................................   17
V.     THE BORROWERS AND THE REGIONAL IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Borrowers ..............................................   18
SINELAC - The Regional Implementing Agency           .     .      18
Training ...............................................    19
Audit..                                                        19
Budget ..20
Insurance..                                                       20
Project Monitoring .........................................   21
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Financing Plan ..........................................         21
Tariffs ..............................., 23
(i)  Burundi: REGIDESO                    .         .          25
(ii)   Rwanda:  ELECTROGAZ ..............................   26
(iii) Zaire (Kivu): SNEL                  .         .          26
Convertibility of Currencies                 ..                   27
SINELAC's Future Operations and Financial Position    ..    27
VII.   JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROJECT
Power Market .      .      .............................................   27
(i)    Burundi ..........................................  28
(ii)   Rwanda ...........................................   29
(iii)  Zaire (Kivu) .      . ...................................  29
(iv)   Interconnected System ........................... .     30
Requirements for the Project ...............................  30
Comparison of Alternatives - Least Cost Solution ...........   31
Rate of Return .............................................   31
Risks                ..................., 32
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached           ..               ................  33
Recommendation           ..                   ................ 36



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex  1  Energy Resources in Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire (Kivu)
2  Burundi Commercial Energy Balance 1973-1981
3  Rwanda Commercial Energy Balance 1975-1980
4  Regional Organizations
5  The Three National Electricity Companies:  REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ,
SNEL
6  Interconnected System Electricity Sales, Burundi
7  Interconnected System Electricity Sales, Rwanda
8  Interconnected System Electricity Sales in Zaire (Kivu)
9  Generating Facilities, Burundi
10 Generating Facilities, Rwanda
11 Generating Facilities in Zaire (Kivu)
12 Project Description
13 Financing Plan
14 Implementation Schedule
15 Disbursement Schedule
16 SINELAC - Legal and Organizational Framework
17 Project Monitoring
18 SINELAC'S Forecast Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements,
Balance Sheets 1987-1995
19 Assumptions in SINELAC's Financial Forecasts
20 Determination of the Minimum Purchase Level from Ruzizi II
by REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ, and SNEL
21 Sales of Ruzizi I and Ruzizi II Facilities in the Period
1983-1995
22 Comparison of the Economic Cost of Electricity Sold to Consumers
from Ruzizi I and Ruzizi II
23 REGIDESO's Power Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements,
Balance Sheets 1982-1989
24 ELECTROGAZ's Income Statements, Funds Flow Statements, Balance
Sheets 1982-1988
25 SNEL's Bukavu - Uvira - Goma (Kivu) Forecast Income Statements,
Funds Flow Statements, Fixed Assets 1982-1989
26 Interconnected System Electricity Demand
27 Economic Comparison between the Ruzizi II and Rwegura Projects
28 Diesel Generating Station - Estimate of Cost
29 Least Cost Solution
30 Economic Rate of Return for the Proposed Project
31 Sales of Ruzizi II, with an Annual Rate of Growth of 10% in
Regional Demand until 1990
32 Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP IBRD 15919 Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project






BBURUNDI-RWANDA- ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
1.01       Burundi, Rwanda and Kivu province of Zaire lie just south of the
equator in eastern central Africa, and in general have similar geographical
features, with mountain peaks (elevation 2,700 m) and high level plateaus.
Burundi with an area of 27,800 sq km and a population of 4 million, and
Rwanda with an area of 26,338 sq km and a population of 4.9 million, are
quite densely populated compared to Kivu with an area of about 257,000 sq
km  and a population of  4.3  million.    The  growth  rate  of  the  three
popuilations, averaging about 2.2% per annum, is low compared to other
African countries.
Local Energy Resources
1.02        The principal resource in the Great Lakes region 1/, firewood,
with its by-product charcoal, is rapidly being depleted in Burundi and
Rwanda,  and  in  isolated  areas  of  Kivu.         The  potential  for  more
hydro-electric development exists in all three countries but is costly due
to the sites having low capacity, and being widely scattered.   The best
hydroelectric resource potential is in the rivers which form the borders of
Rwanda with  Tanzania  and  Zaire.   There  is  little  potential  for  oil,
although there is a unique potential source of methane in the deep waters
of Lake Kivu.   Coal is mined at Kalemie,  Zaire, about 300 km from Kivu
province,and although large deposits of peat have been found in Burundi and
Rwanda, the potential has not been fully developed.   Hot springs occur in
several areas of Burundi and in the northern part of Rwanda, suggesting the
possibility of geothermal potential, but to-date this potential has not
been fully explored.
1.03          In June 1982 the  Bank puLiished Report  No.  3778 entitled
Burundi: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, and a second Report
No. 3779 entitled Rwanda:  Issues and Options  in the Energy Sector.   In
addition, in December 1981, the Bank prepared an Introductory Energy Sector
Review  of  Zaire.    Thus,  in  view  of  the  considerable  data  available
elsewhere, this section of the report on the energy in the region has been
abridged, and a summary of the energy situation may be found in Annex 1.
1/ Throughout this report "the region" refers to Burundi, Rwanda and Kivu
province of Zaire.



-2-
Energy Balances
Burundi
1.04        The demand for commercial energy grew very little between 1973
and 1977 (Annex 2).   However,  the general  economy of Burundi responded
to  the  efforts  of  the  Government  to  improve  the  industrial  and
commercial sectors to such an extent that there was an overall increase
in energy demand in 1978 over 1977 of about 25% in petroleum products,
and 15% in electricity.   In addition, the use of peat grew from 10 tons
of  oil  equivalent  (toe)  in  1977  to  510  toe  in  1978  following  the
formation of Office Nationale de la tourbe, ONATOUR,  (Annex 1).   During
1979, Tanzania and Uganda were at war, which prevented further growth in
the region and the total energy requirements were reduced about 5%.   The
use of petroleum products fell from 28,470 toe to 26,120 toe (about 8%)
while the annual demand of electricity rose from 8,914 to 9,370 toe (about
5%). The use of peat became more accepted, and increased 33% from 510 toe
to 680 toe.   Following the suppressed  demand  for petroleum products  in
1979, there was significant increase from 26,120 toe to 34,790 toe (about
33%) in 1980, while the demand for electricity rose about 24%, and the
demand  for peat reached 1,020 toe - a 50% increase.   The total energy
increase of about 31% in 1980 is misleading, because of the suppressed
demand in 1979.  If the period 1977 to 1981 is considered,the increise in
total commercial energy requirement rose an average annual rate of about
15% while electricity alone rose at an average annual rate of about 11%.
About 75% of commercial energy used in 1981 was in the form of petroleum
products, while electricity provided about 22% and peat about 3%.
Rwanda
1.05        As in the case of Burundi, the demand for commercial energy in
Rwanda in 1979 was influenced by the events in Tanzania and Uganda
(Annex 3).   There was zero growth in the demand for commercial energy in
1977 over the demand in 1976, while the growth rates were 13% in 1978,
5% in 1979, and 13% in 1980.  During the period 1976 to 1980 the increase
in commercial energy demand rose at an average annual rate of about 7%
while electricity alone rose at an average annual rate of about 10%.
Zaire (Kivu)
1.06      The growth in demand for energy in Zaire was small prior to 1975,
and due to the unfavorable economic climate with the fall in the price of
copper, there was virtually zero growth in 1976.  The internal disturbances
during 1977 and 1978 affected Kivu province as it did the remainder of the
country, and the demand for energy actually fell because of disruptions to
the economy.  Data from which a commercial energy balance could be compiled
for Kivu is not available although it is known that the use of petroleum
products was reduced significantly, because of transportation difficulties
from the seaport at Matadi on the Atlantic coast.



-3-
Recommendations to Improve the Energy Sector
Burundi
1.07       The report on energy contains a number of recommendations to
improve Burundi's energy sector. Insofar as wood is concerned, attention
should be given to training foresters, improving the forestry extension
program, the need to introduce conservation methods, and improvement in
chlarcoal manufacturing  methods.    Additional  studies  are  required  to
promote the sale of peat to industry and the domestic users.   With
regard to petroleum, in view of the high cost of products from Kenya,
the report contains a recommendation to investigate the possibility of
purchasing oil on the open market and bringing it in across Tanzania.
The principal issue in the electric power sector is the lack of a
planning unity to draw up a power sector development plan and to
determine priorities on the various alternative sources of potential
hydro sites.   IDA is presently appraising a third Technical Assistance
Credit which would have as a component, assistance to the Ministry of
Planning for apropriate energy studies.
Rwanda
1.08         Similarly,  Rwanda's report on energy contains a number of
recommendations  to improve  the energy  sector,  in particular,  a sub-
stantial increase in forestry extension work, improvement in cook stoves
and conservation of forests.  The need to identify and develop the peat
resources of the country was emphasized as a means of reducing the
deforestation now becoming a serious problem.   As in Burundi,  Rwanda
must pay a high cost for petroleum products imported from Kenya, and the
report suggests that an investigation be made on the possibility of
purchasing oil on the open market and shipping it across Tanzania. With
regards to electricity, the recommendations cover overall sector
planning and the integration of responsibilities now dispersed among
several government institutions; - Planning (planning), Natural
Resources (identification of hydro sites), Public Works (construction),
and ELECTROGAZ (operation and maintenance).
Zaire (Kivu)
1.09       The introductory review contained a number of recommendations
to improve the energy sector of Zaire.  Most of these do not apply to
Kivu province, but those that would affect this part of the country are:
--the  formation  of  a  national  energy  policy;  the  promotion  and
conservation of wood as an energy resource; generation of electricity by
mini-hydro; and the generation of electricity in thermal plants fired by
wood in regions remote from major power transmission systems.
II. POWER SECTOR BACKGROUND
General
2.01       The availability of electric power to consumers in the region
is in general limited to the major cities and towns, and it is estimated



- 4 -
that less than 2% of the total population in the region has access to
electricity.
International Institutions
2.02       Two organizations coordinate energy matters on a regional basis.
The  Energie  des  pays  des  grands  lacs  (EGL)  which  reports  to  the
Communaute gconomique des pays des grands lacs (CEPGL) formed by Burundi,
Rwanda, and Zaire, to coordinate energy matters affecting the Great Lakes
area; and the Organization for the Management and Development of the Kagera
River Basin (KBO) made up of representatives of Burundi, Rwanda, Tanzania
and Uganda, to oversee the development of the Kagera River basin which has
its source in Burundi and forms the border between Rwanda and Tanzania. A
description of these organizations may be found in Annex 4.
2.03      However, the foregoing organizations were designed and funded to
carry out studies, are not designed to construct and operate power
facilities.  Therefore, in order to develop, own and operate the proposed
Ruzizi II Project, it has been agreed by the three countries that a new
company, Socifte internationale d'electricite des pays des grands lacs
(SINELAC), would be formed to construct the project, and upon completion,
to supply electricity to the three power authorities (para. 5.02-5.08).
Power Supply Entities
2.04       The organizations which contribute to the electric power sector
in each country are as follows:   Burundi - Regie de distribution d'eau et
d'electricit6 (REGIDESO), Rwanda - Etablissement public de production, de
transport et de distribution d'eau, d'electricite et de gaz (ELECTROGAZ);
and the Kivu province of Zaire - the Socifte nationale d'electricite
(SNEL). A description of the organizations may be found in Annex 5.
Historical Demand for Electric Power
(i) Burundi
2.05          The average  annual growth in the demand for electricity in
Burundi was about 10% during the past four years, even though the load
growth in 1979 was only 5% when economic growth reduced due to the
hostilities between Tanzania and Uganda which interrupted transportation
facilities and slowed commerce to a minimum. The greatest increase was
in industry which averaged 15% over the 4-year period, and reached 17% in
the past two years. The growth in demand from the domestic sector averaged
about 12% annually, with no significant changes over the period. The
provision of electricity to public buildings and street lighting has grown
at a rate of about 3% annually, and REGIDESO's own needs for lighting and
pumping water increased at an average annual rate of about 5%.  Results of
the first six months operations indicate that this rate may be exceeded in
1982. Details are shown in Annex 6.
(ii) Rwanda
2.06      The annual increase in the consumption of low voltage electricity
in Rwanda grew at almost the same rate as the number of consumers.   The
number of consumers in this category rose from 2,445 in 1975 to 5,097 in



- 5 -
1981 -- an average annual rate of 13.0% -- while the consumption rose from
1.2.4 GWh to 25.9 GWh -- an average annual rate of 13.1%.  Growth in high
voltage energy (basically industrial) demand was somewhat slower however,
with an average annual growth rate of 7.7% raising consumption from 24.3 to
38.0 GWh in the same period.   The number of high voltage consumers rose
from about 79 to 102, an average annual rate of about 5.2%.   Thus, the
total demand on the system during the past six years grew at an average
annual rate of 9.7% and the number of consumers grew at an average annual
rate of about 13.4%.   The electricity sales for Rwanda from 1975 to 1980
appear in Annex 7.
(iii) Zaire (Kivu)
2.07       Records of electricity sales when the operations were under the
responsibilitv of REGIDESO (of Zaire) are not available. However, based on
the meagre uIata that was found, growth in sales of electrical energy in the
Kivu province of Zaire prior to 1980 has been virtually zero.  In view of
the high cost and difficulty of providing fuel oil to an existing brewery
in Bukavu, an order was placed for electric boilers to replace the existing
oil-fired boilers, and these were put into operation at the end of 1981.
The town of Goma was supplied with diesel generated electricity until
December 1980 when a connection was made to the Gisenyi generating plant in
Rwanda. The electricity sales in the Kivu province of Zaire are shown in
Annex 8.
Existing Generating Facilities
2.08       Until recently, the main sources of electricity for the region
have been two hydroelectric generating stations constructed. by the Belgian
Societe des forces hydroelectriques de l'est du Congo:   one at Ruzizi at
the outlet of Lake Kivu on the border between Rwanda and Zaire, and
another, Ntaruka, in northern Rwanda.   The Ruzizi generating station (two
6.3 MW units, 1978 and two 7.8 MW units in 1972) is now owned and operated
by Zaire's electricity utility, SNEL, while the Ntaruka generating station
(two 3.75 MW units, 1958 and one in 1962) is now owned and operated by
ELECTROGAZ.   Since then,  the Mukungwa hydroelectric generating  station,
(two units of 6 MW) located at the outlet of Lake Luhondo immediately
downstream of the Ntaruka station was compLeted in February 1982. At about
the same time, REGIDESO in Burundi commissioned the Mugere hydroelectric
generating station (four 2 MW units) about 25 km south of Bujumbura.  All
of the foregoing plants are interconnected by 110 kV, 70 kV, and 30 kV
transmission lines.   REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL also operate several
diesel-driven electric generating units in scattered locations throughout
the country.   In summary, the generating capability in the region is as
follows: Burundi - 13.4 MW (Annex 9); Rwanda - 30 MW (Annex 10); and Zaire
- 50 MW (Annex 11).
Works in Progress
(i) Burundi
2.09         Burundi imports almost all its electric power.   However, to
ensure that at least a strategic portion of its needs are under its
control, it is contemplating the construction of the Rwegura hydroelectric



power generating station (18 MW), to be financed by the Federal Republic of
Germany through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), Caisse centrale de
cooperation 'conomique (CCCE), Fonds europeen de developpement (FED), and
the Kuwait fund.       IDA was requested to consider providing part of the
funds required for the financing of this project, and a mission was sent to
Burundi (May 1981) to appraise the project.   Following appraisal,  it was
found that the proposed Ruzizi II hydroelectric power generating station
(the now proposed project) was the least cost solution for the provision of
electrical energy to the region, because it could provide about three times
the amount of energy at about the same capital cost, and IDA therefore
withdrew its interest in Rwegura (para 2.16, 2.17 and 7.12).  There are no
other capital works underway in Burundi, except the projects described
under the rural electrification program (paras. 2.12 - 2.14).
(ii) Rwanda
2.10       While there are no active generation projects in Rwanda, several
transmission line projects at 70 kV, 30 kV and 15 kV are being constructed
or will be started shortly.  The second Gisenyi hydroelectric project (1.1
MW) financed by KfW has not yet started, but the transmission line linking
the nearby Ghira site to Ruhengeri is expected to be completed by 1984.
The Federal Republic of Germany through KfW will also fund repairs to the
distribution system in Gisenyi, Kibuyi and Nyanza.   Belgium has provided
BFr 25 million for the construction of a line running north from Rwinkwavu
and in the vicinity of Kibungo, for which completion is expected in July
1983.    Switzerland  has  provided  a grant  of  SwFr  12  million  for  the
construction  of  a  transmission  line  running  north  from Kibuye,  to  be
completed by the end of 1982.  In addition to the above, FED has provided
funds for the following transmission line projects to be finished by the
end of 1984: Rwamagana south-east to Rusumo on the Burundi border; and
Ntaruka north-west to the Uganda border.
(iii) Zaire (Kivu)
2.11        The only active power project in Kivu at this time is a 110 kV
transmission line from Katana to Goma, which is being financed and
constructed by Yugoslavia.  Completion is expected at the end of 1984.  At
the same time, Yugoslavia will upgrade the line from Ruzizi I to Katana now
operated at 70 kV, to 110 kV (Map IBRD 15919).
Rural Electrification
(i)    Burundi
2.12      Rural electrification is the responsibility of the Departement de
l'hydraulique et de l1'lectrification rurale (DRER).   DHER is presently
studying sites at Busiga, Bubanza, Ruyigi, Kigwena and at three other
sites, for the construction of mini-hydro schemes (100 kW to 150 kW), but
the selection of proposed sites and the order of priority is in general
determined by the various lending agencies, some of which are encouraging
the replacement of petroleum and wood products by electricity.
2.13       No consideration has been given to the maintenance and operation
of these projects, nor have administrative and financial procedures been



set up to ensure successful operation of the projects. More appropriately,
responsibility for these projects should be that of REGIDESO, which has the
technical competence to ensure successful operation, and the managerial and
financial capability to integrate these new projects into the broad general
planning of the electrification of the country as a whole.
2.14        Two engineers financed by Belgium, are presently preparing pre-
liminary studies of ten potential hydropower sites in addition to those
identified by the Federal Republic of Germany through KfW and FED (Annex
1).   The Japanese Government  is now providing  ten l00-kW,  thirty-four
45-kW, and ten 17-kW diesel generating sets to provide electrical energy to
hospitals, missions, and other agencies in the public sector. Although
REGIDESO has made the necessary arrangements for shipment and installation,
operation and maintenance will be the responsibility of the individual
recipients, and because no energy will be sold, REGIDESO will have no
further involvement with these units.
(ii) Rwanda and Zaire (Kivu)
2.15      Rwanda and Kivu have no rural electrification programs equivalent
to those being carried out in Burundi.
Government Strategies in the Power Sector
(i)   Burundi
2.16       The Burundian Government has given top priority to the develop-
ment of the Rwegura hydroelectric power project in view of the overall
importance of the electricity sector to the economic development of
Burundi. The expected growth in demand for electricity in the neighboring
countries of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire which are supplied from the same
generating station at Ruzizi, requires the immediate development of new
facilities so that income-earning opportunities may continue to expand, and
serve the basic needs of the population.  Although Burundi lacks a compre-
hensive energy development plan, the Government is well aware of its over-
dependency on imported energy and wishes to replace this drain on the
economy by means of indigenous energy sources.   The creation of ONATOUR
(Annex 1) was a major step in developing its peat resources, and the
proposed Rwegura project (para 2.09) is another stage in the attempt to
reduce its dependency on foreign sources for the supply of energy, which it
regards as being vital to the economy and security of Burundi.
2.17        The Government is well aware of the problems involved in the
development of its own hydroelectric power potential and of the Rwegura
project in particular.  The complex nature of the Rwegura project with its
50m high rock-fill dam and 2200m long tunnel may result  in significant
delay in the scheduled completion.   Even after completion,  Burundi will
continue to be dependent on the importation of electric power from Zaire.
Thus, in order to meet its growing demand for electricity, Burundi has
recognized that the Ruzizi II Project is needed, and has therefore joined
with Rwanda and Zaire to develop it.



-8-
(ii) Rwanda
2.18       The Rwandan Government also gives extremely high priority to the
development of the Ruzizi II hydroelectric project in view of its expected
increase in demand for electricity, necessary for the economic development
of Rwanda. It is therefore concentrating its efforts on the development of
the proposed project.
(iii) Zaire (Kivu)
2.19        Kivu province is relatively cut off by distance from Kinshasa
and, in the past, the Zairian Government has not been active in respect to
Kivu's energy problem.  However, it now recognizes the need for additional
electrical power generating facilities in the region, and has joined with
Burundi and Rwanda in the promotion of the Ruzizi II project.
IDA Strategies in the Power Sector
2.20         IDA has not extended credits to the power sectors of either
Burundi or Rwanda, but in April 1982, IDA made a Credit No. 1224-ZR for the
Shaba  Power  System  Rehabilitation  Project  in  south-east  Zaire.    IDA
recognizes the importance of maintaining an adequate supply of electrical
energy from an indigenous source to the domestic and industrial sectors of
the Great Lakes region, and it is aware that the supply of electricity will
become  insufficient,  as  the  demand  in the  region  increases.   It also
recognizes that the rapid rise in the cost of oil during the past few years
has taxed the financial resources of the governments in the region.
Therefore, by providing a reliable supply of hydroelectric energy, IDA
expects to foster the growth in the economy of the region, by facilitating
industrial expansion, (i.e. glass factory, para. 7.04) which, in turn, will
provide new sources of income and employment.
2.21        IDA has also assisted in meeting the projected energy shortages
in the region through forestry projects in Burundi and Rwanda (Annex 1).
IDA's continued lending in the sector would assist in funding the region's
requirement for energy, for technical assistance and training to develop
local expertise to fill middle and senior management positions.
Regional Development Plan
2.22          Although EGL has been in operation since 1976,  it has not
developed an overall long-term development plan to supply electricity to
the region, and has concentrated all of its efforts on a short-term plan,
namely the construction of Ruzizi II hydroelectric power project.   After
both the Rwegura and the Ruzizi II power projects have been completed, no
additional generating capacity is expected to be necessary in the region
until after 1995.   Thus the task facing  each of the three electricity
authorities will be the extension of distribution to potential new
consumers,  by  the  construction  of  new  substations  and  transmission
facilities.
(i) Burundi
2.23        With regard  to the  foregoing,  IDA received  and  subsequently
approved a request from the Government of Burundi for a PPF in the amount
of US$400,000 to finance the following:



- a study to examine the need, to prepare an estimate of cost and
a schedule for the construction of a 110 kV transmission line
from the Ruzizi II generating station, either to Rwegura from
which power would be transmitted to Bujumbura over the proposed
Rwegura-Bujumbura line, or alternately to Bujumbu-a directly;
- a study of the economic location, cost and schedule of proposed
lines interconnecting Cibitoke, Bubanza , Rugombo and Muzinda
to the national grid;
- a study of the tariff structure of REGIDESO;
- the services of an accountant to assist REGIDESO for about one
year.
(ii) Rwanda
2.24          IDA received and  subsequently approved a request  from the
Government of Rwanda for a PPF in the amount of US$440,000 to finance the
following:
- a study to determine the estimated cost of rehabilitating the
transmission   system   and   carry  out   the   recommendations
contained in a report now under preparation, funded by the
Government of Switzerland;
- a study to determine the technical and economic feasibility of
rehabilitating the Ntaruka hydroelectric power project, built
in 1958;
- a study of the cost to provide a supply of day-to-day
consumables for ELECTROGAZ.
- a study to determine the technical and economic feasibility of
enlarging the interconnected grid by extending eight 15 kv and
30 kv transmission lines to serve an additional 18 towns.
- a revaluation of the assets of ELECTROGAZ.
- a study of the tariff structure of ELECTROGAZ.
(iii) Zaire (Kivu)
2.25          IDA received  and subsequently approved a request  from the
Government of Zaire for a PPF in the amount of US$440,000 which they feel
necessary to carry out works in the Kivu province of Zaire as follows:
- a study of the technical and economical feasibility of the
rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I hydroelectric plant (built in
1958), together with an estimated cost of providing a supply of
spare parts and consumables.
- a  study  of  the  rehabilitation  of  the  transmission  and
distribution systems in Bukavu, Goma and Uvira;



- 10 -
- a study of the economic and technical feasibility of replacing
the existing 15 kV transmission line from Bujumbura to Uvira
with a new 30 kV line.
- a study of the technical and economic feasibility of
constructing a 6 MW thermal electric generating plant fueled by
wood, including a study and recommendations on the necessary
forest reserves for the facility.
2.26        The Governments feel that their requests for studies to enlarge
their distribution systems and to rehabilitate the existing facilities, are
urgently needed.  These, together with the studies of training needs which
form a component of this project would provide a reasonable degree of
security for their electricity services.   The Governments expect that the
work based on these studies would be carried out in parallel with the
construction of the Ruzizi II project, so that when the power from Ruzizi
II becomes available, new consumers in the area would receive immediate
benefits, and receive a more reliable electric power supply. IDA believes
that certain items of work are essential  to the project.   Thus during
negotiations, agreement was reached with the three Governments that the
various tasks for which PPFs were requested and approved (paras 2.23, 2.24
and 2.25) would be carried out before the commissioning of the Ruzizi II
project.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01          The expected growth in demand for electrical energy led the
three governments to form Energie des pays des grands lacs (EGL) in 1974
(para. 2.02) whose prime responsibility was to plan the least cost method
of providing electricity to the Great Lakes region.  As a result, FED was
requested to provide funds for a study of a possible hydro development on
the Ruzizi River to supply the future needs of the region.   Tractionel
(Belgium), was retained to perform this study, and their 1977 report
proposed the development of 120 MW on the Ruzizi River.  IDA reviewed the
report and when it was found that the region did not require such a large
increase in the supply of electricity, IDA advised EGL that the project was
too large, and that further studies on a smaller and less costly project
should be made.  In 1979, EGL requested Tractionel to review their previous
studies, and a new study financed again by FED, covering the Ruzizi II
Project (40 MW) which developed only a portion of the head at the site, was
completed in 1980. The detailed feasibility study confirms that the Ruzizi
II hydroelectric project was the least costly means of providing electric
power to the region by 1987.
3.02          As a result,  the Governments  of Burundi,  Rwanda and Zaire
requested IDA to give consideration to providing part of the funds
necessary to construct the Ruzizi II hydroelectric generating station.
Objectives of the Project
3.03        The main objective of the project is to provide an additional
supply of electrical energy to Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, by early 1987, so
as to sustain the economic growth of the industrial, commercial and



- 11 -
domestic sectors of the country, and the proposed project is the least
costly means of meeting this objective.  To achieve the above, the project
has set up a new international company, SINELAC, which will produce and
sell power to the local electrical utilities.   Other objectives  are to
train managerial and technical staff with the help of financial and
technical advisers provided under the technical assistance component of the
project, and to determine the type and scope of training needed to ensure
continued reliable service.
Main Features
3.04        The main features of the project may be found in Annex 12, and
are summarized as follows:
- a dam 11 m high;
- an overflow spillway and two 8 m x 6.5 m sluice gates;
- a 500 m tunnel 6 m in diameter;
- a 50 m steel penstock;
- a powerhouse;
- two 13.3 MW hydroelectric generating units with space for a
third similar unit;
- a switching station;
- 15 km of 110 kV transmission line;
- local access roads;
- staff housing;
- consulting engineering;
- a management team;
- a panel of experts;
- a study of training needs; and
- consultants for a tariff study for SINELAC.
3.05         A concrete gravity dam would be constructed at the head of a
series of rapids on the Ruzizi River to regulate the river flow for the
generation of electric power.   The main river control is at the Ruzizi I
generating station at the outlet of Lake Kivu about 15 km upstream, where
with the large area of the lake, maximum regulation may be obtained with a
fluctuation in water level of about one meter.   Thus, only daily pondage
would be provided at Ruzizi II, and the maximum water level would exceed
the historical maximum water level at the site by about 2.2 m.   A free
overflow section and 2 sluice-gates would be incorporated in the dam with
sufficient capacity to pass the maximum expected flood flow.  An intake,
with trash racks and gates would control the flow through a 6 m diameter
tunnel 500 m long to a conventional above ground powerhouse located near
the foot of the rapids.  Two 13.3 MW generating units, driven by Francis
turbines designed to operate under an average head of 30 m would be
installed in the powerhouse, together with all necessary control and
protection equipment.  Space would be provided for a third similar unit to
be erected at some future date when the demand for electricity warrants its
installation (about 1993). The initial two-unit installation would provide
about 140 GWh of electrical energy and about 200 GWh with the third unit,
in an average water year.   Three single-phase transformers and one spare
transformer would be located in an outdoor switching station adjacent to
the powerhouse, raising the power produced to 110 kV for transmission to



- 12 -
Rwanda and Zaire via the Mururu sub-station, adjacent to Ruzizi I.
Provision would be made in the switching station for the addition of
facilities to transmit power to Burundi, when the transmission line has
been completed (para. 2.26).
3.06         In addition, the project would include a technical assistance
component, as well as consultants for the detailed design and supervision
of the project.   The technical assistance would comprise the provision of
technical and financial management assistance during the construction of
the project, and after commissioning, to assist SINELAC in the operation
and maintenance of the facility. The services of a panel of experts would
also be required to advise on technical aspects of the dam.   The project
also includes a study of training needs and the preparation of a suitable
training program for the three electricity authorities.
Environmental Considerations
3.07        The dam and generating station would have little effect on the
daily lives of the inhabitants. in the immediate vicinity of the proposed
site, because the river water upstream of the dam would be raised only
about  2  m  above  its  present  maximum  level  during  a  peak  flood.
Compensation would be paid for the removal of about 30 dwellings housing
200 persons, which require relocation to provide space for construction
activities and access roads.   All water diverted into the powerhouse to
drive the turbines, would be returned to the river about 600 m downstream,
unadulterated.   A fish ladder would be incorporated  in the facility to
permit the passage of fish around the powerhouse and dam during the
migration season.
3.08         During negotiations,  agreement was reached with SINELAC that
after completion of the project, the dam would be inspected periodically by
a panel of experts and the reports on their findings would be submitted to
IDA for comment.
3.09           The  project  would  be  located  on an  international  inland
waterway.    Therefore,  the  downstream  states  have been informed of  the
project, and they have expressed no objections.   The Governments of Zaire
and Rwanda have also agreed not to act or allow any action to be taken
which would affect the availability of the flow from Lake Kivu which is
essential to the project.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01           The total project cost is estimated to be US$84.9 million
equivalent, not including duties and taxes which the three Governments have
agreed would not be levied on the project.   The project foreign exchange
component is estimated to be US$72.7 million equivalent, about 86% of total
project cost, not including interest during construction.   The estimated
cost of the principal features of the project are shown in a table on the
following page.



- 13 -
Estimate of Project Costs
(US$ thousands)
Foreign
as % of
Local     Foreign      Total      Total
Civil Works                         5,000       31,300    36,300         86
Hydraulic Equipment                   200        2,800      3,000        93
Turbines                              200        4,700      4,900        96
Generators                            200        4,200      4,400        95
Powerhouse Electrical                 200        2,000      2,200        91
Switching Station and
Transmission Line                  700        2,900      3,600        83
Roads and Housing                     500          900      1,400        64
Engineering                           500        3,500      4,000        87
Technical Assistance                2,100        3,000      5,100        59
BASE COST                           9,600       55,300    64,900         85
(September 30, 1982 prices)
Contingencies
Physical                         1,000        6,800      7,800        87
Price                            1,600       10,600    12,200         87
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 12,200       72,700    84,900         86
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION
(Capitalized)                      46,000        -         46,000         0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED             58,200       72,700   130,900         56
Note: 1)  No contingencies assumed on technical assistance.
Physical contingencies of 15% added to civil works and roads and
housing; 10% on other works.
Price contingencies were added to base cost plus physical contin-
gencies  as  follows:    1982 and  1983  8%;  1984  7.5%;  1985 7%;
1986 6%.
2) Duties and taxes would not be levied on the project.
3) Technical assistance includes management team, panel of experts,
study of need for a training school, SINELAC's audit during
construction period, and PPF of US$195,000, and working capital
of US$1.2 million (equivalent).
4) The estimates of cost have not been presented in local currency
because of the frequent and steep devaluations of the zaire
relative to the US Dollar, resulting from the country's economic
condition.



- 14 -
Basis for Estimates
4.02             Project  cost  estimates  were  prepared  by  the  consultant
Tractionel of Belgium, on the basis of costs in mid 1980.  In view of the
significant size of this investment relative to the economy of the area,
there was a need to verify the accuracy of the cost estimates, and in order
to obtain a second opinion, IDA requested EGL to retain consultants to
review and update the cost to September 1982 prices.   Upon completion,
these revised cost estimates by Lahmeyer of Germany were reviewed by IDA,
and   were  found to be reasonable.   Physical contingencies  of  15% were
applied to the cost of the civil works and roads and housing, because of
the possible large variation in quantities due to foundation and structural
conditions.    Physical  contingencies  of  10% were  applied  to  all  other
items.  Except for the technical assistance component, price contingencies
of 8% in 1983; 7.5% in 1984; 7% in 1985; and 6% in 1986 and 1987 were
applied to the consulting engineer's base cost plus physical contingencies
to  obtain  the  total  project  cost of US$84.9 million.   Interest  during
construction would be capitalized, and would amount to US$46.0 million over
the eight-year grace period for the onlending of the IDA credit, and the
ten-year grace period for the FED credit.
Financing Plan
4.03        The proposed IDA credits of US$ 45.0 million would finance 53%
of the estimated project cost (US$84.9 million) and 62% of the estimated
foreign component of the project (US$72.7 million), in both cases excluding
interest during construction. It would be used to finance:
a) 87% of the total expenditure for the civil works contract;
and
b) 100% of the foreign cost of technical assistance and
repayment of the three PPFs of US$65,000 (US$195,000).
4.04        A proposed loan of US$1.9 million equivalent from the Banque de
developpement des Etats des grands lacs (BDEGL) would be used to finance
100% of the cost of the road and housing contract.
4.05          A proposed loan of US$16.8 million equivalent and a grant of
US$3.7 equivalent from FED would be used to finance:
a) 100% of the cost of the hydraulic equipment;
b) 100% of the cost of the turbines;
c) 100% of the cost of the external electrical equipment; and
d) 100% of the cost of engineering design and supervision.
4.06        A proposed grant from the Italian Government in the amount of
US$8.5 million equivalent would be used as follows:
a) 100% of the cost of the generators; and
b) 100% of the cost of the powerhouse electrical equipment.



- 15 -
4.07        The Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire would each provide
a sum equivalent to US$3.0 million to cover the local cost for the civil
works and the technical assistance component.
4.08          7xternal financing, US$75.9 million, would cover 100% of the
foreign exchange and 26% of local costs equivalent to 90% of the estimated
project cost, excluding interest during construction.   The IDA credit to
each of the governments would be on standard terms of 50 years including a
10-year grace period with an annual service charge of 3/4% on the principal
withdrawn plus a commitment charge of 1/2% on the principal not withdrawn.
A condition of effectiveness would be the fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to disbursement of cofinancier's funds.  Funds from FED would be
in two parts:  a grant of US$3.7 million equivalent, and a loan of US$16.8
million equivalent on the basis of 1% per annum for 40 years, with a
10-year grace period.  The BDEGL loan would be at a rate of 7.5% per annum
for thirteen years including a three-year grace period, and the Italian
funding is a grant.   The project cost borne by the governments would be
financed from the electric energy sold by REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL. A
summary of the financing plan, as detailed in Annex 13, follows.
Summary of Financing
US$ millions)
Local       Foreign         Total
IDA          -           45.0           45.0
BDEGL         0.7          1.2            1.9
FED           2.1         18.4           20.5
Italy        0.4          8.1            8.5
Burundi       3.0         -               3.0
Rwanda        3.0          -              3.0
Zaire         3.0          -              3.0
SINELAC     46.0          -             46.0
58.2        72.7           130.9
Implementation Schedule and Status of Engineering
4.09            The  implementation schedule  is based  on full  commercial
operation of the  two generating  units  by March  31,  1987.   All  three
governments are anxious that the schedule be maintained because of the
potential power shortages which may occur during the dry season of 1986
(July-September), and which, with additional load growth, undoubtedly would
be more severe during the dry season of 1987.  There is a good possibility
of adhering to the project construction schedule, because the civil works
are relatively simple, and the underground works are not extensive.   The
main source of delay might be due to the fact that the site is land-locked,
and the difficulties of transportation from Mombasa to the site.  Details
of the schedule are given in Annex 13.



- 16 -
4.10          A feasibility  study for the proposed Ruzizi II project was
completed by Tractionel of Belgium in February of 1980, with funds provided
by FED, and since that time, Tractionel has completed the preliminary
design  and prepared  and  issued  the  contract  documents.    The  cost  of
engineering services,  travel and living expenses,  including an allowance
for the analysis of bids,  is estimated  to be US$370,000.   Based on 39
man-months of service, the average cost for engineering would be about
US$9,500 per man-month.   EGL, acting for SINELAC,  has decided  that  the
Tractionel contract would be terminated after assisting in bid evaluation,
and that new consultants would be retained to take part in the analysis of
tenders and to provide all further design and supervision of construction
until commissioning of the facility.   EGL has been informed that the new
consultants would have to be acceptable to IDA.  Of the total of about 300
man-months which would be required by the consultants for the design and
supervision of this project, approximately 170 man-months would be expended
in the Great Lakes region and the remainder in the consultant's home
offices. The total cost of the engineering contract (including preliminary
design and contract documents) is estimated to be US$4.0 million, of which
US$3.5  million  would  be  in  foreign  exchange.    The  average  cost  per
man-month including the services, travel and miscellaneous expenses is
estimated to be US$13,300.
4.11       At IDA's request, EGL requested Tractionel to provide additional
engineering services, including the redesign of the switching station and
the design of a fish ladder, at an estimated cost of US$80,000 based on
services at US$9,100 per man-month.   EGL also engaged  the  services  of
Lahmeyer, for a lump sum cost of DM 72,000 (US$32,000), to review the
design criteria and assumptions so as to ensure that the various components
ofl the project would be capable of carrying out the desired functions and
that a successful project would ensue.  This consultant also prepared a new
estimate  of  capital  cost  for  the  project  for  a  fee  of  DM  88,000
(US$40,000).   This work has now been completed and the comments,  where
appropriate, would be incorporated into the design of the project.  Cost of
the foregoing work by Tractionel and Lahmeyer, and the cost of a legal
adviser to provide advice and draft the agreement among the Governments to
form SINELAC, the by-laws of SINELAC (para. 5.02) and the sales contracts
(para. 6.06), have been provided by three PPFs issued by IDA in the amount
of US$65,000 to each country.
4.12          In accordance with  IDA requirements,  SINELAC  agreed  during
negotiations to retain the services of a management team to continuously
review the technical and financial aspects of the project, and to provide
advice on construction and design problems during various stages of the
project (para. 5.05).  It is estimated that the 12 man-years of technical
assistance which would be required during the implementation of the
project, and the additional six man-years of technical assistance during
the first two years of operation would require foreign funds of about
US$2.4 million and local funds of about US$650,000 - an average rate of
about US$14,000 per man-month for consulting services, travel and living
expenses.
4.13           In accordance  with  IDA  practice,  the  design  and  general
conception of the dam has been reviewed by a separate consultant (para.
4.11). In addition, during negotiations SINELAC agreed to retain a panel



- 17 -
of  experts  who  would  make  periodic  inspections  of  the  dam  during
construction and afterwards, so as to ensure that all safety precautions
have been undertaken.  The total cost for these services is estimated to be
about US$200,000 or US$12,000 per man-month.
4.14        IDA has estimated that a study of the training needs of the
region, and the possibility of constructing a school and training
facilities would require from 8 to 12 man-months and is estimated to cost
US$100,000 or about US$8,500 per man-month including services, travel and
living expenses.
Procurement
4.15       Procurement for work and material to be financed under the IDA
Credit would be limited to the civil works contract and the technical
assistance component of the project.  Tenders for the civil works contract
have been called from prequalified contractors, who have responded to a
published notice in accordance with IDA guidelines for international
competitive  bidding.   Tenders  for  the  civil works  contract have  been
received and although a full analysis has not been completed, preliminary
indications are that the estimate of cost for this component of the project
financed by IDA, would not be exceeded.   Procurement for mechanical and
electrical equipment for the project would be in accordance with the
individual lenders' requirements.   The technical experts funded under the
technical assistance component, would be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines on the use of consultants by the Bank and its borrowers.
Disbursements
4.16       The proceeds of the three credits would be disbursed over six
years on the following basis: 87% of the total expenditure for the civil
works, and 100% of the foreign cost of technical assistance.  The remaining
costs would be disbursed from BDEGL, FED and Italian funds and from the
three Governments (para. 4.04 - 4.07).   All expenditures would be fully
documented by SINELAC.  The closing date for the credits would be September
30, 1989 and any savings which may accrue due to lower purchase prices, or
if all of the contingency funds are not utilized, would be cancelled. The
disbursement schedule, found in Annex 15, differs from the average power
project and Zaire project disbursement profiles, because IDA would be
providing funds for only the civil works, which would be below the total
project cost,and the technical assistance component would be spread more or
less evenly over several years (paras 4.12 - 4.14).



- 18 -
V. THE BORROWERS AND THE REGIONAL IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Borrowers
5.01       The borrowers would be the Republic of Burundi, the Republic of
Rwanda and the Republic of Zaire, which would receive from IDA SDR 13.8
million (US$15 million) each and would onlend the SDR 41.4 million (US$45
million) to SINELAC.
SINELAC - The Regional Implementing Agency
5.02       On July 9, 1982 in Brussels, after a thorough review by EGL and
the co-lenders including IDA, the Ministers of Energy of Burundi, Rwanda
and Zaire approved a draft agreement among the three Governments to form
the international company, SINELAC, with a view to the construction and
operation of the Ruzizi II hydroelectric power generating facilities. They
further agreed to obtain formal ratification of the final agreement and
SINELAC's by-laws by the three Governments.   During negotiations it was
agreed that SINELAC would take all necessary steps to acquire land and
rights in respect of land needed for carrying out the project and operating
the Ruzizi II facilities. Evidence of the transfer of such land and rights
to SINELAC would be a condition of effectiveness of the project as well as
the presentation of an "accord de siage" concluded between the host
countries, i.e the Republics of Zaire and Rwanda, and SINELAC. The general
legal organizational framework of SINELAC is given in Annex 16.
5.03         SINELAC, with its head office in Bukavu, Zaire, would be an
international public company established for a 50-year renewable period,
and the three Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire would contribute
equally to its capital. Although SINELAC would be formed initially for the
Ruzizi II project, it could acquire and manage other electric power
installations.   SINELAC would be governed by the rules of the agreement
and its own by-laws, and for cases that are not covered by these rules and
regulations by the Investment Code of the Communaute economique des pays
des grands lacs (CEPGL), and by the laws of the country of its
headquarters,  Zaire.   SINELAC would operate as a commercial entity with
financial objectives defined initially in relation to the project and its
electricity tariffs would be established at a level which would produce a
satisfactory rate of return for the project (para. 6.04).
5.04      SINELAC would be governed by a General Assembly consisting of the
three Ministers of Energy.  This General Assembly would meet once a year
and its responsibility would be to appoint or dismiss the directors, the
general manager, the account controllers (commissaires aux comptes) and the
auditors, and to discuss the financial statements of each previous year.
The Board of Directors would consist of six members, two from each
country.    A  three  member  management  committee  would  be  in  charge  of
SINELAC's  day-to-day  operations.    SINELAC's  General  Manager  would  be
appointed by the General Assembly and the Board of Directors would have the
responsibility of appointing and removing the other two members of the
management committee.   The three members of the committee would be from
different countries.  During negotiations it was agreed that SINELAC would
consult with IDA before appointing a new general manager, a technical



- 19 -
director or a financial  and administrative  director.   Appointment  of a
general manager satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed project.
5.05      EGL Is now in charge of the preparation of the proposed Ruzizi II
project, and FED has suggested that for continuity, the present general
manager of EGL (a Zairian) be appointed general manager of SINELAC.  This
is acceptable to the borrowers and the lenders, including IDA, and the
first General Assembly of SINELAC would confirm his appointment.  During
negotiations SINELAC provided assurances that it would employ consultants
satisfactory to IDA to carry out the project.  FED has already funded and
recruited an administrative and financial assistant to EGL's general
manager, who would be employed eventually by SINELAC.  However additional
management expertise is required during   the construction period and for
the  first  two years  of operation  of Ruzizi  II.   Therefore  additional
assistance to the general manager would be provided by expatriates financed
by IDA (para. 3.06).  It was agreed at negotiations that a management team
composed of one civil and one mechanical and electrical engineer, and a
chief accountant, all with appropriate experience from an internationally
known utility company, would be retained by SINELAC to supervise the work
of the consultants (para 4.10) in its dealings with the contractors, to
monitor the construction and advise and assist in the initial operation of
the facility.  The civil engineer would be appointed by December 31, 1983,
the chief accountant by June 30, 1984, and the mechanical and electrical
engineer no later than December 31,  1985.   The last  two experts would
remain employed for at least two years after the commissioning date.  Upon
commissioning, about 60 staff would be required.  About one-third would be
semi-skilled   technical   and   administrative   assistants   and   during
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the three national electricity
companies would second appropriate personnel to SINELAC.
5.06        Training - Each expatriate on the management assistance team
recruited by SINELAC, would have terms of reference which would specify
responsibility for training one or two local counterparts for five years to
assist and eventually replace him before March,  1989.   Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that suitably qualified and experienced
personnel would be assigned by REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL to SINELAC to
work as counterparts as and when needed.
5.07      As there is no technical training facility in Burundi and Rwanda,
and SNEL's training school at Sanga in Bas Zaire is 1,500 km distant from
the Ruzizi II site, adequate facilities would be necessary for the training
of personnel for the Ruzizi II plant and for the three national electricity
companies, i.e. REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ, SNEL's Eastern region and SINELAC.
However, because the detailed requirements for the three regions are
unknown, IDA agreed to include only studies for training facilities in this
project. Thus a component of this project would be a study, carried out by
consultants acceptable to IDA and selected before December 31, 1983, as
agreed at negotiations, to define the scope and the size of the training
school, the training program, the number of instructors and training aids,
its location, and the funds required to operate and maintain it (para.
4.14).   The establishment of the school would be carried out separately
from the Ruzizi II project.



- 20 -
5.08         Audit  - SINELAC's  accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. During negotiations agreement was reached that
audited accounts and the auditors' report would be made available to IDA
not later than six months after the end of each financial year.
5.09        SINELAC's administrative and financial assistant would prepare
SINELAC's budget each year with the chief accountant and their local
counterparts and before September 30 of each year would furnish it to IDA
for its review.  This was agreed at negotiations.
5.10        The three national electricity companies, REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ
and SNEL, would be the sole customers of SINELAC.   They would participate
in the financing of SINELAC through their respective Governments of
Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire (para 6.03). Because of the essential part they
play in the proposed project, a detailed description of these three
companies is given in Annex 5.
5.11      Because of the previously mentioned close financial relationship
among REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ, SNEL on the one hand, and SINELAC on the other,
management covenants for these companies were agreed upon during nego-
tiations of the proposed project so that:
- REGIDESO would continue to provide separate annual financial
statements for its electricity and water operations, and an
annual revaluation of its fixed assets, continue to have its
accounts audited each year by a firm acceptable to IDA, and
submit to IDA financial statements and auditor's report no later
than six months after the end of the financial year;
-  ELECTROGAZ   would   have   its   annual   accounts   audited   by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submit them within six
months of the end of each financial year; and
- SNEL would prepare yearly financial statements for the Kivu
interconnected system as part of the accounting of SNEL's Eastern
Region, and, as in the Shaba project (IDA Credit 1224-ZR), SNEL's
accounts including Kivu's annual accounts would be audited by
external auditors acceptable to IDA, and audit reports and copies
of the accounts would be forwarded to IDA within six months of
the end of the financial year, and its fixed assets would be
revalued each year to determine their economic value.
-   In   addition   the   borrowers   undertook   to   advise   IDA
whenever other expenditures are proposed for their respective
power sectors.
Insurance
5.12        During negotiations,  agreement was reached that SINELAC would
maintain  sufficient  coverage  against  loss  through  fire,   machinery
breakdown, special perils (such as earthquakes) as well as against
consequential loss, in addition to coverage for such things as their motor
vehicle fleet, workmen's compensation, personal accidents, third party
liability, etc., which would be satisfactory to IDA.



- 21 -
Project Monitoring
5.13         During negotiations  SINELAC agreed to the project monitoring
system (Annex 17), and to IDA's completion report requirements.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01       In Brussels on July 9, 1982, the three Ministers of Energy of
Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire agreed to form SINELAC (para. 5.02) and to have
the treaty and its by-laws ratified by the three Governments. Ratification
of the treaty and by-laws by the three respective legislative authorities
is scheduled to take place by mid-July 1983 at the latest.   In order to
ensure that the project execution agency is established prior to commitment
of IDA funds, ratification would be a condition of Credit signing.
SINELAC's opening balance sheet would date from mid-1983 (Annex 18) and the
first financial year would end on December 31, 1983.
Financing Plan
6.02         SINELAC's  annual financial statements would be expressed in
Special Drawing Rights (SDR) because of its international context and
because it is the currency referred to in the statutes of BDEGL.  However,
for practical purposes SINELAC's financial projection and assumptions
(Annexes 18 and 19) have been prepared in US$ with escalation based on
international rates of inflation used in para. 4.02.   The financing plan
for the construction of the proposed project covering the six calendar
years 1983 through 1988 is summarized on the following page.
6.03        Three IDA Credits of US$15 million would be made available to
each of the three Governments.  The proceeds of each credit would be onlent
to SINELAC by the three governments under three subsidiary loan agreements
at 10.97% rate of interest, with a repayment period of 25 years, including
an eight-year grace period to reduce obligations from the three Governments
under the minimum payment agreement  (para.  6.06).   Interest during the
eight-year  grace  period  would  be  capitalized.    The  subsidiary  loan
agreements would be respectively expressed in the currencies of each of the
three onlending countries, i.e. the Burundi franc, the Rwanda franc and the
zaire, and SINELAC would assume the foreign exchange risk.  The following
would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credits for the
financing of the project:
a) the  execution  of  the  subsidiary  loan  agreements  between  the
Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire and SINELAC;
b) the fulfillment of all conditions to initial disbursement of the
funds made available to the three Governments by the FED (SDR 15.5
million or US$16.8 million equivalent loan at a 1% interest rate,
with a repayment period of forty years, including a ten-year grace
period, and SDR 3.4 million or US$3.7 million equivalent grant).



- 22 -
SINELAC'S Financing Plan 1983-1988
(US$ million)
Applications of Funds                                          Percentage
of total
Construction expenditures
Proposed project                             83.7 a/        77
Interest capitalized during grace period  22.6 b/c/         21
106.3          98
Increase in working capital                     1.5            1
Debt Service                                    0.9            1
Total Applications               108.7          100
Sources of Funds
Internal sources
Operating income                          -0.8
Depreciation                               7.1
Total                                6.3            6
Loans and Grants
IDA credit                                45.0           41
FED loan                                  16.8           16
FED grant                                  3.7            3
Italian Government                         8.5            8
BDEGL                                      1.9            2
Governments' grants
Construction expenditures    7.8
Working capital                1.2      9.0            8
Interest during grace period
added to IDA onlent credit        17.5 b/        16
Total                              102.4           94
Total Sources                    108.7          100
a/  Total project cost of US$84.9 million is made of US$83.7 million in
construction expenditures and US$1.2 million in working capital.
b/  The difference between interest  capitalized during grace period and
interest during grace period added to IDA onlent credits (US$5.1
million) would be made of payments to the Governments (i) for the
service charge on the IDA credits and interest during grace period on
the FED funds, and (ii) to reduce the amount of accrued interest during
the grace period (para. 6.05).
c/ Total capitalized interest during grace period is US$46.0 million, as
it extends until 1991 (para. 6.05 and Annex 18).



- 23 -
c) the fulfillment of all conditions for initial disbursement of funds
to be lent to SINELAC by BDEGL (SDR 1.7 million or US$ 1.9 million
equivalent loan at a 7.5% rate, with a repayment period of thirteen
years, including a three-year grace period); and
d) the fulfillment of all conditions for initial disbursement of funds
to be made available for the project by the Government of Italy
(SDR 7.8 million or US$8.5 million equivalent grant.
The balance of the local project cost including working capital would be
financed by three government grants in local currency each equivalent to
SDR 2.8 million (US$3.0 million).   Total Government contributions to the
proposed project amounting to US$9.0 million (Annex 18) would be paid-in
capital to SINELAC.   During the period of construction ending in March
1987, the three Governments would pay IDA's commitment charge of 0.50% on
the amount of undisbursed credit and service charge of 0.75% on withdrawn
funds, and FED's interest, totaling about US$1.5 million, or US$0.5 million
each.    Each  of  the  three  national  electricity  companies,  REGIDESO,
ELECTROGAZ and SNEL, would supply their respective Governments with the
funds needed for the local components of the project, service charges and
interest, i.e., US$3.5 million, which they would obtain from their
customers  through tariffs.    The  Governments  would  permit  the  national
companies to adjust their tariffs to meet their obligations.  In the event
that funds available to SINELAC would be inadequate for its operations and
to meet its commitments, the Governments would provide it with the needed
funds.   The above arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.   The
payment of $100,000 equivalent to SINELAC by each of the Governments of
Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, for its working capital requirements during the
first year of construction would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credits.
Tariffs
6.04        Draft documents for the creation of SINELAC provide for a 10%
financial  rate  of return for the project.   Computation of the average
tariff  of SINELAC would be based on the cost of the project  and  the
forecast sales from the Ruzizi II facilities.  The cost of the project has
been taken from the consultants' engineering studies (para. 4.02), and the
calculation of Ruzizi II sales takes account of:
- the commissioning of the Ruzizi II project in March 1987 and
the  Rwegura  project  in  March  1989  (para.  7.12)  and  the
commissioning of the third unit of Ruzizi II in 1993 (para.
3.05);
- the total demand of the interconnected  system in the three
countries (Annex 21);
- the competition among hydroelectric facilities as long as they
are not fully utilized: Ruzizi I, in operation since 1959,
Rwegura and Ruzizi II (Annex 22); and
- the minimum payment obligation agreed in principle in Brussels
and confirmed during negotiations, would require the three



- 24 -
national electricity companies REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL to
provide SINELAC with the funds needed to cover at least its
yearly cash expenses for operations, maintenance and debt
service (Annexes 20 through 22); each of the three companies
could then use the quantity of electricity corresponding to the
minimum payment under the prevailing tariffs.
6.05        Interest on the subsidiary loans onlent from the IDA credits
would be capitalized during the eight-year grace period and consequently
would reduce SINELAC's cash expenses and bring the minimum payment
obligations and the corresponding quantitities of electricity that could be
purchased in line with the initial requirements of the three national
companies.   Payment of the service charge by SINELAC on the IDA credits
from 1987 to 1991 and any payments that SINELAC could make during that
period which were estimated to be about US$15 million (Annex 18) would come
in deduction of the accrued interest. During the 1987-1991 period, SINELAC
would also pay the committment fee on the outstanding amount of the Bank
loan, the interest on FED's loan, and service BDEGL's debt.
6.06      Each company would provide SINELAC with budgeted minimum payments
quarterly.  In the case where needs of an electricity company exceeded the
quantity which the minimum payments could purchase, the excess would be
debited by SINELAC against the minimum payment of the other companies. The
minimum payment agreement would be part of the sales contracts between
SINELAC and each of the three national electricity companies which would be
discussed during negotiations.   The  signature of final sales  contracts
between each electricity company and SINELAC would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit.
6.07         Based on the foregoing,  the estimated total minimum annual
payment requirements would stay below the value of the estimated purchases
of electricity from Ruzizi II by the three national companies (Annex 21).
The selling price of Ruzizi II electricity to the national companies before
transmission losses is estimated to be US7.3/kWh, expressed in 1982
prices, to meet the objective of a 10% financial rate of return for the
proposed project (Annex 22).  Based on international inflation indices used
in para. 4.02, Ruzizi II's bulk electricity supply prices would be:
1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
-------------------USJ/kWh -----------------
- in current prices         10.2 10.8 11.5 12.1 12.8 13.7 14.5 15.3 16.2
- in constant 1982 prices   7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3 a/
a/ this is equivalent to US48.4/kWh after transmission and distribution
losses, in constant 1982 prices.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that near the completion of
the project, when the cost of construction is well established, and no
later than three months before the planned date for commissioning of the
project, SINELAC would have received the report of a consultant acceptable
to IDA containing a new calculation of the average tariff based on an



- 25 -
updated demand forecast for electricity, that would obtain a 10% financial
rate of return for the proposed project.   The Governments gave assurances
that they would take all measures necessary to permit SINELAC to set its
tariffs averaging at the required level.  To maintain its value in constant
terms, such average tariff would be updated each year using the United
Nations "Unit value index of manufactured exports from iadustrial to
developing   countries."       Before   September  30  of  each  year  after
commissioning, SINELAC would review with IDA the basis for the tariff
calculation,  as agreed  during negotiations.   The  level of earnings  are
estimated to be sufficient to finance the local costs of the third Ruzizi
II unit to be commissioned in 1993 (para. 3.05).
6.08       The tariffs presented are based on average revenue.  The tariff,
structured to differentiate time of day and season of utilization by the
consultant who would calculate the average tariff (para. 6.07), would be
incorporated in the sales contract (para. 6.06) and would be effective upon
commissioning in 1987. SINELAC's by-laws (para. 5.02) provide that, if the
covenanted level of tariffs enables it to accumulate cash in excess of its
foreseen requirements, the Board of Directors could decide to distribute
dividends to the partners of SINELAC.   In the three following paragraphs,
retail average tariffs derived from the accounts of the three national
electricity  companies  are  discussed  to  determine  whether  they  are
consistent with a spread estimated to be US3/kWh for transmission and
distribution above SINELAC's USf8.4/kWh bulk tariffs after losses.
(i) Burundi: REGIDESO
6.09        On July 1, 1980, REGIDESO increased its electricity tariffs by
70% to an average of 7.6 FBu/kWh (7.9 FBu/kWh or US49. in 1981) so that
electricity income statements would break even in 1982 through 1984 (Annex
21). To finance the Government's contribution to the proposed project, of
SDR 3.2 million (US$3.0 million in construction expenditures and US$ 0.5
million in paid-up interest and charges during construction, para. 6.03),
and. to finance the expected needs of the country in construction expendi-
tures, notably for the Rwegura project and the next project for complemen-
tary works to Ruzizi (para. 2.26), REGIDESO would have to increase its
average tariffs, which have been estimated as shown in the following table
(Annex 24).  In 1987, they would reach a level consistent with the esti-
mated average retail tariff (para. 6.08).
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989
FBu/kWh a/
Tariffs in current prices           7.9  7.9  7.9  9.0 12.2 16.5 18.1 19.9
Increases in %           -    0    0   14   35   35   10   10
Tariffs in 1982 const. prices    7.9  7.1  6.3  6.4  7.9  9.7  9.7  9.7 b/
Tariffs in 1982 const. US a/    9.1  8.2  7.2  7.4  9.1 11.2 11.1 11.1
a/ US$1 = FBu 87 in 1982.
b/ The rates of inflation in Burundi are estimated to be 12% from
1983 through 1985 and 10% in 1986 and thereafter.



- 26 -
(ii) Rwanda: ELECTROGAZ
6.10         ELECTROGAZ's fixed assets have not been revalued,  and it is
therefore impossible  to compute  appropriate  rates of return.   Thus,  in
preparation for the next project for complementary works to Ruzizi II to be
carried out in Rwanda, the Rwandese Government has requested IDA to grant a
PPF that will cover the cost of evaluation of ELECTROGAZ's fixed assets
(para. 2.24).  An appropriate rate of return covenant would be drafted at
the time of the preparation of the project for complementary works to
Ruzizi II (para. 2.26). On January 1, 1982, ELECTROGAZ almost doubled its
electricity tariffs, which should enable it to fulfill the earnings cove-
nant of the proposed IDA financed water project (Annex 5, para. 20) until
1984:    as  a result,  ELECTROGAZ  would  generate  annually  from  internal
sources funds equivalent to 25% of construction expenditures averaged over
the previous, current, and following year.  However, to finance the SDR 3.2
million (US$3.0 million in construction expenditures and US$0.5 million in
paid-up interest and charges during construction, para. 6.03) Government's
contribution to the proposed Ruzizi II project and complementary works to
Ruzizi and for future construction expenditures, the above earnings cove-
nant would require the tariffs shown in the following table (Annex 24). In
1987 they would reach a level consistent with the estimated average retail
tariff (para. 6.08).
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988
FRw/kWh a/
Tariffs in current prices          10.9 10.9 13.0 15.5 15.5 16.0 20
Increases in %           -    0   19   19    -    3   25 b/
Tariffs in 1982 const. prices   10.9  9.7 10.4 11.0 10.0  9.4 10.7
Tariffs in 1982 const. US a/   12.5 11.1 12.0 12.6 11.5 10.8 12.3
a/ US$1 = Rw 87 in 1982.
b/ The rates of inflation in Rwanda are estimated to be 12% from
1983 through 1985 and 10% in 1986 and thereafter.
(iii) Zaire (Kivu): SNEL
6.11      Forecasts have been prepared for the interconnected system of the
Kivu province, the cities of Bukavu and Uvira which are already part of it,
and Goma, after it is linked in 1985 (para. 2.11).   SNEL's assets will be
revalued under a provision of Credit 1224-ZR (para. 2.20), and an
appropriate rate of return covenant would be drafted at the time of the
preparation of the project for complementary works to Ruzizi II (para.
2.26).   However,  in Annex 22,  the value  of Ruzizi  I assets  has  been
estimated on the same basis as that of Ruzizi II and a selling price in
1987, the year of commissioning of Ruzizi II, has been determined on the
same basis as that of Ruzizi II to render the comparisons meaningful. Bulk
prices of the Ruzizi I electricity sold to Burundi and Rwanda would be
increased progressively from their present level to reach the calculated
price in 1987.  On March 1, 1982, SNEL's domestic prices were doubled as a



- 27 -
condition of Board presentation of Credit 1224-ZR and the foregoing
increases are needed to finance the SDR 3.2 million (US$3.0 million in
construction expenditures and US$0.5 million in paid-up interest and
charges during construction, para. 6.03) Government's contribution to the
proposed Ruzizi II project and complementary works to Ruzizi (para. 2.26)
and for future construction expenditures. Because bulk sales from Ruzizi I
at a lower price would represent, in 1987, about half of sales from the
Kivu interconnected system (Annex 25), the latter's average tariffs would
be below the level consistent with the estimated average retail tariff
(para. 6.08).
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989
US/kWh a/
Average tariffs in
current prices                      3.7  4.4  6.1  6.9  7.4  8.6  9.2  11.5
Increase in %                       -   19   39   13    7   16    7    25
Tariffs in constant
1982 prices                       3.7  4.1  5.3  5.6  5.6  6.1  6.2  7.3 a/
a/ See rates of international inflation, table of para. 4.08.
Convertibility of Currencies
6.12        The free convertibility of local currencies is provided in the
agreement called "Arrangement monetaire entre les banques centrales des
Etats membres de la Communaute economique des pays des grands lacs" among
the three central banks of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, dated June 7, 1978.
Free convertibility among the Burundi franc, the Rwanda franc and the zaire
would be necessary for all operating activities of the Ruzizi II facili-
ties. For example, revenue, debt services and dividends would be expressed
in the three currencies, and it is assumed at present that most local
salaries would  be paid  in zaires.   During  negotiations, agreement was
reached that the three central banks would guarantee to clear SINELAC's
accounts in the three currencies every three months.  Furthermore, it was
agreed at negotiations that each of the three central banks would provide
SINELAC with one-third of the foreign exchange requirements for maintenance
and renewal work and for external auditors.
SINELAC's Future Operations and Financial Position
6.13      On the basis of estimated forecasts for SINELAC's financial posi-
tion, maintaining the average bulk tariff before losses at US7.3/kWh in
constant 1982 prices would accumulate a large amount of working capital.
Therefore from 1988 to 1991, funds above SINELAC's needs to cover yearly
debt service, operating and maintenance expenses would be paid to reduce
the capitalized interest during grace period, and from 1992 onwards as
dividends to the three Governments and leave a satisfactory working capital
position  (Annex 18).   Assurances were obtained  during  negotiations  that
SINELAC would require IDA's approval before incurring debts of an amount
larger than US$500,000 equivalent.



- 28 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROJECT
Power Market
7.01       The main supply of electricity for the Great Lakes region is the
existing Ruzizi generating station in Kivu province, Zaire, at the outlet
of Lake Kivu. Thus all discussion on the availability of electrical energy
and the needs of the region must consider the supply by the interconnected
system to Burundi, Rwanda, and the eastern part of Kivu province, Zaire.
7.02       IDA reviewed the forecast of demand for energy and power for the
interconnected system which was prepared by the consultant to EGL,
Tractionel,   the  forecast  prepared  for  Gesellschaft   fUr  technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) for a proposed hydroelectric scheme near Gisenyi,
Rwanda, and a UNDP report entitled "Planification a long terme des besoins
d'6nergie 6lectrique et des chantiers des ouvrages de production," dated
April 1982, and found these forecasts to be somewhat optimistic. Following
a detailed discussion of the need for electrical energy with the various
parties concerned, IDA prepared the detailed forecasts for Burundi, Rwanda
and Zaire shown on Annexes 6, 7 and 8 respectively. The combined demand on
the interconnected system was prepared from these forecasts, and the
results  are shown in tabular  form  and  graphically  in Annex  26.   The
historical growth and the forecasts for each of the countries are discussed
below.
(i)   Burundi
7.03          Burundi's  actual  electricity  sales  1976 to  1981 and  those
forecast to 1990 are shown in tabular form in Annex 6.  It will be noted
that in the past four years the domestic sector has grown at an average
rate of about 12%.   However, in view of the general decline in economic
activity, and because of the larger base in the future, it has been assumed
that the growth rate in this sector would be at a somewhat lower pace, and
growth for the ensuing period has been calculated at a rate of 10%.
7.04        Growth of electricity demand in the industrial sector has been
quite rapid.   As is shown in the tabulation, growth rates exceeding 20%
occurred in 1977 and 1978, and 1980 and 1981 had rates of 17%.   However,
the rate of growth in the future is less certain, and therefore, in order
to be conservative, the growth rate for general industry was assumed to
decrease in later years until 1989, when a rate of 8% has been used.
Nevertheless, a significant demand will materialize at the end of 1983,
i.e. the commissioning of a glass bottle factory with a planned load of 3
MW.   However,  full operation may not  begin immediately,  either due  to
start-up  troubles,  or due  to lack  of market.   Therefore,  to make  the
forecasts conservative, IDA has assumed that the demand would be 5 GWh in
1984, rising to 10 GWh in 1986, which is well below the annual demand of 17
GWh forecast by the owners. The decision to reduce the expected demand for
electricity was based on the experience with the textile mill (planned load
2.5 MW), where after several years of operation, the output is only
one-third of capacity, i.e. annual demand of about 5 GWh instead of about
15 GWh.  This low requirement for energy is due primarily to a lack of
markets for the manufactured goods.   The supply of electricity to public
buildings and lighting has varied somewhat during the last years and for



- 29 -
the purposes of this report it has been assumed that this sector would
increase at a rate of about 5% per annum.  Also included in this category
is REGIDESO's electrical needs for pumping and internal uses which have
varied during the past few years. It is forecast that the demand for water
will increase at a rate of about 9% per annum but this does not translate
directly into pumping requirements, since there are a number of fixed loads
which do not vary with growth and, therefore, a growth rate of 7% has been
assumed for the sector.   The average  growth for the public sector  is
therefore assumed to be about 6% per year for the interconnected system.
7.05       Based on the knowledge that there is a suppressed demand and the
assumption that the interconnected system would be extended as requested by
the Government (para. 2.26) and also taking into account the foregoing
factors, IDA has calculated a rate of growth for the interconnected system
in Burundi of 11 % in 1982 and 1983, 20% in 1984, 15% in 1985, 12% in 1986,
and 9% in 1987 and 1988 and 8% in 1989 and 1990.
(ii) Rwanda
7.06        It will be noted in Annex 7 that there has been a significant
increase in the demand for electrical energy from the domestic sector
during the past few years,  which, since 1977, has resulted in an annual
average growth of 25% due primarily to the completion of the 110 kV line
from Ruzizi I to Kigali. IDA feels that this high rate of growth cannot be
maintained, and has conservatively assumed that the growth rate in the
domestic sector in 1982-1983 would be about 16%, falling to 11% in the
1987-1990 period.   A new transmission line is expected to join Gisenyi to
Ruhengeri by 1986, and its demand of 5 GWh after it joins the intercon-
nected system is reflected by the 31% increase in 1986.
7.07        Significant growth has also been experienced in the demand for
energy in the commercial sector, which since 1977, has had an average
annual growth of about 20%.  This rate is not expected to continue and a
more prudent assumption for a growth rate of 14% for 1982 and 1983, falling
to 11% in 1989 and 1990, was used.  These growth rates have been offset to
some extent by the reduced demand from the mining industry.   Discussions
with various parties in Rwanda have resulted in reducing demand projections
about 12 GWh in 1981 to about 9 GWh in 1985. A large foreign radio instal-
lation in Rwanda consumes a significant amount of electrical energy (about
12% in 1981), but virtually no growth is expected to take place during the
ensuing years.
7.08       As a result of the foregoing, IDA has concluded that in Rwanda,
even though some of the suppressed demand has been satisfied with the con-
struction of the 110 kv transmission line from Ruzizi (para. 7.06), much of
the country remains to be served. Thus with the extensions proposed by the
Government (para. 2.26) it is forecast that electricity sales would
increase as follows: 8% in 1982-1984; 10% in 1985; 15% in 1986, and 9% in
1987-1990.
(iii) Zaire (Kivu)
7.09      The lack of funds to extend the transmission network has resulted
in a suppressed demand for electricity in the past, and virtually no growth



- 30 -
is expected for Bukavu and its environs before 1984 (Annex 8).  However,
before Ruzizi II is commissioned in 1987, some of the projects involving
the rehabilitation and extension of service to new consumers would have
been completed to satisfy this demand (para. 2.26), and a growth rate of 6%
has been assumed for 1985, 8% for 1986-1988, falling to 6% in 1989-1990.
The construction of the transmission line from Katana to Goma is now under
way and is expected to be completed by the end of 1984 (para. 2.11).  Thus
the growth of 33% in 1985 has been based on the assumption that Goma would
require about 5 GWh, rising slowly to 8.8 GWh in 1990.   The brewery in
Bukavu has become a new major consumer of electrical energy with the
switch-over from oil to electric furnaces (5 MW) in December of 1981.  IDA
was advised that the brewery is now working at about 25% capacity due to
the scarcity of raw materials, and that by 1984 the circumstances would be
such that it may operate at about 50% capacity.   Thus, in preparing the
forecast, it has been assumed that the 1982 demand of 5 GWh would rise to
10 GWh by 1984,with a slow growth to 12.5 GWh during the 1988-1990 period.
The rehabilitation and upgrading of the transmission lines to Uvira,
Ngweshe and Nyangezi, from 15 kW to 30 kW would provide additional energy
to industrial plants which to date has been suppressed due to the lack of
material to extend services.
7.10      From the foregoing, growth rates varying from 33% to 8% annually
have been assumed for the electricity sales in Kivu.  Although these rates
appear high, it should be recognized that the forecast base is at a very
low level, and expansion has been prevented due to the lack of funds.
(iv) Interconnected System
7.11       When the results of the individual forecasts were added together
(Annex 26), it was found that the average annual rate of growth for the
interconnected system during the 1982-1990 period would be about 11%, an
amount which is not unreasonable considering the complementary works
prepared by studies financed by PPFs (paras. 2.23-2.25) would be undertaken
in each of the three countries to tap potential demand that has been
suppressed by lack of funds to service new consumers, and improve the
reliability to existing consumers.  This 11% rate of growth is assumed to
be conservative, bearing in mind the assumed reduced demand for the three
largest consumers - the bottle factory and textile mill (para. 7.04) and
the brewery (para. 7.09).
Requirements for the Project
7.12         The expected growth in demand for electrical energy in the
interconnected system thus implies that by 1986 the existing generating
facilities would be inadequate.  During the dry season, in particular, the
output of the Mugere hydroelectric generating station would be curtailed
considerably because there is no reservoir to store water for release
during the low river flow seasons.   The Ruzizi I generating station has
considerable storage upstream in Lake Kivu, and its output is not
significantly affected by fluctuations in river flow due to seasonal
variations  in  rainfall.       Although  there  are  sufficient  generating
facilities in the region to meet instantaneous peak demands, if neither the
Rwegura nor Ruzizi II developments are constructed there would be a
seasonal deficiency of 27 GWh in 1987 which would grow annually at the rate



- 31 -
of about 30 GWh per year.   The Burundian Government has scheduled the
Rwegura project to be in service early in 1987.   However, IDA is of the
opinion that due to the extensive civil works involving a 50 m high
rock-fill dam, 2,200 m of tunnelling, and a 1,800 m penstock, the scheduled
completion date is optimistic, and therefore for the purposes of this
report, a more realistic completion date of early 1989 has been assumed
for the Rwegura project. The difficulty facing EGL at present is to devise
a plan to develop its resources, whereby the possibility of a deficiency in
electrical  energy  from  1987  onwards  is  minimized.    For  this  reason,
therefore, the proposed Ruzizi II project has been scheduled to be
completed in March 1987.
Comparison of Alternatives - Least Cost Solution
7.13      IDA estimates that if either the Ruzizi II or Rwegura plants were
to be in operation alone in 1987, the average bulk tariffs required to
produce a 10% financial rate of return would be US6.4/kWh and 15.3/kWh
respectively, indicating that the Ruzizi II project is the lesser cost
solution and that building the Rwegura project, before the Ruzizi II
capability is fully utilized, would cause the selling price of Ruzizi II
energy to be increased by more than 10% from USt6.4/kWh to 7.3/kWh (Annex
27).
7.14      The construction of the Rusumo Falls hydroelectric project on the
Kagera River which forms the border between Rwanda and Tanzania is the only
viable alternative to the construction of the Ruzizi II project.  The high
cost of fuel oil precludes the consideration of conventional steam
generating stations and the general lack of transportation and handling
facilities eliminates the possibility of using coal from the Kalemie coal
fields, about 300 km south of Bujumbura on Lake Tanganyika.   As there is
little data to determine if other mini-hydro sites could be commissioned in
time to satisfy the expected demand, there remains therefore the
possibility of developing the Rusumo Falls site at an estimated cost of
US$160 million. Thus, the proposed project was compared to the alternative
of construction of the Rusumo Falls on the following basis:
The Rwegura hydroelectric project (18 MW) to be commissioned
early in 1989 would be followed by the commissioning of the
Rusumo Falls  development  (80 MW)  in 1991.   There would be a
deficiency in energy from 1986 to 1990 inclusive and the cost of
a 10 MW diesel plant, for generation of electricity during the
period, is included. Details of the computations may be found in
Annexes 28 and 29.
7.15       The least cost solution was found to be the Ruzizi II project at
discount rates up to 35% (Annex 29).
Rate of Return
7.16       Given the 1987 US7.3/kWh average bulk tariff expressed in 1982
prices,  to achieve  a 10% rate  of  return  (para.  6.07)  the  sensitivity
analysis shows that with an increase  in construction costs of  10%,  the
financial rate of return would be 9.2%; with a reduction in annual growth
of the regional demand in the period 1981-1990, from 11.1% down to 10%



- 32 -
(Annex 31), it would be 8.9% with purchases from Ruzizi II matching minimum
payments, and 8.7% if cheaper power from Rwegura and Ruzizi I is consumed;
with a deferment of commissioning by one year it would be 9.2%.  In case of
an increase in costs of 10%, or a decrease in annual growth of the regional
demand of 10%, or a deferment of one year, the average tariffs should be
respectively US8.1, 8.7 and 8.1/kWh, for a 10% financial rate of return.
7.17      An economic rate of return has been computed at the distribution
or retail level for the proposed project combined with a planned project to
rehabilitate and extend the interconnected distribution systems of the
three countries (para. 2.26).   The average retail tariff is estimated at
US411.4/kWh (para. 6.08) in 1982 prices and would produce a rate of return
of 8.9% (Annex 30).   By taking into account the economic benefit deriving
from the availability of hydropower rather. than high cost diesel-generated
power which some consumers would be ready to buy the economic rate of
return would be substantially higher (consumers' surplus, Annex 30).
Forecasts for the three national electricity companies indicate that such a
tariff averaged among the three countries could be attained in 1987 and
thereafter (para. 6.09 to 6.11), at the time of commissioning of the Ruzizi
II facilities and probably also of the rehabilitation and extension of the
interconnected distribution systems.
Risks
7.18       A number of risks are associated with the implementation of this
project, the first being the involvement of three separate government
entities who would borrow the necessary funds for the construction of this
facility. IDA does not consider this to be an insuperable problem, because
in the past the governments have been very cooperative in the use of elec-
trical energy from the Ruzizi I generating station.  Also, with the forma-
tion of EGL (Annex 4) whose prime responsibility is to coordinate energy
matters in the region and its effectiveness since then, the involvement of
the three governments is not considered to be an impediment to the success-
ful completion of the project.   In addition, the formation of SINELAC, an
autonomous institution, provides protection from day to day interference by
the Governments.
7.19       Of greater concern, however, is a second risk, institutional in
nature, relating to the capability of the newly formed SINELAC to adminis-
ter the project properly.   With its location far from the sea, requiring
the transportation of heavy equipment across several international borders,
and with little or no local construction materials or supplies, the possi-
bility of delays in construction progress is great.  However, the project
with its relatively simple dam and spillway (rlm high), short tunnel
(500m), and conventional above-ground powerhouse, would present a minimum
of difficulty to potential contractors.  This risk of failure to complete
the project succesfully, has been addressed by including a technical assis-
tance component, whereby several experts in various disciplines of engi-
neering and finance would assist SINELAC during the implementation period,
and for at least two years after commissioning (para. 4.10).
7.20       A third risk is technical, and involves the suitability of each
segment of the proposed project to carry out its intended functions
successfully.   This risk has beer minimized by the IDA requirement  that



- 33 -
SINELAC retain consultants with appropriate experience to carry out the
design of the project, and to retain a second group to review and coment
on the final documents. In addition, IDA has requested SINELAC to engage a
panel of experts to advise on design and construction procedures and if
necessary make recommendations on any claims which may be submitted during
the course of the work by the various contractors.   Continuous advice and
direction  would  be  provided  by  experts  funded  under  the  technical
assistance component of the project (para. 3.06).
7.21       A fourth risk is the possibility that the anticipated rate of
growth in the demand for electricity would not be realized, and that
construction of the project would be premature. IDA is of the opinion that
this risk is minimal, and that the load forecasts for each of the countries
are conservative. With the completion of-the complementary works described
in para. 2.23 -2.26, the rate of increase in demand for electrical energy
is expected to equal or exceed the forecasts.
7.22       The financial risk of the proposed project and the ability of
SINELAC to repay the borrowed funds has been met by the requirement that
the three national electricity companies make minimum payments to SINELAC
(para. 6.04).   SINELAC has agreed to set its tariffs at the covenanted
level, which is in fact higher than its needs to maintain a sound financial
position in the future (6.08).   Risk of cost overruns, which is the most
difficult to estimate accurately, would be minimal, because tenders for the
civil works have been received (para. 4.15).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
8.01      The treaty and by-laws establishing SINELAC have been agreed upon
by the three Borrowers and are scheduled to be ratified by their respective
legislative authorities by mid-July at the latest.  Ratification of these
agreements would be a condition of Credit signing.
8.02      During negotiations, the three Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and
Zaire agreed:
(a) to cause each of the three national electricity companies,
REGIDESO,  ELECTROGAZ  and  SNEL,  to  assign  qualified  and
experienced personnel for the operation and maintenance of
SINELAC's  facilities  and  when  needed,  to  be  trained  as
counterparts  of  the  management  team  providing  technical
assistance to SINELAC (paras. 5.05 and 5.06);
(b) to cause the three national electricity companies to provide
US$3.0 million equivalent in. local currencies to enable the
Governments to contribute in financing the local cost of the
project and US$0.5 million to cover financial charges during
the construction period; to allow them to adjust their
tariffs for that purpose if necessary; and to provide SINELAC
with any funds required to carry out its operations and meet
its obligations (para 6.03);



- 34 -
(c) to cause the three national electricity companies to provide
SINELAC with the funds needed to cover at least its cash
expenses for operations, maintenance and debt service and to
include such minimum payment obligation in sales contracts
between SINELAC and the three national electricity companies
(para. 6.04);
(d) to take all measures necessary to permit SINELAC to comply
with its tariff covenant (para. 6.07); and
(e) to require that the three central banks provide SINELAC with
foreign exchange for all its needs for maintenance and
renewal work (para. 6.12).
8.03      During negotiations, the Government of Burundi agreed:
(a) to cause REGIDESO to retain consultants to complete a tariff
study by December 31, 1983 (para. 2.23 and 2.26);
(b) to commit REGIDESO to construct a transmission line from
Ruzizi  II  to  Burundi,  and  transmission  lines  connecting
Rugombo,  Muzinda,  Cibitoke  and  Bubanza,  and  to  retain
consultants to prepare a report on their construction by
December 31, 1983 (para. 2.23 and 2.26);
(c) to advise IDA whenever other expenditures are proposed in the
power sector (para. 5.11); and
(d) to cause REGIDESO to provide separate annual financial
statements  for  its  electricity  and  water  operations,  to
update annually the revaluation of its fixed assets and to
have its accounts audited each year by a firm acceptable to
IDA and to submit audited financial statements and auditors'
report no later than six months after the end of the
financial year (para. 5.11).
8.04      During negotiations, the Government of Rwanda agreed:
(a) to cause ELECTROGAZ to carry out a revaluation of its assets
and a study of electricity tariff structure by December 31,
1983 (para. 2.24 and 2.26);
(b) to   commit   ELECTROGAZ   to   carry   out   works   for   the
rehabilitation of the Ntaruka hydroelectric plant, the
rehabilitation of the electricity transmission system and to
construct lines to enlarge it, and to retain consultants to
prepare a report on such works by December 31, 1983 (para.
2.24 and 2.26);
(c) to advise IDA whenever other expenditures are proposed in the
power sector (para. 5.11); and
(d) to cause ELECTROGAZ to have its annual accounts audited by an
independent firm acceptable to IDA and to submit audited



- 35 -
accounts and auditors' report no later than six mnths after
the end of the financial year (para. 5.11);
8.05      During negotiations, the Government of Zaire agreed:
(a) to commit SNEL to carry out works for the rehabilitation of
the Ruzizi I hydroelectric plant, the rehabilitation of the
transmission and distribution systems in Bukavu, Goma and
Uvira, to construct a 30 kV transmission line from Bujumbura
to Uvira, and to construct a wood-fueled generating plant if
it is shown to be feasible, and to retain consultants to
prepare a report on such works by December 31, 1983 (para.
2.25 and 2.26);
(b) to advise IDA whenever other expenditures are proposed in the
power sector (para. 5.11); and
(c) to cause SNEL to have its annual accounts as well as separate
Kivu's accounts audited by an independent firm acceptable to
IDA and to submit audited accounts and auditors' report no
later than six months after the end of the financial year,
and to revalue annually its fixed assets (para. 5.11).
8.06      During negotiations, SINELAC agreed:
(a) to retain the services of a panel of experts who would make
periodic inspections of the dam, and submit their reports to
IDA for comment (para. 3.08);
(b) to take all necessary steps to acquire land and rights
necessary to carry out the project and operate the Ruzizi II
facilities (para. 5.02);
(c) to consult with IDA before appointment of a general manager,
a technical director and a financial and administrative
director (para. 5.04);
(d) to continue to employ consultants and an administrative and
financial assistant satisfactory to IDA; and to hire members
of a management team from an internationally known utility
company, who would be appointed at specified dates, to
supervise the work of the consultant who would monitor the
construction of the proposed project, and to provide advice
on the initial operation of the plant (para. 5.05);
(e) to hire consultants acceptable to IDA to carry out a study
for regional training facilities (para. 5.07);
(f) to have its annual accounts audited by an independent firm
acceptable to IDA and to submit audited accounts and
auditors' report no later than six months after the end of
the financial year (para. 5.08);



- 36 -
(g) to discuss its budget with IDA each year (5.09);
(h) to maintain proper insurance on its facilities and against
third party claims (para. 5.12);
(i) to comply with the project monitoring system and to
completion report requirements (para. 5.13);
(j) to establish tariffs for the first year of operation of the
Ruzizi II facilities at a level sufficient to obtain a 10%
financial rate of return for the proposed project on the
basis of a study prepared no later than three months before
commissioning, and each year to update it to maintain the
tariffs at the same level in constant terms and to review
with IDA the basis for their calculations (para. 6.07); and
(k) to require IDA's aproval before incurring debts of more than
US$500,000 equivalent (para. 6.13).
8.07       The conditions of effectiveness of the Credit would be (a) the
transfer of land rights to SINELAC and the presentation of an "accord de
siage" concluded between the Republics of Zaire and Rwanda, and SINELAC
(para. 5.02); (b) the appointment of SINELAC's general manager (para.
5.04);  (c) the execution of the subsidiary loan agreements  between the
Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, and SINELAC; (d) the fulfillment
of all conditions precedent to disbursement of cofinanciers' funds; (e) the
signing of the agreement between BDEGL and SINELAC;  (f) the signing of
sales  contracts  between  SINELAC  and  the  three  national  electricity
companies, REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL (paras. 6.03 and.6.06); and (g)
the payment of $100,000 equivalent to SINELAC by each of the Governments of
Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire for its working capital requirements of the first
year of t'ne project (para. 6.03).
Recommendation
8.08      With the above agreements, the project is suitable for three IDA
Credits of SDR 13.8 million (US$15 million) each.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 11
BURUNDI -RWANDA-ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Energy Resources in Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire (Kivu)
(i) Wood Resources
1.    Burundi - Firewood, with some agricultural waste, and charcoal are
the  principal  sources  of  energy  for  the  majority  of  Burundi's
populatior,.   The dependenev of .zhe large population on fuelwood for
cooking and its inefficient use has resulted in severe deforestation,
creating both a fuelwood shortage and soil erosion. The forests now
cover about 3% of the country's total area, and average forest
replenishment through natural growth is about one-third of the annual
consumption.   Agricultural waste, used as a primary fuel in some areas
of the country due to the scarcity of fuelwood, has resulted in a
reduction  in soil  fertility and  crop yields.   The urban population
relies mostly on charcoal because of its lower transportation costs,
with a resulting increase in the general depletion of resources, because
of the innefficient methods by which charcoal is produced.
2.      Management of the sector is under the direction of the Forestry
Department which is also responsible for fisheries and wild life.
Operational funds for this sector have been given low priority in the
government  budget  allocation,  and  programs  for  further  forestry
development have not been extensive.   Training programs are virtually
non-existent as evidenced by the fact that the Government of Burundi has
only one trained forester on its staff.  The Bank is well aware of the
problem and an IDA project, Burundi Forestry Project, Credit 918-BU,
1979, has been approved for the establishment of three nurseries for
eucalyptus plantations, a pine plantation, project management, training,
technical assistance, and further studies in Burundi's energy use. This
project also includes a component covering a survey of wood and
agricultural waste use in rural households, which will provide better
data for future planning.   In addition, several IDA rural development
projects have forestry components which provide assistance to Burundi
and its fuelwood problems. Other agencies are also providing funds; the
Fonds europeen de developpement (FED) to develop a pine tree plantation;
the French fonds d'aide et de cooperation (FAC) to provide a protective
belt of new trees around the natural forest in the north to prevent its
further depletion; Belgium and Saudi Arabia are co-financing a project
for pine, eucalyptus, and callitris trees in the southern part of the
country; and an FAO-UNDP Project to train 35 forestry technicians by
1982.  Both FAO and USAID are planning additional forestry projects for
conservation and production in the country.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 11
3.         Efforts are being made to conserve this forestry resource by
providing more efficient stoves and more efficient kilns for charcoal
manufacture.    USAID  has  estimated  that  by  1986  the  production  of
fuelwood would decline to such an extent that the population will need
an unreasonable amount of time to gather fuelwood because of its
distance from the point of use, and the cost of wood for fuel will
become extremely high.  It is expected that the programs now in effect
will at least reduce the crisis to a manageable level and will provide
for future supplies.
4.          Rwanda - Rural households in Rwanda use either firewood or
agricultural wastes for their cooking and heating, although in Kigali
charcoal is used as a principal cooking fuel.  In rural areas, schools,
hospitals and other government institutions use wood for fuel.
5.          The Directorate of Waters and Forests under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for the forestry sector in
Rwanda.  An association of research institutions made up of government
departments and local authorities involved in forestry, called Groupe
forestier de Rwanda, meets about twice a year to discuss forestry
problems.   As in the case of Burundi, there is a serious lack of well
trained extension workers and foresters in Rwanda.
6.        IDA is well aware of the problems of forestry in Rwanda and as
such, has included reforestation of several hundred acres in the
Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo and Mutara projects.  In addition, the proposed
Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project would include
components to strengthen forestry services within the Ministry of
Agriculture   and   Livestock,   develop   8,000   ha  of  short-rotation
plantations to supply charcoal, firewood and building poles for the
urban populations of Kigali and Butare, rural woodlots to supply
firewood and building poles for the rural population, development of an
additional 4,000 ha as part of a long-term integrated forestry and
livestock development program within the Gishwati Forest, studies and
field  trials  of  more  efficient  charcoal  production  techniques,
development of new cooking methods for the rural population, project
monitoring   and   evaluation,    further   project   preparation,   and
scholarships in forestry, livestock and financial disciplines.
7.       In addition to the foregoing, other countries and organizations
are providing forestry assistance as follows:
a)  Switzerland.  The Swiss have been involved in the forestry
sector since 1967 through the Projet Pilote Forestier,
recently changed to become a Forestry Development Project.
It provides for training, reforestation (about 2,000 ha in
1981),  forest  conservation  in  Nyungwe,  and  forestry
education and extension.   It also provides a technical



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 11
adviser to the Department of Waters & Forestry.  This is
the only project which attempts to deal with the overall
development of the sub-sector.
b) Federal Republic of Germany. Agricultural intensification
projects   in   Ramba   and   Gaseke   communes,   include
reforestation of 100 ha per year.
c) African  Development  Bank.    A  project  in  Karago  and
Giciye communes, reforestation of 2,000 ha over five
years.
d)  UNDP.    A  project  for  agricultural  development  in the
Gikongoro prefecture includes reforestation of the Nyungwe
forest.
e) FED. A 2,000 ha reforestation project is included in its
current plan.
f) Various.   Some tea projects provide for the planting of
200-400 ha to produce wood for their own use.
g) SOMIRWA. The tin foundry has begun planting trees for
charcoal production near Kigali.
h) AIDR. An improved cookstove project. They are developing
several charcoal stove models in Brussels to introduce in
Kigali.
i) Belgium. A planned project would plant 150 ha every year
for 15 years on the eastern borders of the Nyungwe
reserve, but this project has not yet been fully appraised
and financed.
8.         Progress in conservation of wood fuel both in the preparation
of charcoal and in the improvement in design of energy saving cookstoves
has been virtually at a standstill.
9.         Zaire (Kivu) - Although there is an extensive use of wood and
charcoal in Kivu, both rural and urban, there is little direct
management   of  forestry  activities   in  Kivu.   The  Department   de
l'environnement, de la conservation de la nature, et du tourisme has
management responsibility, but the lack of funds, and the priority needs
of other areas of the country do not allow this department to take much
interest in Kivu province. Deforestation has not been a problem in Kivu
except in isolated localities, because of its extensive forests and a
less dense population. Thus, no programs to improve the forestry section
in Kivu are foreseen at this time.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 11
(ii) Hydroelectric Resources
10.       The region is high and mountainous (maximum elevation 2,700 m)
and forms the continental divide between the headwaters of the Nile
River flowing north to the Mediterranean, and the Zaire River flowing
west to the Atlantic. The region has two dry seasons; June to September
and December and January, and two wet seasons--heavy rains from February
to May, and light rains in October and November.  At the crest of the
divide, above elevation 2,000 m, the average annual rainfall is about
1,500 mm while in the central high plateau (elevation 1,400 m - 1800 m)
the average  annual  rainfall  is about 1,250 mm.   The combination of
mountains and abundant rainfall results in significant potential for the
generation of electricity by small hydroelectric generating stations in
the numerous, steep, fast flowing rivers and streams.
11.          Burundi - An inventory of possible hydro  sites  in north
eastern Burundi was carried out by Siemens of Germany in 1979, with
funds supplied by the Federal Republic of Germany through KfW.   Also,
Electricite de France (EDF) financed by Caisse centrale cooperation
economique (CCCE) is making a similar survey of potential hydro sites in
the southern and northern part of the country.   Recently, FED funded
Coyne & Bellier, consultants, to assemble an inventory of all potential
hydro sites in Burundi.   The total power potential is estimated to be
about 300 MW with an annual energy production of about 1,600 GWh. A list
of 32 potential hydroelectric power sites which are estimated to be
capable of producing about 300 MW or 1,600 Gwh annually may be found at
the end of this annex.
12.         Rwanda - The electric power activities in Rwanda have been
focused on the development of the Ruzizi II Project on the Zaire border,
and the Rusumo Falls Project on the Tanzanian border.   The Ruzizi II
project is being promoted by the Cooperation economique des pays des
grands lacs (CEPGL) countries through Energie des pays des grands lacs
(EGL). The planning for the development of the Rusumo Fall site is not
as far advanced and it appears that this site could not be developed
before 1990.   A list of 15 potential mini-hydroelectric  power sites
which are estimated to be capable of providing about 42 MW or about 260
GWh annually may be found at the end of this annex.
13.       Zaire (Kivu) - There is a great potential for the development
of hydroelectric projects in Kivu. In addition to the Ruzizi II site
(the project) 24 sites ranging in potential from 0.2 MW to 240 MW have
been identified, with a potential output of over 400 MW. A list of
potential sites may be found at the end of this annex.



-41-                           ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 11
(iii) Peat
14.        Burundi - Peat resources in Burundi, estimated at 500 million
tons (dry weight), are considerable and if developed, could be a
medium-term solution to the fuelwood crisis until the reforested areas
(para. 2) mature for harvest.    In 1977, the Office nationale de la
tourbe (ONATOUR) was created as a planning and coordinating agency for
development of the peat industry, and, being a very small institution,
depends on outside agencies for funding. The Governments of Ireland and
Finland have been assisting the problem of peat production in Burundi,
and have prepared extensive studies on methods of recovery and the
efficient use of peat.   USAID has funded a US$11 million program to
develop a market for peat, and it expects-that by 1985 the total annual
demand  will  reach  about  50,000  tons  per  year.    EDF  has  provided
assistance to develop a peat bog near Kigozi, to supply EDF-financed tea
factories. USAID's current second project--a grant of US$8 million over
four years, beginning in 1981, is expected to increase availability and
acceptability  of  peat  as  an  alternative  energy  resource  and  to
strengthen the institutional capability of ONATOUR. DANIDA, the Danish
assistance agency, has also provided funds for an assessment of
Burundi's peat resources.   In June 1981, IDA approved a loan for the
study of a proposed nickel project (Credit 1154-BU), and consideration
is being given to the possible use of peat as a source of energy from a
peat bog near Buyongwe.
15.       Consumption of peat has been very low--only about 1% of the
urban poor use it--and the Burundian army purchases about 80% of all
peat  produced.    The  greatest  potential  market,  of  course,  is  in
household use, but considerable time and exposure to use of this fuel,
(which is not traditional), would be required to make it acceptable.
Technological issues, such as the improvement of stoves to burn the peat
efficiently and to minimize the acrid smoke which is emitted during
burning, also require solution before Burundi can benefit from this
resource.
16.       Rwanda - There has been no reliable estimate of the available
peat reserves or the extent of the exploitable resources. Two bogs near
Ruhengheri are under small scale production, and the principal consumer
is a cement plant with a 10,000 ton per annum capacity. In addition, a
pyrethrum flower processing plant, (widely used for insecticides) near
Ruhengheri uses about 2,000 tons of peat per year.
17.          The development of peat is under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Natural Resources, which has a geological engineer working
full-time.    The  Irish  government  is  currently  providing  external
assistance for peat prospecting and experimental extraction at Busoro.
Over US$380,000 of assistance is being provided, and some of these funds
will be used for pilot testing of a method to briquet papyrus stalks. A
program funded by UNIDO for development of peat was completed in 1980.
The French government has now proposed to finance a feasibility study



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 11
for a cyanamide plant near Cyangugu, and one component of the study
would be an assessment of the possibilities of using the peat as fuel.
At present, the Belgian government is financing a project to use
peat from the Cyabaralika peat bog for a cement plant.
18.       Zaire (Kivu) - There are no known sources of peat in the Kivu
province, although it is found extensively in other parts of the
country.
(iv) Other Resources
19.         Solar - With the region located just south of the equator,
solar radiation is quite high and should provide an attractive
alternative to a portion of the high cost imported energy; however,
except in Rwanda where solar heating is being used, little advantage is
being taken of this solar energy either for water heating or for crop
drying.   The Centre d'etudes et d'applications de l'energie au Rwanda
has done considerable work on solar installations, and several units
have been installed to heat water in homes and hotels.
20.          Methane - There  is an enormous potential resource in the
methane content of Lake Kivu, where, unlike almost any other lake, its
temperature increases with depth. The warm water at the bottom contains
more dissolved salt than the cool water above it, and being more dense,
normal thermal convection is prevented.  About 1.4 cu. m of gas methane
is dissolved in each cubic meter of water.   Its source is not clearly
understood. The extraction of methane is quite straightforward, in that
low level water is brought to the surface through a pipe, and as it
rises to lower pressure levels, the gas comes out of solution.  During
1963 to 1976, a small scale plant extracted gas which was used in the
Gisenyi brewery, but the facility eventually failed due to lack of
maintenance and repair.  The plant is now being repaired under a UNIDO
financed project, and the bulk of the gas would be used to produce
electricity in a 700-kW former diesel-electric generating plant.  Zaire
and Rwanda are studying institutional problems associated with the
sharing of this resource, and discussions are now underway on the
economics of large scale gas production for fertilizers and chemicals,
for vehicles and small stationary engines, and for process heat or
electricity generation. With this potential contribution to the energy
sector, there is ample justification to study this potential in greater
detail than has occurred to-date.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 11
21.             Geothermal  - Both  Burundi  and Rwanda  have  geothermal
potential, estimated at about 50 MW and 100 MW respectively,l/ but few
funds have been made available for detailed study or  reconnaissance.
At present, the enormous cost of exploratory drilling does not seem to
be worthwhile.
Imported Energy: Petroleum
22.       Both   Burundi   and   Rwanda   are   entirely   dependent   on
foreign sources for their supply of petroleum products. Due to their
their landlocked location, they are particularly at a disadvantage to
potential suppliers, and as a result the cost of imported petroleum is
about US$100 per barrel,  including about US$37 freight.   Until 1977,
almost all of the oil imports crossed Tanzania by rail from Dar es
Salaam to Kigoma and was then barged up Lake Tanganyika to Bujumbura.
However, tank car shortages reduced the capacity of the railway, and as
a result since 1981 all of the oil imported to Burundi and Rwanda is
refined in Mombasa, transported by pipeline to Nairobi, and loaded into
tank trucks for a 1,500 to 1,700 kilometer journey via Uganda.   Zaire
has a similar  problem.   It must  depend  on the  importation  of  its
petroleum needs at Matadi on the Atlantic, shipment by rail and barge to
Kisangani (1600 km), and transportation a further 1,200 km by road to
Bukavu.  A study of the possibility of obtaining oil at a lower price by
building a pipeline from the Indian Ocean to Burundi and Rwanda,
indicated that the project would be uneconomical because of the low
volume of petroleum products used in the region.
23.          Burundi - The per capita consumption of oil products  in
Burundi is quite low, about 11 liters per year and the total demand for
the country is only 800 barrels per day. In 1980, petroleum products
amounted to 10% of the value of the total imports. There is very little
opportunity to develop indigenous resources as a substitute to petroleum
since the largest quantity of the petroleum products is used in the
transportation  industry.    A  number  of  mini  hydro  schemes  under
construction will reduce the demand for petroleum products used for the
generation of electricity in small remote centers.  However, due to cost
and convenience, the generation of electricity in small units for
hospitals   and   administrative   centers   scattered   throughout   the
countryside  will  continue  to  increase  the  demand  for  fuel.    The
substitution of electric boilers for oil-fired boilers in industry is
also a possibility, but this cannot occur until the availability of
low-cost electricity is more widespread and sufficiently abundant to
provide supply to a reliable industry.
1/  "The  Geothermal  Potential  of  East  Africa,  Geothermal  Ex,  Inc.
Consultants), June, 1982.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 11
24.       Rwanda  - The problems which plague Burundi also result in the
high cost of petroleum products in Rwanda.   The per capita consumption
is quite low, about 13 liters per year, and there is very little use
other than in motor vehicles.  Rwanda's economy is very vulnerable to
interruptions in the transportation of oil, such as that which occured
during the early part of 1979, when events in Uganda led to the closure
of  the  road  to  Kenya.    As  a  result,  Rwanda  is  now  considering
the installation of oil storage tanks sufficient to store an additional
10 million liters, - or about two months' supply.  At present, about 6
million liters are in storage and the Fonds d'aide et de coopgration
(FAC) has been requested to assist in construction of the additional
storage capacity.
1.25       Zaire - Although Zaire has its own petroleum fields on the
Atlantic coast, and in Bandandu province in the west,it is unable to
process this oil in its own refinery, because the refinery was designed
to process a lighter grade of imported  oil.   All fuel for Zaire is
imported through the port of Matadi, some 3000 km distant from Kivu.
Thus, the Kivu region suffers from the same problems of Burundi and
Rwanda in extremely high fuel costs, and the lack of a direct reliable
service.  Kivu has attempted   to reduce its dependency on petroleum by
changing the oil-fired boilers in Burri and Bukavu to electric power,
with a result in saving of about 6,000 liters per annum of fuel oil.
The per capita consumption of oil product in Kivu is quite low, and
there is little possible of developing any resources to displace this
small  portion  of  petroleum,  because  most  consumption  is  in  the
transportation industry for which substitutes are not available.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 11
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Potential Hydroelectric Sites in Rwanda
Estimated
River            Site           Installed Power        Annual Production
_____               (MW)                   (Gwh/Year)
Ruvubu           Gitega                 25                       117
Mumwendo               30                       157
Murongwe               11                       47.3
Kitenge          Rwegura                 18                      64
Kagunuzi         Masango                  8                      33
Kabulantwa       Rushiha                 16                     100
Bitare                 26,0                    153.2
Kagunuzi A             26.1                    153.2
Kagunuzi B              12.8                    75.4
Mpanda           A                        9t8                    57.1
B                       1.7                     12.3
C                      18                       11.6
D                       3.9                     23.0
E                       2.0                     12.7
Muzazi           Mubimbi                  1.8                    13.3
Mumasumo                 1.7                    12.2
Rushubi                 2.3                     16.9
Muzinda                 3.5                     25.6
Ntahangwa        Ntahangwa               4.0                     32.2
Kanyosha         A                        2.9                    17.5
B                       4.8                     30.0
Mugere           Mugere                  8.0                     48.4
Karonge/         A                        3.5                    20.4
Kirasa           B                       10.2                    63.5
C                       6.1                     38.4
D                       0.6                     15.1
E                      12.6.                    73.5
Ruzibazi         A                        1.8                    10.3
B                       5.3                     32.0
C                       6.1                     39.1
D                       5.2                     33.1
E                      14.2                     92.8
TOTAL            32 Sites              304.9                  1.630.8



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 11
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Potential Hydroelectric Sites in Burundi
Estimated
Installed Power      Annual Production
River             Site                  (MW)                (Gwh/year)
Rusumu           Rusumu                     2.6                   12.2
Nyabarongo       Nyabarongo                12.6                   88.3
Sebeya           Gihira                     1.0                    8.1
Sebeya           Nyundo (Keya)              1.8                   11.6
Mukumgwa         Mukungwa II                2.9                   14.6
Base             Base                       3.4                   19.7
Akanyary         Akanyaru I                 0.48                   3.78
Akanyaru         Akanyaru II                2.0                   16.1
Rukarara         Rukarara                   6.4                   23.5
Ruhwa            Ruhwa                      6.0                   35.0
Kamiranzovu      Kamiranzovu                0.7                    5.3
Karundura        Karundura                  1.3                   11.4
Kdaba            Ndaba                      0.24                   2.1
Nkora            Nkora                      0.15                   0.6
Satinsyi         Satinsyi                   0.55                   4.8
TOTAL            15 Sites                  42.12                 257.0



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Page 11 of 11
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Potential Hydroelectric Sites in ZAIRE (Kivu)
Theoretical
Head        Discharge        Power Output
River           Name                 (m)         (m3/sec)           (MW)
Ruzizi          Panzi                            66.00               36.0
Ruzizi          Kitimba                                              33.6
Ruzizi          Kamanyola                                           240.0
Luberizi        Luberizi           28.00           1.50               0.3
Mutambala       Malitchia            6.50         11.20               0.6
Kiringye                                              0.2
Kiliba          Kiliba            545.00           2.00              15.0
Luhulu          Mugomba            140.00         16.60              18.0
Lubero          Lubero              45.00          2.50               1.7
Musosa          Itav-Butembo         7.60          1.50               0.1
Semliki         Smeliki            20.00          23.00              28.0
Butawo          Ruwenzori I       180.00           3.10               6.0
Lusilube        Ruwenzori II       180.00          2.50               6.0
Luhulu          Kisalala           175.00          3.10               5.0
Musosa          Ivugha             60.00                              2.0
Rutshuru        Rutshuru            23.00         14.00               2.6
Fuku-Fuku       Rutshuru F         25.00           1.40               0.3
Ulindi          Mwenga              30.00         27.50               6.6
Talya Sud       Muhuma            280.00           8.10              25.0
Mweso           Ngingwe             15.00         18.00               2.2
Mweso           Binza               25.00         12.00               2.5
Nyakisuma       Nyakisuma         172.00           0.50               0.7
Osso            Osso                10.00         17.20               1.4
Elila           Kindu
TOTAL           24 sites                                            433.8



BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project
BURUNDI - CO'YYCERICAL ENERGY BAILNCE, 1973-81
(tons oil equivalent)
1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980          1981
PRISARY PRODUCTION
Hydro                                                                                -           -          1080          330
Peat                     -           -           -           -            10         510         680        1020         1860
Total                                                                10         510         680        2100         2190
IMPORTS
Gasoline                9800       13500       10100       12700       12890       15270       13700       18050        20500
Kerosene                3200        2500        1700        1700        1040        1310        1070          910        1560
Diesel & Fuel Oil       6500        9900        7000        9100        9210       12290       11750       16300        18900
(Subtotal)       (19500)    (25900)    (18800)    (23500)    (23140)    (28870)    (26520)            (35260)      (40960)
Electricity         4  5990         6170        6330        6720        7540        8630        9100       10200        11270
25490       32070      25130        30220       30680       37500       35620       45460        3z  5
TR.LNSFO2N'ATION                                                                                                                     m
Petroleum Products    -370          -370        -340        -340        -340        _400         400        _220         -380
Electricity              260         260         240         240         240         280         280          150          270
FINAL CONSUMPTION
Petroleum Products   19130         25530       18460       23160       22800       28470       26120        35040        40540 75
Electricity             6250        6430        6570        6960        7780        8910        9380        11430        11870 22
Peat                     -          -            -           -            10         510         680        AQQ           18603
Total            25380       31960       25030       i9120        30590       37890       36180       47490        54270 100
% Change                 -            25         -22           20          2          24           -5         31            14
Sources: M.inistry of Commerce and Industry.                   Notes: Ton of oil equivalent taken as 10.5
Banque de la Republique du Burundi                             million kcal.
Bank, IXF, and USAID estimates.                              Electricity converted at 2666 kcal/kWh.
Thermal generation assumed to require 3800
kcal/kWh.
Stock changes included in consumption.
Traditional fuels excluded since only very
rough estimates based on presumed annual
population could be provided.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional-Hydroelectric Power Project
Rwanda - Commercial Energy Balance
(ton oil equivalent)
1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980
PRIMARY PRODUCTION
Methane                 1000       1000                   - 
liydroelectricity       9537      10581      10748       5363        7744      10092
Total          10537      11581       10748      10092       7744       5363
IMPORTS
Gasoline               13188      16392      19111       22334      20089      26450
Kerosene                6077       4311        3111       5199       6618       7325
Gas-oil                10862      15065      12243       12614      12746      14479
Other Pet. Products   3703         3895       6137        3930       5370       4190
(Subtotal)   (33830)   (39663)   (40602)   (44077)   (44823)   (52444)
Electricity              288        477         530       4179       8432      11385
Total          34118      40140       41132      48256      53255      632-9
TRANSFORLYMrION
Petroleum  Products    -734        -659       -810        -171       -185       -522
Electricity              515        462         568        120        130        366
C0ONSUMPTION
Petroleum Products   33096        39004      39792      43906       44638      51922
Electricity            10341      11520      11847       14391      16306      17113
Methane                 1000       1000         -          -          -          -
Total          44437      51524       51.639     58297      60944      69035
Sources: Ministries of Natural Resources and Planning, UN Energy Statistics.
1980 petroleum figures are six-monttt data multiplied by two.
NZotes:   Ton oil equivalent taken as 10.5 millioni kcal.
Electricity converted at 2666 kcal/kWh for international
comparability.
Thermal generation assumed to require 3800 kcal/kWh.
Stock changes included in consumption.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Regional Organizations
Communaute economique des pays des grands lacs (CEPGL)
1.        The Communaut6 economique des pays des grands lacs (CEPGL), is an
organization which was established in September 1976 to revive the former
cooperation among the three countries which existed under the Belgian
administration prior to independence.   CEPGL was formed to promote free
movement of persons and goods within the area, and to cooperate politically
and economically within the region as it relates to other countries  in
Africa. The entity is made up of a council of ministers, one from each of
the countries, which meets twice a year and reports to an annual meeting of
the presidents of the three countries - the highest authority of the
organization.   The day-to-day  activities  including  the  preparation and
execution of programs and coordination within the administration of the
three countries is handled by a Secretariat located in Gisenyi, Rwanda.
CEPGL receives assistance from USAID, France, Belgium and FED for the
preparation of feasibility studies.   The Bank is carrying out a study of
CEPGL (to be completed in FY84) which would include a review of proposed
projects,  the  exploration  of  potential  operations  of  the  regional
development bank (BDEGL), the possibility of expanding trade among the
member countries, and the need for a regional transportation policy.
2.            CEPGL has sponsored a glass bottle manufacturing factory in
Burundi, and in June 1981, the International Finance Corporation (IFC)
approved a loan of US$4.0 million and an equity investment of US$0.75
million for its construction.  Another activity is exploring the potential
for the production of methane from the deep waters of Lake Kivu (Annex 1,
para. 20).      Several  issues  need  to be resolved  before  an investment
program for gas development can be defined; for example, the legal and
institutional framework for gas extraction by Rwanda and Zaire; the safety
limitation and the establishment of the rate at which the gas can be
extracted; and the nature and the extent of the market and the derivative
products.   The potential contribution of the development of gas to this
area is still in the distant future.
Energie des pays des grands lacs (EGL)
3.         EGL was set up to ensure the availability of electric power in
the region, and as a result has promoted the construction of the Ruzizi II
hydroelectric power project on the Ruzizi River downstream from the
existing Ruzizi generating station on the border between Zaire and Rwanda
(Map IBRD 15917).   This organization, located in Bujumbura, Burundi,  is
staffed with three technical experts - one each seconded from REGIDESO,



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Burundi; ELECTROGAZ, Rwanda, and SNEL, Zaire; together with a small support
staff.
Kagera Basin Organization (KBO)
4.         This organization has its headquarters in Kigali, Rwanda, and as
in the case of EGL, is made up of a small staff seconded from each
country.  At the request of KBO, several reports have been prepared on the
development of the Kagera River - 1967, Lahmeyer International; 1976,
Norconsult and Electrowatt; 1979, Tractionel and Electrobel.
5.           Little action was taken on the final report until 1981 when,
during meetings held by KBO in Bujumbura in May, which were headed by the
Presidents of Burundi, Rwanda and Tanzania, a decision was made to proceed
with further study of the low-head i.e. a run-of-river scheme, at the
Rusumo Falls site on the Kagera River. However, a source of funds for the
study has not yet been found.   Because of its magnitude and cost, it is
likely that construction on this project may not begin until near the end
of the 1980s.  Nevertheless, Tanzania is interested in the development of
this project because, of the three countries, it has the least potential
for hydro generated power in this region.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
BURUNDI -RWANDA- ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
The Three National Electricity Companies:
REGIDESO - ELECTROGAZ - SNEL
Burundi: REGIDESO
1.           REGIDESO is an enterprise wholly owned by the Government of
Burundi, created and organized by a Government decree numbered 1/196 and
dated October  2,  1968.    The  objectives  of  REGIDESO  are  to  generate,
transmit and distribute electricity, and to pump, treat and distribute
water, and execute or supervise studies and works for new electricity and
water facilities. Its electricity and water tariffs should be periodically
adjusted to obtain a "reasonable" rate of return on the net revalued fixed
assets  in  operations.    REGIDESO  has  the  monopoly  of  distribution  of
electricity and water throughout the country but in fact it only operates
in urban centres of Bujumbura, Gitega, and Burundi for electricity and
water, and eight other towns for water alone.l/   In addition, REGIDESO is
planning to supply an additional ten centres with electricity or water
within the next three years. A presidential decree 100/48 dated March 14,
1979 created and organized a Sanitation Division within REGIDESO, but its
functioning is not related to the rest of the company.
2.           REGIDESO is under the supervision of the Ministry of Energy,
Mines and Public Works through the Director General of Energy, who has been
appointed Chairman of REGIDESO's Board of Directors by the Ministry of
Energy and Mines. Three of the statutory members are the Directors General
of the Ministries of Finance, Planning and Public Health, and two
additional members, one appointed by the Chamber of Commerce to represent
industrial consumers, the other by the Municipality of Bujumbura to
represent the small consumer.  Both of the latter appointments require the
approval of the Ministry of Energy and Mines. The Board is responsible for
all decisions necessary or useful to the achievement of REGIDESO's
objectives, and it is solely authorized to make decisions regarding
REGIDESO's assets, establish REGIDESO's administrative and financial rules,
regulate personnel organization, propose tariff increases and prepare the
annual budget. The General Manager, responsible for REGIDESO's day-to-day
operations, is appointed by the President of the Republic on the
recommendation of the Minister of Energy, Mines and Public Works with the
approval of the Board of Directors. Two account controllers (commissaires
aux comptes) are appointed by the Minister of Finance with wide powers to
1/ Bukirasazi, Kirundo, Muramvya, Muyinga, Ngozi, Rumonge, Rutana and
Ruyigi.



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
verify the company books and to approve the accounting systems and
procedures, and they report to the Ministers of Finance and of Energy and
Mines annually.
3.            REGIDESO is well organized.   Three managers,  including the
manager of the Sanitation Division (para. 1), report to the General
Manager.     The  Technical  Manager  supervises  electricity  and  water
operations, which are subdivided as follows:   operations  in Bujumbura,
operations in other towns, studies, and projects; he also supervises civil
works, and the garage and maintenance divisions.   The Administrative and
Financial Manager supervises billing, collecting, procurement, accounting,
and personnel. The present General Manager was appointed to his position
in November 1978 and has managed the company satisfactorily.
4.         Personnel and Training - REGIDESO employed a total staff of 610
at  the  end  of  1981,  of  whom  24  were  university  graduates:  190  for
electricity, 220 for water, 10 for civil works, garage and workshop; and 90
for administrative and financial tasks.   There are 70 managerial  staff
members  and  540  skilled  and  unskilled  workers.    As  there  are  5,550
electricity consumers in Burundi, REGIDESO has an average of one employee
per 19 consumers.   In view of the small size of its system, REGIDESO's
ratio of employees to consumers does not seem excessive in comparison with
other East African countries. 2/  From 1975 to 1978, when the volume of
sales of electricity and water increased respectively by 58% and 52%,
manpower more than doubled.   Future  increases  of skilled and unskilled
workers should be monitored carefully to be kept within the limits of the
increase  in activity.    Eight  expatriates,  funded  by German government
assistance, work for the electricity and water divisions where they train
counterparts   -   three  as  senior  advisers  for electricity,  water  and
finance, and five as technicians. In addition to the Technical Manager and
the two officers responsible for electricity and water operations, there
are eleven engineers for electricity and three for water. These engineers,
educated abroad, are employed in the studies and projects unit and assigned
to the various works under construction.
5.        Accounting and Audit - REGIDESO's accounting department is under
the supervision of the Administrative and Financial Manager. Aware of the
accounting   department's   inability   to   produce   financial   statements
acceptable to IDA, in November 1979 REGIDESO asked IDA to provide funds for
consultancy work in accounting and audit, including revaluation of fixed
assets, and received US$100,000 of Technical Assistance Credit 917-BU
(later increased to US$125,000).  REGIDESO chose the Nairobi branch of the
international audit firm, Touche Ross, which worked in Bujumbura from June
through August 1981 and produced a report in which it:
2/ Botswana 9; Malawi 12; Zaire 21; Swaziland 23; Sudan 24; Madagascar 38;
Kenya 40; Ethiopia 60; Mauritius 74.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
- valued REGIDESO's fixed assets as the result of the work of
the consultants, Gordon, Melvin and Partners; estimated at FBu
2,300 million (US$25 million) the value of the Mugere hydro-
electric station financed by the Chinese Government and built
by a Chinese team, for which there were no financial records;
revalued all other assets; increased the revaluation reserve by
FBu 550 million;
- separated the electricity and water accounts and audited
REGIDESO's 1980 accounts but was unable to audit the accounts
for the previous years, because of the poor state of REGIDESO's
accounting;
- made recommendations for better adaptation of REGIDESO's
accounting to the national accounting system for improving
accounting   procedures   and   for   implementation   of   cost
accounting, budget control system and long-term forecasts;
- recommended that an experienced chief accountant help REGIDESO
implement its recommendations, as the present personnel would
be unable to do so;
- recommended  training  of  cash,  cost,  budget  and  general
accountants in another French speaking country.
6.        REGIDESO has asked IDA to finance an accounting expert to improve
REGIDESO's accounting system (para. 2.23), who would work closely with the
administrative and financial adviser financed by German aid.   In July 1982
Touche Ross returned to audit REGIDESO's 1981 accounts.   To continue the
work that has been started, management covenants for REGIDESO were agreed
upon at negotiations of the prepared project (para. 5.11).
7.         A unit under the supervision of the Administrative and Financial
Manager deals with procurement and budget.   The budgets it produces are
simplistic and would be improved with the coming of the proposed accounting
expert.
8.            Insurance - REGIDESO's assets  in operation are not  insured
through  commercial  organizations  against  the  usual  risks  of  fire,
explosion,  third  party,  etc.    The  assets  are  looked  upon  as  being
Government-owned and the risks to the assets are therefore assumed by the
Government,  although  no  specific  insurance  fund  exists  within  the
Government.   Contractors employed by REGIDESO are required to obtain the
usual transit and other insurance cover under the terms of their
contracts. These insurance provisions are acceptable to the Association.



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
Rwanda: ELECTROGAZ
9.           ELECTROGAZ is the parastatal organization wholly owned by the
Government of Rwanda, and is responsible for the generation, production,
transmission and distribution of water in urban areas and electricity and
gas throughout the country and its monopoly of this responsibility for a
period of 99 years was established by Decree Law No.  18 in 1976.   It
currently reports to the Ministry of Public Works.
10.       ELECTROGAZ is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of five
members including a Chairman. Members are appointed for three years by the
President of the Republic from nominations made by the Minister of Public
Works.   The law also provides  for a Commissioner of the Government  to
oversee the activities of ELECTROGAZ and monitor decisions of the Board.
He is invited to all meetings of the Board where he acts in an advisory
role. He has a right of recourse to the responsible Minister within eight
days if he considers a decision of the Board to be contrary to the law or
against the public interest.  The Minister's decision must be given within
30 days of receipt of the notification from the Commissioner, otherwise the
Board's decision is final.
I1.         The decree (para 9) also provides for the appointment of two
account controllers (commissaires aux comptes) with the responsibility of
overseeing the accounting and financial operations of ELECTROGAZ. They are
required to report to the Minister on the annual balance sheet and income
statement.  The controllers are notmally laymen (one is the Rwanda Consul
in Mombasa) and cannot be accepted in lieu of an independent auditor.
12.       ELECTROGAZ is currently organized into three departments:
- Water and Gas Department;
- Electricity Department; and
- Administrative and Finance Department.
The  three  department  heads  report  to  the  General  Manager.    However,
management is ineffective, both because of a shortage of adequately
qualified and experienced personnel, and a lack of financial resources with
which to operate efficiently.
13.             Long  term  planning  for  both  water  and  electricity  is
non-existent.  Electric power projects are planned and implemented by the
Ministry of Public Works, on an ad hoc basis. However, the planning may be
improved as a result of work financed by the Swiss Government and to be
completed in 1983 by the Institut polytechnique de Lausanne, to produce a
least cost long term power development program.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
14.          Project management and accounting for the power projects are
inadequate as the cost of works in progress and of completed projects is
unknown.   In turn this creates doubt about the accuracy of the historical
values of fixed assets and work in progress.
15.        ELECTROGAZ's operational management requires improvement in all
areas: technical, financial, administrative, procurement and planning. A
preliminary management study has been carried out by Societe d'amenagement
urbain et rural (SAUR), a French water utility, financed by CCCE which also
intends to finance the follow up studies and the technical assistance that
will ensue.  IDA was consulted and approved the terms of reference for the
management  assistance  for  the  Rwanda  Water  Project  (para.  20).    The
management team will be expected to address numerous tasks including tariff
studies, accounting, financial management and operations of a combined
water, electricity and gas utility.  The management team is expected to be
drawn from SAUR, the third largest water utility in France.
16.           Personnel and Training - ELECTROGAZ had a staff of 898 in
mid-1982 of whom 28 were university graduates. All categories of staff are
in need of training from management levels downwards. ELECTROGAZ has about
4,300 water customers and 4,700 electricity consumers which gives an
employee/consumer ratio of about 1:10 on an aggregate basis, indicating
that ELECTROGAZ is overstaffed, or more significantly that the number of
connections is low and that most of the stations are on a small scale.
Many of Electrogaz's provincial power stations have less than 100 consumers
which require a basic minimum  of  staff.   The  excess  of employees  is
difficult to estimate without the findings of the management assistance
team (para. 15). Standards and organization of work need to be improved in
all  areas  of  the  utility's    operations  as  ELECTROGAZ  suffers  from  a
shortage  of  trained  staff  rather  than  a  shortage  of  staff.    Five
expatriates, funded by German Government assistance, and two others funded
by FED, are senior advisers for electricity.
17.          Accounting and Audit - ELECTROGAZ has a detailed accounting
system which is designed to produce useful information on annual operating
costs  and  statistics.       However,  data  arrives  late  from  branches,
consolidation  into  the annual  summaries  is delayed,  and  the method  of
presentation obscures an overview of the operations.  No accounting system
for capital works exists and the cost of projects are obtained from often
incomplete estimates by the planning unit of the Power Service and the
Ministry of Public Works. Detailed information is available on receivables
but other asset and liability figures in the balance sheet require
reconciliation to prove their accuracy.  ELECTROGAZ is working on this in
respect of 1981 accounts.
18.        'Consumers' billing is carried out on a National Cash Register
mini-computer which was installed early in 1982, and the production of
monthly bills  is working well.   In time,  payroll,  stores  and  general
accounting will be transferred to the computer with an expected improvement
in the accounting efficiency.



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
19.        A financial management/accounting expert will be included in the
proposed management assistance team (para. 15) to improve tLe financial
management and accounting of ELECTROGAZ, to install a capital expenditure
system and improve the accounting generally.
20.       An external audit of ELECTROGAZ's annual accounts has never been
carried out, although from time to time, checks have been made by the
controllers (para. 11). The first Rwanda Water Project now in process will
require that the first audit of ELECTROGAZ be carried out for FY81 by a
firm of auditors acceptable to IDA to be a-vailable prior to presentation of
the project to the Board in June 1983.  Thereafter, ELECTROGAZ would have
to comply with management covenants agreed upon at negotiations for the
proposed project (5.10).
21.             Insurance  - Insurance  in the past,  apart  from  statutory
insurance, has only covered freight and transport of goods as ELECTROGAZ
has operated on the Government basis of self insurance without making any
provision for an insurance fund. Under the water project (para. 20)
ELECTROGAZ would be requested at negotiations to undertake a review of this
policy with a view to providing insurance cover for assets the loss of
which could cause an unacceptable risk to ELECTROGAZ and Rwanda.
22.         Management - Systematic management is almost wholly absent from
the operations  of ELECTROGAZ.    Progress  reports  are  produced  for AfDB
financed projects when supervision missions require them, otherwise reports
related  to  physical  and  financial  progress  are  not  produced.    Annual
reports covering the technical and financial aspects of operations are
produced months after the end of each year and lose their value for
management.      Monthly,   quarterly  or  half-yearly   financial   reports
are not  produced.   The management  assistance  team  (para.  15)  will  be
required to establish a management reporting system.
Zaire (Kivu): SNEL
23.         SNEL is a Government-owned public enterprise created in 1970 3/
but effectively recreated in its present form by Ordinance 78-196 dated May
5, 1978, which gave SNEL a new statute setting out in detail the
organization and authority necessary to discharge its responsibility for
the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity throughout
Zaire under the Ministries of Energy and of Investment (Portefeuille).
3/  SNEL was initially technically created by Ordinance 70-033 of May 16,
1970 with responsibility for the construction of Inga I hydroelectric
generating  station.   Ordinance 74-023 of February 9, 1974 extended
SNEL's powers to the operation of the sector and Ordinance 74-012 of
July 10, 1974 dissolved the six existing private power companies
COMETRIK, Les Forces de 1'est, Les Forces du Bas Zaire, SOGEFOR,
SOGELEC and COGELIN.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
Under article 16 of its Ordinance, SNEL is required to operate at a profit
sufficient to cover previous losses, to set aside a statutory reserve of 5%
of its profit (up to 10% of its capital), and to generate such other
reserves as may be agreed by the ministries.
24.       SNEL is governed by a Board of Directors of five to nine members,
all nominated by the President of the Republic for a five year term.  The
Directors include the Delegue general (DG) and two directors of the
Management Committee. The President of the Board of Directors which meets
at least every two months, is also the DG of the Management Committee. The
Directors and a Workers' Representative are responsible for the executive
management  of  SNEL.   A four member  controller  commission  (College des
commissaires des comptes), has the right to examine all of SNEL's
activities and operations.
25.        SNEL, with its head office in Kinshasa, is organized into five
geographical regions and Kivu is part of the Eastern region with its head
office in Kisangani. Accounts are kept centrally and separate accounts are
maintained covering Head Office, five regional and four subregional units,
three administrative units covering the systems transferred from REGIDESO
(Zaire) in January 1979, Inga I generating station, and the existing
transmission system.  In practice, some 122 positions of senior management
(40%) are either vacant or in some cases are held by the same person
because of a severe shortage of suitably qualified candidates.
26.         The Eastern region comprises a technically autonomous regional
office in Kisangani responsible for regional management, technical control,
the  transmission  system and  local  distribution.    Financial  control  is
exercised by the Head Office in Kinshasa, including the accounting and
central pool bank account. Bukavu is the head office of SNEL's Kivu
subregion that comprises the production and distribution systems in the
cities of Bukavu, Goma, Uvira, Kindu, Kasongo and Butembo.   The Ruzizi I
hydroelectric   station   supplies   Bukavu  directly,   and  Uvira  through
Bujumbura. It will supply Goma when the transmission line Katana-Goma is
completed  at  the  end  of  1984  (para.  2.11).   The Kivu  local  staff and
management are competent, and power failures have been mainly due to
shortages of materials and the lack of replacement equipment which
requires foreign exchange.
27.          Personnel - In 1979 SNEL employed 4,481 staff to supply some
95,000 consumers - an average of one employee per 21 consumers. In view of
the nature of SNEL's operations which include some 32 diesel installations,
12 hydro-generating stations, and a number of widely scattered isolated
systems, the ratio of employees to consumers does not appear to be
excessive in comparison with other East African countries (footnote 2,
para. 4). In the three cities of Bukavu, Goma and Uvira alone, there are
250 staff for 5,000 consumers, with approximately the same ratio as for
SNEL as a whole.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
28.        By the end of 1979, expatriate staff had declined to 32 out of a
total 665 employees of technician grade or higher. SNEL is endeavouring to
improve its public utility, management and business practices and to this
end a French expatriate Secretary General presently advises the DG and also
undertakes some executive management functions, an expatriate financial
director and a chief accountant are financed by CCCE. Technical assistance
will also be provided by IDA under Credit 1224-ZR for the Shaba project
(para. 2.20).
29.        Accounting and Audit - In its loan to Zaire for the rehabilita-
tion project of the Kinshasa distribution system, CCCE included the
appointment of the accounting and audit firm Helios to carry out a partial
audit of SNEL.  In view of deficiencies in SNEL's accounting and billing
system, SNEL's 1979 and 1980 accounts must be accepted with extreme
caution. But as a result of new appointments to the positions of financial
manager in 1981 and chief accountant in early 1982 (para. 28), more
reliable accounts are expected for 1981.   Furthermore,  SNEL's accounting
structure will soon be reinforced by the provision for the appointment of a
financial manager for the Southern region and for a study of SNEL's manage-
ment, financial and commercial organization by a management consultant as
part of the Shaba project (para. 28).  As there are no separate accounts
for the Kivu province or for the Kivu interconnected system which will be
connected to Ruzizi II, management covenants were agreed upon for SNEL at
negotiations for the proposed project (para. 5.11).
30.         Insurance - SNEL's assets in operation are not insured through
commercial organizations against the usual risks of fire, explosion, third
party, etc. The assets are looked upon as being Government owned and the
risks to the assets are therefore assumed by the Government, although no
specific insurance fund exists within the Government. Contractors employed
by SNEL are required to obtain the usual transit and other insurance cover
under the terms of their contracts. These insurance provisions are accept-
able to the Association.



-60-                               ANNEX 6
BURUNDI RWANDA ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project
Interconnected System Electricity Sales (MWh) in BURUNDI
X                  %     Publ.Bldg.Serv.   %                     x
Year      Domestic  Change  Industry  Change   and Lighting   Change          TOTAL   Change
Actual
1976       10,191       -       7,612      -          8,555         -        26,358      -
1977       10,628       4       9,408     23          9,666        14        29,702    13
1978       11,691      10      11,445     22         10,870        11        34,006    14
1979       13,445      15      12,011      5         10,372        -7        35,828     5
1980       14,950      11      14,101     17         11,120        11        40,171    12
1981       16,724      12      16,434     17         11,236        -1        44,394    11
Forecast
1982       18,400      10      19,200     17         11,900         6        49,500    12
1983       20,200      10      22,300      16        12,600         6        55,100    11
1984       22,300      10     30,600      37         13,400         6        66,300    20
1985       24,500      10     37,200      21         14,100         6        75,800    14
1986       26,900      10     43,000      16         15,000         6        84,900    12
1987       29,600      10     47,000       9         15,900         6        92,500     9
1988       32,600      10     51,100       9         16,800         6       100,500      9
1989       35,800      10     55,200       8         17,800         6       108,800     8
1990       39,400      10     59,700       8         18,900         6       118,000     8



- 61 -                         ANNEX 7
BURUNDI RWANDA ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project
Interconnected System Electricity Sales (MWh) in RWANDA
%      Public     %       Cormerce &      %                 %
Year      Domestic  Change  Agencies  Change    Industry    Change    Total   Change
Actual
1975        4,781      -       6,930      -      -24,889          -     36,600
1976        5,328      11      7,266      5       27,686         11     40,280     10
1977        6,495     22       9,159     26       28,817          4     44,471     10
1978        7,917     22      11,301     23       29,170          1     48,388      9
1979       11,009     39      10,906     -3       31,426          7     53,341     10
1980       13,421     22       9,476    -13       35,771         14     58,668     10
1981       15,615      16     10,075      6       38,127          7     63,817      9
Forecast
1982       18,100      16     10,500      4       40,400          6     69,000      8
1983       21,000      16     10,900      4       42,500          5     74,400      8
1984       24,200      15     11,300      4       45,000          6     80,500      8
1985       27,500      14     11,800      4       49,100          9     88,400     10
1986       36,100     31      12,300      4       53,400          9    101,800     15
1987       39,900      11     12,700      4       58,000          9    110,600      9
1988       44,700      11     13,300      4       63,300          8    120,600      9
1989       43,700      11     13,800      4       69,000          9    131,500      9
1990       49,000      11     14,300      4       75,000          9    143,300      9



- 62 -                                 ANNEX 8
BURUNDI RWANDA ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project
Interconnected System-Electricity Sales (MWh) in ZAIRE (Kivu)
Year             Domestic  Change         Industry   Change          TOTAL   Change
Actual
1980              16,440        -              700       -           17,140
1981              17,730        -            1,190      70           18,920    10
Forecast
1982              17,800        -            6,700    460            24,500    30
1983              17,900        -            9,200      37           27,100    11
1984              18,500        3           11,700      27           30,200    11
1985              24,600       33           151
1988              32,000        9           26,500      25           58,500    16
1989              34,100        7           28,900       9           63,000      8
1990              35,800
1988              32,000        9           26,500      25           58,500    16
1989              34,100        7           28,900       9           63,000      8
1990              35,800        5           32,000       9           67,800      8



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
BURUNDI RWANDA ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project
Generating Facilities, Burundi
REGIDESO Interconnected System
Rated       Available
Site              No       Type                      Capacity       Capacity
(kW)          (kW)
Bujumbura          1      Diesel                       320
2      Diesel                      1500
3      Diesel                       440
4      Diesel                       440
5      Diesel                       440
6      Diesel                       440
7      Diesel                       920
8      Diesel                      1000
5550        About 2000
Mugere             1      Hydro                       2000
2      Hydro                       2000
3      Hydro                       2000
4      Hydro                       2000
8000           6,000
REGIDESO Isolated Generating Plants
Gitega             1      Diesel                       120             120
2      Diesel                       200               0
3      Diesel                       240             240
560            360
Gitega             1      Hydro                        400             400
2      Hydro                        400             400
800             800
Kirunlo            1      Hydro                        240             240
Muramvya           1      Hydro                        425
2      Hydro                        425              _
850             850
Muyinga            I      Hydro                        425             425
2      Hydro                        425             425
850             850
List of Privately Owned Generating Equipment
Owner
Taza               1      Hydro      Tea estate        340             200
2      Diesel    Tea estate         300             300
3      Diesel    Tea estate         300             300
940             800
Rwegura                   Diesel    Tea estate         200             200
Cibitoka                  Hydro      Mission            80              80
Mugere                    Hydro      Mission            60              60
Mwara                     Hydro      Sanatorium         80              80
Imbo                      Diesel    Farm               200             200
Kihonga                   Diesel    Mission             60               60
Ngozi                     Diesel    Mission             80              80
Diesel    School              40              40
Burasira                  Hydro      Mission            20
Miscellaneous missions   Diesel    60 Missions         360             360
Provincial HQ             Diesel    7 provinces         40              40
Hospitals                 Diesel    5 hospitals        100             100
Post & Telephone Offices Diesel    17 offices          100             100
Others                    Diesel    Private            100             100
GRAND TOTAL           13,400



-64-
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE                   ANNEX 10
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project
Generating Facilities, Rwanda
ELECTROGAZ
HYDRO                 Unit No.   Capacity (MW)   Year Installed
Ntaruka                  1            3.75              1958
2           3.75               1958
3           3.-75              1970
Gisenyi                  1            0.5               1980
2           0.5                1980
Mukungwa                 2           12.0               1981
DIESEL
Gisenyi                  1            0.2               1979
2           0.1                1979
Gatsaka                  1            0.7               1978
2           0.7                1978
3           0.7                1978
Kibuye                   1             .50 KVA          1974 (out of
service)
Kibongo                  1            0.75              1974
Private
Unit No.   capacity (1iW)   Year Installed    RPM
Bralirwa Brewery         1             .3               1978         1,500
2             .3               1976         1,500
3             .3               1976         1,500
Rwandex Coffee           1             .16              1979         1,500
2             .16              1979         1,500
Pfunda Tea Factory       1             .35              1978



ANNEX 11
- 65 -
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Generating Facilities, ZAIRE (Kivu)
Hydroelectric Installations                     Diesel Installations
Rating    Year                  Capacity    Year
Name    Location  Unit No.   (MW)   Installed        Name       (MW)    Installed
Ruzizi  Bukavu        1         6.3     1958        Butembo      0.3      1969-71
2        6.3      1958       Kasongo      0.6       1970
3        7.8      1972       Goma          1.2      1972
4        7.8      1972       Kindu         1.2      1955
Total                          28.2                              3.3
Summary of Privately Owned Hydro Stations
Year           Rating
Name                Owner              Installed          (MW)
Ambwe               Sominki               1955           2.30
Belia               Sominki                              2.00
Kalima I            Sominki               1943           3.10
Kalima II           Sominki               1952           3.30
Kampene             Sominki               1954           1.67
Lubindja            Sominki               1954          0.44
Lubilu              Linenga               1955           0.735
Lutunguru           M.G.L.-Nord                          0.22
Mangembe            Sominki               1955           2.47
Monkoto             Opak                                 0.22
Nyabiondo           Theki                                0.135
Zizi                M.G.L.-Sud                           1.53
Kunda               Sominki
Lutshurukuru        Sominki
18.1



- 66 -
ANNEX 12
page 1 of 3
BURUNDI RWANDA ZAIRE
Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project
Project Description
Location
1.         The proposed project would be located on the Ruzizi River, which
forms a border between Rwanda and Zaire, about 15 miles south of the
existing Ruzizi generating station at the outlet of Lake Kivu. Most of the
dam and all of the intake, tunnel, powerhouse, switching station, access
roads, and operators' housing would be located in Zaire. At this site, the
river flows through a wide valley on its approach to a series of rapids
where the fall is about 30 m over a distance of about 600 m.
Reservoir
2.           There would be little need for an extensive reservoir at the
Ruzizi II station, because the original Ruzizi plant provides ample storage
in Lake Kivu.   The only storage required would be to prevent spillage or
waste of water during periods of fluctuating daily demand for power in
parallel with the existing Ruzizi station.  Normally the water level would
vary between elevation 1,390 m and 1,394 m providing storage amounting to
2.6 million m3, which is equivalent to the generation of about 63 MWh. In
the event of a catastrophic flood, the water level may attain an elevation
of 1,396 m.
Dam
3.         A concrete dam with a maximum height of 11 m and with a crest
elevation of 1,396.5 m, would be constructed across the river immediately
upstream from a series of rapids.   Its total length would be 91 m and a
free overflow spillway section, 42 m long, with a crest elevation of
1,394.0 m, would be located in the central part of the dam.  A spillway
section would be incorporated on the right side of the dam, containing two
control gates 8 m wide and 5.8 m high.
Intake
4.         A conventional intake would be located on the right bank of the
river containing 2 head-gates each 3 m wide and 6 m high, to control the
flow of water entering the tunnel.  Trash racks upstream of the head-gates
would prevent debris from entering the tunnel.   Suitable facilities to
clean the trash racks would be provided.
Tunnel, Surge Tank and Penstock
5.           The power supply tunnel would be excavated from the rock and
lined with concrete.  The 6 m diameter tunnel would be about 500 m long.



- 67 -
ANNEX 12
page 2 of 3
6.          The surge tank would be of the orifice type, and would have an
internal diameter of 18 m, with the top at an elevation of 1,400 m.  In
order to provide the greatest security to the equipment during sudden load
changes, three sizes of orifices would be provided:  3.9 m, 4.0 m, and 4.1
m in diameter.  The orifice could be changed in accordance with operating
experience and when the third unit is installed.   The penstock, with an
inside diameter of 5.2 m, would be about 50 m long. At the lower end, the
penstock would branch into three outlets leading into the powerhouse, where
a control valve would be located immediately upstream of each turbine.
Powerhouse Equipment
7.            Two turbines and generators each rated at 13.3 MW would be
installed in the initial stage, with space provided for a third similar
unit. The turbines would be designed to operate under a head varying from
28.1 m to 32.25 m, at a speed  of 187.5 rpm.   All  of  the necessary
auxiliaries required for control and safety of the equipment would be
provided. The generator, directly coupled to the turbine shaft, would have
a thrust and guide bearing located below the generator, and an upper guide
bearing. Current and voltage control would be provided to ensure a secure
and reliable service.   The generators would produce power at 6.6 kV, 50
hz.  Auxiliary services, such as cooling water, air, and lubricating oil
systems would  be  included.   The control room  in the powerhouse would
contain the necessary equipment to operate the units from the control
panel automatically, i.e., open and close the control valve upstream of the
turbine, change the output of the generators, and shut down in the case of
emergency. All necessary alarms and safety equipment would be provided for
all important  functions.   Other  auxiliary  services,  such  as  lighting,
grounding, telephone, fire protection and a workshop would be incorporated
in the powerhouse. In addition, an inventory of spare parts and consumable
supplies, sufficient to cover about three years of operation, would be
provided by each of the equipment suppliers.
Operators' Colony
8.           The proposed project would be situated close to the town of
Bukavu;  therefore,  on the assumption that the  lower  level  staff would
reside in Bukavu at a minimal expense, only a minimum of housing need be
located close to the powerhouse for the senior staff.  Fifteen houses would
be provided as follows:
Manager                      1
Station Superintendent      1
Administration               1
Chief Operators             3
Operators                   8
Guest House                 1
Consultants
9.          The consultants to EGL for the preparation of the feasibility
report, advice during the colenders' meeting, and the preparation of tender
documents and analysis of bids have been provided by Tractionel, from



- 68 -
ANNEX 12
page 3 of 3
Brussels, Belgium. EGL has decided to terminate the contract with
Tractionel and is in the process of negotiating a contract with a new firm
of consultants to carry out the final design phase and supervise
construction.
10.       IDA is aware that SINELAC would have only a minimum of staff
available to manage a project of this magnitude. Thus, SINELAC would be
requested to a employ a management team consisting of a civil engineer, a
mechanical-electrical engineer and a financial expert to advise and assist
in the day-to-day management of the project. In addition, a panel of
experts would be retained to advise on specific design and construction
problems relating to the dam, and to make periodic inspections after
completion of construction.
11.       The training of adequate staff to operate and maintain the
project, once completed, would be an essential element of the project. To
this end, therefore, a component of the project would be a study of the
training needs of not only the Ruzizi II project, but those of REGIDESO,
ELECTROGAZ, and SNEL as well. The terms of reference of the management
team would include a responsibility to train counterpart staff, so that
when the management team leaves, about two years after the commissioning of
the generating station, staff with the necessary experience would be
capable of providing a supply of reliable electric power to the region.



BURUNDI-RWANDA-ZAIRE                                                               ANNEX 13
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWR PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ millions)
Int. During
Govt.          Govt.        G(vt.   Grace Period                 (Gand
IDA           BDEGL           FED            Italy        Burundi       Rwanda         Zaire   (Capitalized)    Total       Total
Total    Total
L     F         L   F           L      F        L   F         L   F         L   F         L   F           L        L     F
Civil Works                   -   42.0         -   -          -      -        -   -         2.3-         2.3-           2.3   -                  6.9  42.0   48.9
Hydraulic Equipment           -      -                       0.3    3.7       --                             -          -    -                   0.3   3.7     4.0
Turbines                      -      -         -    -        0.2    6.3        -   -        -    -        -   -          -    -                  0.2   6.3     6.5
Generators                    -      -         -   -          -      -       0.2  5.5      -     -        -   -         -    -                   0.2   5.5     5.7
Powerhouse (Elec.Equip)       -      -         -    -         -      -       0.2  2.6      -    -         -    -        -    -                   0.2   2.6     2.8
External (Elec. Equip)        -      -         -    -        0.9    3.9       -   -        -     -        -   -         -    -                   0.9   3.9     4.8
Road & Housing                -      -        0.7  1.2        -      -        -   -         -    -        -    -         -    -                  0.7   1.2     1.9
Engineering                   -      -         -    -         0.7    4.5       -   -       -     -        -   -          -    -                  0.7   4.5     5.2
Technical Assistance 1/       -    3.0         _    _         -      _        -   -        0.7   -       0.7   -       0.7   -                   2.1   3.0     5.1
Total Project Cost             -   45.0        0.7  1.2       2.1   18.4      0.4  8.1      3.0   -      3.0   -        3.0   -                 12.2  72.7   84.9
Interest during
grace period (8 years/10 years)
(capitalized)                 -      -         -   _          _                                       46.0    46.0-                                          46.0
TOTAL                               45.0       0.7  1.2       2.1  18.4       0.4  8.1      3.0           3.0           3.0            46.0    58.2  72.7  130.9
1/ Includes cost of study of need for a training school, the PPF of $195.000, Panel of Experts, and working capital of US$1.2 million.



BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI 11 REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982            1983            1984            1985             1986            1987            1988             1989
T2E3      4234  1 23 4 1   23 3                            4  1 2 3                  4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4    234
CML WORKS                            *                       -   -  - -      -   -   -  -   -  L
HYDRAULIC EQUJIPMENT                                             -           -       --I 
TURBINES                                   l                              -  - _   _         - _
GENERATORS- -- - --- --
POWERHOUSE ELECTRICAL                       U Sv- - -- - -                                   - -- -
SWATCHING STATIONS                          *                                        - v   _    _   _   _    _  - i   e  -
TRANSMISSION LINE                           a   S                                           
ROADS AND HOUSING          . _               V _   _  _  _       - _
ENGINEERING- - -- -                                          - - - --                             - 
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- -- - -- - -- --- -- - - - - -                                                                                        -
Legend:
*    Tender Documents Issued                    Work In Progress
41-
*    Receipt of Tenders                    W    In Service Date
V    Contract Award                                                                                                World Bank-24561



- 71 -                          ANNEX 15
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
IDA Fiscal Year             Quarterly              Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending             Disbursement                at end of Quarter
1984
September 30, 1983              4.0                         4.0
December 31, 1983               1.0                         5.0
March 31, 1984                  3.0                         8.0
June 30, 1984                   3.0                        11.0
1985
September 30, 1984              4.0                        15.0
December 31, 1984               5.0                        20.0
March 31, 1985                  5.0                        25.0
June 30, 1985                   5.0                        30.0
1986
September 30, 1985              4.0                        34.0
December 31, 1985               3.0                        37.0
March 31, 1986                  2.0                        39.0
June 30, 1986                   2.0                        41.0
1987
September 30, 1986              2.0                        43.0
December 31, 1986               1.0                        44.0
March 31, 1987                  0.1                        44.1
June 30, 1987                   0.2                        44.2
1988
September 30, 1987              0.1                        44.3
December 31, 1987               0.1                        44.4
March 31, 1988                  0.1                        44.5
June 30, 1988                   0.1                        44.6
1989
September 30, 1988              0.1                        44.7
December 31, 1988               0.1                        44.8
March 31, 1989                  0.1                        44.9
June 30, 1989                   0.1                        45.0



- 72 -
ANNEX 16
page i of 3
SINELAC - Legal and Organizational Framework
A. General
SINELAC is an etablissement de droit public international, i.e.,
an international public enterprise which will operate as a commercial
company.  It is established by a Treaty which has been agreed upon and is
scheduled to be ratified by the three contracting states.  It is governed
by:
(i)   the Regional Treaty between the three Governments,  which was
drawn up specifically for the purpose of the Ruzizi II Project;
(ii)  the Statutes of SINELAC which contain its corporate by-laws and
which form an integral part of the Treaty; and
(iii) subsidiarily by the Investment Code of the Community of the Great
Lakes and the law of SINELAC's headquarters (i.e. Bukavu, Zaire).
B. The Regional Treaty
The  Regional  Treaty  defines  the  legal,  organizational  and
financial framework of SINELAC (the Company) and stipulates in particular
that:
(i)   SINELAC  has  as  its  principal  objective  the  construction  and
operation of Ruzizi II.  SINELAC is also empowered to construct,
acquire and manage other energy installations.
(ii) SINELAC's shareholders are the three contracting states, who will
contribute equally to its capital.   Shares are denominated  in
SDR.
(iii) The Company is established for a 50-year renewable period and its
headquarters are at Bukavu, Zaire.
(iv)  The  Company  is  exempt  from  all  taxes  and  its  personnel  are
entitled  to  the  privileges  and  immunities  granted  to  the
personnel of other community institutions as set out in the
Community Statutes, dated September 9, 1977.
(v)   The  Company  is  administered  by  three  bodies:    the  General
Assembly, the Board of Directors and the Management Committee.
These are described in greater detail below.
(vi)  The Company will operate on a commercial basis.  Production will
be sold wholesale to the three national electricity companies who
will undertake to cover at a minimum SINELAC's operation and
maintenance expenditures and debt service.
(vii) The Company's average electricity tariffs will be established
initially at a level close to the long term marginal cost of
electricity.



- 73 -
ANNEX 16
page 2 of 3
(viii)  Arbitration:    The  Community  has  an  arbitration  commission
to which the three countries have agreed to submit disputes
between themselves.l/
C. The Statutes
The Statutes of SINELAC are annexed to the Regional Treaty and define
in detail the organizational and administrative structure of the Company.
In particular, the Statutes state that:
(i)   Each contracting party will contribute four million SDR to the
capital of the Company.  Payment of initial equity contributions
is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
(ii)  The General  Assembly will  consist  of  the three ministers  of
energy who will meet  once a year.   Its purposes  are  (1) to
appoint directors to the Board (2) to appoint the General Manager
of the Management Committee, (3) to appoint the accounts
controllers (commissaires aux comptes), and (4) to discuss and
approve the financial statements of the company for the previous
year. Decisions are to be made on a concensus basis.
(iii) The Board of Directors has six members, two from each country.
They are nominated by the General Assembly for a five-year term
which is both renewable and revocable.   The Director General of
the Management Committee also sits on the Board in a consultative
capacity.   The Board elects a President and two Vice Presidents
each year; the three individuals having different nationalities.
(iv)  The  Board  shall  meet  as  frequently  as  the  interests  of  the
Company require and whenever the Board considers it necessary.
In any event, Board meetings will take place at least once every
six months.    The  Board's  powers  shall  include  among others:
consideration of all operations affecting the Company, approval
of the company's budget for the following year as proposed to it
by the Management Committee, and establishment of annual and long
term investment and operational plans.   Director's remuneration
is decided by the General Assembly and falls within the Company's
general operating costs.
D. The Management Committee comprises three members - the Director-general
who is nominated by the General Assembly and two others who are nominated
by the Board.   The three members will have different nationalities.   The
Management Committee has wide-ranging powers which include all functions
necessary for the day-to-day operation of the Company, i.e., representation
of the Company, appointment and removal of all managers, employees,
representatives and agents and approval and acceptance of all agreements,
contracts, bids, undertakings,  leases etc.   In particular the Management
Committee proposes tariff increases to the Board of Directors. At the time
I/ The three Credit Agreements and the Project Agreement have arbitration
provisions in the event of dispute with the Association.



- 74 -
ANNEX 16
page 3 of 3
of making the proposal it also consults with the three national electricity
companies. In the absence of objection from the Company's Board within 60
days of the Management Committee's proposal, the proposal comes into
immediate effect (Article 17.4 of the Regional Treaty).
Existing Agreements between the three Contracting Statutes
1.  Financial
(a)   Raglement Financier of CEPGL, dated September 9, 1977.
(b)   Arrangement Monetaire between the three Central Banks, dated
June 7, 1978.
2.  Freedom of Movement
(a)   Commercial and Customs Cooperation Agreement, dated September 10,
1978.
3. Labor
(a)   Statutes of community personnel, dated September 9, 1977.   This
sets out detailed provisions on recruitment, nomination, promo-
tion, responsibilities, privileges, immunities, remuneration,
holidays and travel expenses, disciplinary measures, termination
of services and a model employment contract.
(b)   Convention on social security, dated September 10, 1978.
(c)   Administrative arrangements for social security.



- 75 -
ANNEX 17
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Project Monitoring
1.           Several factors affect the project schedule and the ultimate
completion of the work. The main items to be monitored are as follows:
(a) Call for tenders and signing of contracts;
(b) Progress on delivery of material and equipment;
(c) On-line date for Units 1 and 2;
Technical Assistance
2.        Progress and effectiveness of the technical assistance provided.
Financial
3.           During project construction, IDA would ensure that SINELAC's
accounts are prepared yearly, and that the three national electricity
companies provide their respective Governments with the funds necessary for
project financing, estimated to be US$0.9 million in 1983, US$2.8 million
in 1984, US$3.1 million in 1985, US$1.5 million in 1986, and US$0.2 million
in each year 1987 and 1988.
4.        In the year prior to commissioning, IDA would review with SINELAC
and a consultant the calculation of the average tariff to obtain a 10%
financial rate of return for the project, in view of the revised costs of
construction,   the   latest   demand   projections   and   SINELAC's   cash
requirements.   IDA would also review with SINELAC and the three national
electricity companies the minimum payment requirements of the first years
of operation.
5.              After  commissioning  expected  in 1987,  IDA would monitor
semiannually the adherence to the rate of return covenant.   It would ask
SINELAC to prepare each year five-year financial forecasts for discussion
before the end of any year of the level of tariffs for the following year.
IDA would also monitor semiannually the minimum payment requirements by the
three companies, the convertibility of SINELAC's quarterly balances among
the regional currencies by the three central banks, and the payment of
dividends by SINELAC to the three Governments, whenever SINELAC has cash in
excess of its normal needs.



- 76 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
SINELAC's Forecast Income Statements 1983-1995
(US$ million)
1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
Sales in GWh
(before losses)                 27   57   18   48   79   113  149   188   200
US cents/kWh sold                10.2 10.8 11.5 12.1 12.8  13.7 14.5  15.3  16.2
Operating Revenues                2.8  6.2  2.1  5.8 10.1  15.5 21.6  28.8  32.4
Operating Expenses
Salar.& Materials                1.0  1.0  1.1  1.2  1.2  1.3   1.4   1.6   1.7
Depreciation on:
Assets                          0.6  0.7  0.7  0.9  1.0  1.1   1.3   1.5   1.7
Current expenses
during construction &
interest capitalized         0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   -        -    2.1   2.1
Total                  1.8  1.9  2.0  2.3  2.4  2.4   2.7   5.2   5.5
Operating Income                  1.0  4.3  0.1  3.5  7.7 13.1  18.9  23.6  26.9
Interest charged                  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  8.0   7.5   7.2   6.7
Net Income                        0.9  4.2   -   3.4  7.6  5.1  11.4  16.4  20.2
Dividends paid                     -    -    -    -    -    -        -   15.0  19.0
Earnings after                    0.9  4.2   -   3.4  7.6  5.1 11.4    1.4   1.2
payment of
dividends
Retained Earnings                          0.9  5.1  5.1  8.5 16.1 21.2 32.6   34.0



- 77 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
SINELAC's Forecast Funds Flow Statements 1983-1995
(US$ million)
1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994  1995
Sources of Funds
Generated from
operations
Operating Income                           1.0  4.3  0.1  3.5  7.7 13.1 18.9  23.6 26.9
Depreciation                              0.8  0.9  0.9  1.1  1.2  1.1  1.3   3.6  3.8
Total                           1.8  5.2  1.0  4.6  8.9 14.2 20.2  27.2 30.7
Loans and Grants
IDA onlent loan    5.3 14.9 17.1  6.5  0.6  0.6  -    -    -    -    -           -    -
FED loan            1.0  5.4  5.2  5.2  -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -
FED grant           0.3  1.2  1.1  1.1  -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -
Italian Govt grant -    2.9  2.4  3.2  -    -    -    -    -    -    -           -    -
BDEGL               1.4  0.5  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -
Reg.Govts for
proj.components   0.8  2.5  2.9  1.2  0.2  0.2  -    -    -    -    -           -    -
Reg.Govts for
working capital   0.1  0.3  0.4  0.4  -    -    -    -    -    -    -           -    -
Loan for interest
during grace
period 1/          -    1.4  3.3  5.0  5.6  2.2  6.5  3.7  0.2  -    -    -    -
Total       8.9 29.1 32.4 22.6  6.4  3.0  6.5  3.7  0.2  -    -         -    -
Total Sources         8.9 29.1 32.4 22.6  8.2  8.2  7.5  8.3  9.1 14.2 20.2  27.2 30.7
Application of Funds
Construction
expenditures
Ruzizi II
components          8.8 27.4 28.7 17.2  0.8  0.8          -    -    -    8.0   -    -
Interest capi-
talized during
grace period
IDA 1/            -    1.4  3.3  5.0  5.9  6.6  6.8  7.6  8.0  -         -    -    -
FED               -    -    -    -    0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   -    -
Current expenses
during construction
period               0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -     -
Total      8.9 29.0 32.2 22.4  6.9  7.6  7.0  7.8  8.2  0.2  8.2   -    -
Debt service
Repayment           -    -    -    -    0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  4.5  4.5   5.1  5.1
Interest            -    0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  8.0  7.5   7.2  6.7
Total      -    0.1  0.1  0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3 12.5 12.0  12.3 11.8
Dividends             -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    15.0 19.0
Total
Applications       8.9 29.1 32.3 22.5  7.2  7.9  7.3  8.1  8.5 12.7 20.2  27.3 30.8
Increase in
Working Capital      -    -    0.1  0.1  1.0  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.6  1.5  -    -0.1 -0.1
Accumulated
Working Capital      -    -    0.1  0.2  1.2  1.5  1.7  1.9  2.5  4.0  4.0   3.9  3.8
1/ The loan for interest during grace period would be capitalized, and would be added
to the on-lent amounts at the time such interest would be normally due. The
differences in yearly amounts between the loan for interest during grace period and
IDA interest capitalized during grace period are the result of SINELAC's payments
of IDA credit service charges and FED's interest (Annex 20, table 1) and payments
of US$4 million in 1988, US$3.5 million in 1990 and US$7.5 million in 1991 to
reduce the interest accrued during the grace period.



- 78 -                                ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
SINELAC's Forecast Balance Sheets 1983-1995
(US$ million)
1983 1984 1985 1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992 1993  1994  1995
Assets
Plant in operation  -    -    -    -    93.8 100.2 106.2 112.6 119.4 126.5 142.1 150.7 159.7
less:
depreciation   -    -    -    -       0.6   1.3   2.1   3.1   4.3   5.7   7.3   9.3  11.5
Net plant           -    -    -    -    93.2  98.9 104.1 109.5 115.1 120.8 134.8 141.4 148.2
I/
Works in progress  10.0 38.8 70.8 93.0   -        -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -
Current expenses &
interest paid during
construction period, and
interest capitalized
during grace period
after construction 0.1  0.4  0.7  1.0   7.1  13.9.  20.9  28.7  36.9  37.1  37.3  37.3  37.3
less depreciation  -    -    -    -        0.2   0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0   1.0   1.0   3.1   5.2
Net capitalized
expenses            0.1  0.4  0.7  1.0   6.9  13.5  20.3  27.9  35.9  36.1  36.3  34.2  32.1
Net working cap.    -    -    0.1  0.2   1.2   1.5   1.7   1.9   2.5   4.0   4.0   3.9   3.8
Total Assets   10.1 39.2 71.6 94.2 101.3 113.9 126.1 139.3 153.5 160.9 175.1 179.5 184.1
Liabilities
Equity
-Capital 1/        2.1  4.9  8.2  9.8  10.0  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2  10.2
-Retd Earnings    -    -    -    -       0.9   5.1   5.1   8.5  16.1  21.2  32.6  34.0  35.2
-Grants(Italy&FED)0.3  4.4  7.9 12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2  12.2
-Revaluation
reserve      -    -    -    -        -    5.6  11.5  17.8  24.4  31.2  38.5  46.6  55.1
Total            2.4  9.3 16.1 22.0  23.1  33.1  39.0  48.7  62.9  74.8  93.5 103.0 112.7
Long term debt    7.7 29.9 55.5 72.2  78.2  80.8  87.1  90.6  90.6  86.1  81.6  76.5  71.4
Total
Liabilities    10.1 39.2 71.6 94.2 101.3 113.9 126.1 139.3 153.5 160.9 175.1 179.5 184.1
1/ Including initial capital of $1.2 million representing the value of FED financed studies
for EGL.



- 79 -
ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Assumptions in SINELAC's Financial Forecasts
Sales
1.          Sales for the period 1987-1995 were calculated on the basis of
the mission's demand estimates, the preferences of the three national
companies, REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL, for any of the three main
available sources of supply, Ruzizi I, Ruzizi II and Rwegura facilities,
and from the requirement of minimum payments by each of the national
companies from the Ruzizi II plant (Annex 18).
Tariffs
2.        Average tariffs expressed in 1982 prices have been calculated to
enable the Ruzizi II project to obtain a 10% financial rate of return.
They have been increased in nominal terms from 1988 onwards by a 6% annual
rate of inflation, to keep their level constant in 1982 prices.
Operating expenses
3.          Through dividends received from the three national electricity
companies  (para.  7  below),  Governments  would  provide  SINELAC  with
sufficient  funds  for  its  working  capital  requirements  during  the
construction period and a first payment of US$300,000 for 1984 would be a
condition of effectiveness for the project.
4.        Salaries, materials and maintenance expenditure are assumed to be
equal to 1% of the construction costs of the Ruzizi II facilities and a
year's depreciation to be equal to 3.5% of the average revalued gross fixed
assets at the beginning and the end of that year.
Depreciation
5.        Progressive depreciation is modelled on the schedule of a sinking
fund calculation in order to obtain an amount equal to the facilities
expenditures back in thirty years, given a 30% salvage value.   Money set
aside is assumed to be invested at 8% from 1987 onwards, providing for a
drop in interest rates.  Depreciation is revalued by the same index as the
fixed assets (para. 8 below).
Construction expenditures
6.         Construction expenditures are as estimated by the consultant for
the Ruzizi II project.



- 80 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
Financing of the project
7.         Terms of borrowing of the onlent IDA credit are assumed to be a
repayment period of twenty-five years including an eight-year grace period
and a 10.97% rate of interest.   Terms of borrowing of the BDEGL loan are
assumed to be a repayment period of thirteen years, including a three-year
grace period and a 7.5% rate of interest.   Terms of borrowing of the FED
loan are assumed to be a repayment period of forty years including a
ten-year grace period and a 1% rate of interest for one part of its
contribution,  the other part being a grant.   The Italian Government's
financing and the three regional Governments' are assumed to be grants.
Funds for Governments' contributions would be provided by the three
national electricity companies which would increase their tariffs to obtain
enough cash to pay necessary dividends.
Revaluation of assets
8.           Assets are revalued with the international inflation indexes
(para. 4.02).



- 81 -                 ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Determination of the Minimum Purchase Level from Ruzizi II
by REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL
It was agreed on July 9, 1982 in Brussels that the three aational
electricity companies, REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL would commit them-
selves to provide SINELAC with at least one third of the funds needed to
cover its cash expenditures for operations, maintenance and debt service.
Each of the three companies would be assumed to purchase the corresponding
quantity of electricity, as it would be paid for.  Estimation of SINELAC's
cash expenditures is derived from the works of the consultants (Trac-
tionel's estimates revised by Lahmeyer) for the project.   Physical supply
from the three plants of Ruzizi I, Ruzizi II and Rwegura comes out of the
demand projection (Annex 19) and the cost of Ruzizi II electricity is
determined by requiring a 10% financial rate of return for the project.
The cost of Ruzizi II electricity is then utilized to compute the minimum
purchase requirement in gigawatt hours.1/ The supply quantity from the
plants, the price of Ruzizi II electricity and minimum purchase require-
ments are all interrelated and several iterations are necessary to attain
the final results as it is presented in the following paragraphs.
SINELAC's debt service has been computed for IDA's onlent credit
of US$45 million with a 10.97% interest rate and a repayment period of 25
years including eight years of grace, for a direct loan from BDEGL of
US$1.9 million with a 7.5% interest rate and a repayment period of thirteen
years including three years of grace, and for FED's direct loan of US$16.8
million with a 1% interest rate and a repayment period of forty years,
including ten years of grace. It has been assumed that SINELAC would pay
IDA's annual service charge of 0.75% after commissioning of the Ruzizi II
facilities and that interest on the onlending of the IDA credit would be
capitalized during the grace period and would accrue to the loan, after
deduction of the amounts paid as service charges and interest, and of any
other amount paid to reduce the interest charge capitalized during the
grace period. SINELAC's cash expenditures including debt service on these
three loans would be as follows:
1/ The economic cost of Ruzizi I electricity (before losses) has also been
calculated, on the basis of a replacement value of US$1.8 million/MW,
similar to the unit cost of Ruzizi II, to verify that it is smaller than
the economic cost of Ruzizi II (US3.8/kWh compared to USt7.3/kWh) and
that whenever they have the opportunity, the national electricity
companies would prefer to buy electricity from Ruzizi I rather than from
Ruzizi II.



- 82 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 2
Table I
In current US$ million         1987 1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Operating costs                1.0   1.0   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.6   1.7
Debt service/IDA repaymt    -         -     -      -      -     4.3   4.3   4.3   4.3
IDA interest2/ 0.3   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.4   7.9   7.4   6.9   6.5
FED repayment  -       -      -     -      -      -      -     0.6   0.6
FED int.  3/   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
BDEGL repaymt  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
BDEGL interest 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   -
Total cash expenditures        1.8   1.9   1.9   2.0   2.1  14.0  13.6  13.9  13.5
These cash expenditures, expressed in GWh with Ruzizi II's 1982 price of electri-
city, updated with international inflation (Annex 17, para. 2), are equal to the
minimum payment requirements of the three national electricity companies and the
corresponding production of Ruzizi II.
Table 2
(quantities of electricity are expresssed before losses)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Ruzizi II's current price
of electricity in US/kWh,
using internatl.inflation
indexes (US7.3/kWh
in 1982 prices)          (1) 10.2  10.8  11.5  12.1  12.8  13.7  14.5  15.3  16.2
Ruzizi II's total cash ex-
penditures(in US$mill.)(2)  1.8   1.9   1.9   2.0   2.1  14.0  13.6  13.9  13.5 4/
(in GWh) 100x(2)
(1)   =      (3) 18    18    17    17    16   102    94    91    83
2/    Service charge on IDA credit until  1991,  interest  charged  to operations
from 1992 onwards.
3/   Interest  during grace  period from 1987 through 1993,  interest  charged  to
operations in 1994 and 1995.
4/   From Table 1



- 83 -                       ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Forecast Sales of Ruzizi I and Ruzizi II Facilities in the Period 1983-1995
The capacity and demand of the interconnected system are shown in
the attached table.   Because there would be a choice of two sources of
supply in 1987 and in 1988 (Ruzizi I and II) and of three sources of supply
from 1989 on, to compute the sales of Ruzizi I and Ruzizi II, the
preference of REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL have been determined on the
following assumptions:
- the Ruzizi II plant would be commissioned in March 1987 and the
Rwegura plant in March 1989;
- the three national companies would first purchase from Ruzizi
II the quantity of electricity corresponding to the minimum
purchase agreement because it would be paid for;
- SNEL would buy the balance of its needs from Ruzizi I because
the plant is a sunk cost and the cost of its electricity is
zero;
- REGIDESO would buy from Ruzizi I the 33 GWh 1/ which SNEL is
obliged to supply to REGIDESO and the Government of Burundi
under the 1980 twenty-five year long-term agreement following
settlement of claims at the time of independence (in 1987 and
1988 it would take from Ruzizi I all that is available).   It
would take the balance of its needs first from Rwegura, because
the plant is a sunk cost and the cost of its electricity is
zero, then from Ruzizi II;
- ELECTROGAZ would buy the balance of its needs first from what
is available from Ruzizi I after SNEL and REGIDESO are
supplied, because its electricity is less expensive than that
of Ruzizi II (Annex 20), then from Ruzizi II.
In 1987 and 1988, purchases of electricity corresponding to the
total minimum payment requirements would be 18 GWh each year (Annex 20,
table 2) and would be exceeded by REGIDESO's and ELECTROGAZ's consumption
(in 1987, 13 and 22 GWh respectively; in 1988, 29 and 28 GWh respectively,
table next page), so that SNEL's minimum payment would be reimbursed by
SINELAC  (para.  6.06).    In  1989  after  commissioning  of  the  Rwegura
facilities, purchases of electricity corresponding to the total minimum
payment  requirements  would  be  17  GWh.    They  would  be  exceeded  by
ELECTROGAZ's consumption (18 GWh), and REGIDESO's and SNEL's minimum
payments  would  be  reimbursed  by  SINELAC.    From  1990  onwards,  actual
consumption would far exceed the quantity corresponding to the total
minimum payment requirements.
1/ 31 GW4h after losses



-84-                               ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 2
Capability and Demand in the Three-Country Interconnected System
(in GWh before losses)
1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995
Capability
BURUNDI
Mugere                10   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25   25
Rwegura                -  -  -  -  -  -  -64 64 64 64 64 6464
RWANDA
Ntaruka               20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20
Mukungwa              48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48
Gisenyi-Gihira         -    -    -    -   23   23   23   23   23   23   23   23   23   23
ZAIRE
Ruzizi I             150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150
Ruzizi II              -    -    -    -    -  140  140  140  140  140  140  200  200  200
Total Capability       228  243  243  243  266  406  406  470  470  470  470  530  530  530
Demand                                                                + 8%-         -
BURUNDI                 57   63   76   88   98  107  116  125  136  147  159  171  185  200
Burundi - domestic  10   25   25   25   25   25   25   89   89   89   89   89   89   89
Ruzizi I              47   38   51   63   73   69   62   36   33   33   33   33   33   33
Ruzizi II                                         13   29    -   14   25   37   49   63   78
+ 8%-          -           _
RWANDA                  80   85   93  101  117  127  139  151  164  177  191  207  223  241
Rwanda - domestic   68   68   68   68   91   91   91   91   91   91   91   91   91   91
Ruzizi I              12   17   25   33   26   22   20   42   39   32   24   16    7   -
Ruzizi II                                         14   28   18   34   54   76  100  125  119
Deficit                                                                                       31
+ 9%
ZAIRE                   28   31   35   46   53   59   68   72   78   85   93  101  110  120
Ruzizi I              28   31   35   46   53   59   68   72   78   85   93  101  110  117
Ruzizi II                                          -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    3
TOTAL DEMAND           165  179  204  235  268  293  323  348  378  409  443  479  518  561
SURPLUS             63   64   39    8   -2  113   83  122   92   61   27   51   12  -31
(Rwegura           -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
from (Ruzizi I          63   64   39    8   -2    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -
(Ruzizi II                                   113   83  122   92   61   27   51   12    -
Ruzizi II Sales        0    0    0    0    0   27   57   18   48   79  113  149  188  200
Ruzizi I  Sales       87   86  111  142  152  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150  150



ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Comparision of the Economic Cost of Electricity
Sold to Consumers from Ruzizi I and Ruzizi II
Ruzizi II
(The cost amounts are in constant US$ September 1982 million)
Sales of
Construct.                                    Total         Ruzizi II
Cost & Tech   Operating       Cost of         Cost             (GWh)
Years        Assistance    Costs (1%)    renewal         Ruzizi II   (before losses)
1983            8.21           0.00         0.00             8.21           0
1984           24.14           0.00         0.00           24.14            0
1985           23.87           0.00         0.00           23.87            0
1986           13.63           0.00         0.00           13.63            0
1987            0.78           0.70         0.00             1.48          27
1988            0.78           0.70         0.00             1.48          57
1989            0.00           0.70         0.00            0.70           18
1990            0.00           0.70         0.00            0.70           48
1991            0.00           0.70         0.00             0.70          79
1992            0.00           0.70         0.00            0.70          113
1993            4.03           0.70         0.00             4.73         149
1994            0.00           0.75         0.00            0.75          188
1995-2005       0.00           0.75         0.00            0.75          200
2006            0.00           0.75         8.00            8.75          200
2007-2016       0.00           0.75         0.00            0.75          200
2017          -30.00           0.75         0.00          -29.25          200
Present Value
Total Cost            Total Sales
Discount Rate       Ruzizi II              of Ruzizi II
10%           US$61.4 million            835.9 GWh
The economic cost of electricity of Ruzizi II at a 10% financial rate of return
would then be:
61.4 = USV7.3/kWh in September 1982 prices.
835.9



- 86 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 2
Ruzizi I
(The cost amounts are in constant US$ September 1982 million)
Sales of
Cost of renewal                 Ruzizi II
Constr.   Operating  and of rehabilit. Total Cost          (GWh)
Years        Cost     Costs (1%) (US$ 1.5 million) Ruzizi I  (before losses)
1983         50.00      0.50           0.00            50.50             86
1984          0.0        0.50          1.50             2.00           111
1985          0.0       0.50           0.00             0.50           142
1986          0.0        0.50          0.00             0.50            152
1987-2005    0.0        0.50           0.00             0.50           150
2006          0.00       0.50          5.00             5.50            150
2007-2016    0.00       0.50           0.00             0.50           150
2017       -10.00        0.50          0.00            -9.50            150
The construction cost of Ruzizi I is estimated on the basis of US $1.8
million/MW, as for Ruzizi II's.
Present Value
Discount   Total Cost         Total Sales
Rate        of Ruzizi I       of Ruzizi I
10%      US$51.7 million  1,351.6 GWh
The economic cost of electricity of Ruzizi I at a 10% financial rate of
return would then be:
51.7 = US+3.8/kWh in September 1982 prices.
1,351.6
It has been assumed in forecasts of financial statements for
REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL that Ruzizi I would progressively increase
its tariffs to reach in 1987 USV3.8/kWh, expressed in September 1982
prices.



- 87 -
ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 4
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
REGIDESO POWER
Income Statements - 1982-1989
(FBu Millions)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
SALES IN GWH
INDUSTRIAL COMM GW        27.3    31.1    40.0    47.3    53.9    58.8    63.8    69.3
DOMESTIC GWH              24.1    26.9    30.1    33.4    36.3    40.0    44.0    48.7
TOTAL                51.4    58.0    70.1    80.7    90.2    98.8   107.8   118.0
REVENUE/KWH SOLD
INDUSTRIAL FBU/KWH       8.200   8.200   8.200   8.200  11.400  15.700  17.300  19.100
DOMESTIC FBU/KWH          7.600   7.600   7.600  10.200  13.400  17.700  19.300  21.100
AVE REV/KWH SOLD         7.918   7.922   7.941   9.027  12.204  16.509  18.116  19.925
OPERATING REVENUES
INDUSTRIAL & COMM        224.0   254.7   328.0   388.0   615.0   923.2  1103.8  1323.4
DOMESTIC                 183.4   204.5   228.8   340.6   486.0   707.4  848.4  1026.8
METERS                      1.7     2.1     2.6      3.2     3.8     4.6     5.5      6.6
CONNECTION WORKS          81.0    98.8   120.6   147.1   176.5   211.8   254.2   305.0
TOTAL SALES REV       490.1   560.2   680.0  878.9  1281.3  1847.0  2211.9  2661.8
OPERATING EXPENSES
SALARIES                  78.8    89.0   100.6   113.6   126.1   153.9   169.3   186.2
PURCHASED ENERGY          80.6    80.8   134.1   205.2  293.4   469.5   647.9   220.3
MATERIALS                 127.5  145.4   165.7   188.9   211.6   237.0  265.4   297.3
ADMINISTRATION             12.2    13.8    15.5    17.4    19.3    21.7    23.8    26.2
DEPRECIATION              120.4   170.6   191.6   223.9   251.2   301.3   408.6  629.1
TOTAL                 419.6   499.6  607.5  749.1  901.7  1183.4  1515.1  1359.1
OPERATING INCOME          70.5    60.6    72.5   129.8  379.6   663.6   696.8  1302.7
INT CHARGED OP              1.2     0.9     5.4    10.2    33.7    63.7    61.2   418.5
NET INCOME                 69.3    59.7    67.1   119.6   345.9   599.9   635.6   884.2
RATE OF RETURN              2.8     1.6     1.8      2.8     7.5    10.9     8.1      9.1
OPERATING RATIO %          85.6    89.2    89.3    85.2    70.4    64.1    68.5    51.1
DEPREC/GROSS PLANT         3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50    3.50
APPLICATION OF NET
INCOME
-DIVIDENDS                 0.0    26.0    84.0    99.0    55.0    20.0    20.0        0.0
-RETAINED EARNINGS         69.3    33.7   -16.9    20.6   290.9   579.9   615.6   884.2



- 88 -
ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 4
REGIDESO POWER
Funds Flow Statements 1982-1989
(FBu Millions)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
SOURCES OF FUNDS
GENERATED FROM
OPERATIONS
NET OPERAT INCOME         70.5    60.6    72.5   129.8   379.6   663.6   696.8  1302.7
DEPRECIATION             120.4   170.6   191.6   223.9   251.2   301.3   408.6   629.1
TOTAL                  190.9   231.2   264.1   353.7   630.8   964.9  1105.4  1931.8
INVESTMENTS                0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    44.0    60.0
CONSUMERS CONTRIB           3.7     4.6      5.6     6.8     8.2      9.8    11.8    14.1
EQUITY (NOTE 1)           156.0   400.0   350.0   300.0   274.0   130.0   112.0        0.0
LOANS (NOTE 2)            495.7  1348.9  1444.8  2058.8  1338.9  1277.8  1363.8    83.5
TOTAL SOURCES             846.3  1984.7  2064.5  2719.3  2251.9  2382.5  2637.0  2089.4
APPLICATIONS
OF FUNDS
CAPITAL EXPENDI-
TURES (NOTE 3)           778.0  1920.0  1960.8  2591.8  2011.4  2117.8  2345.8  1173.5
DEBT SERVICE
REPAYMENTS                16.0    16.1      7.7    15.5    59.2   109.1   109.1   415.0
INTEREST                  36.8    39.8    39.2    38.5    54.7    70.8    74.1   425.7
TOTAL                   52.8    55.9    46.9    54.0   113.9   179.9   183.2   840.7
DIVIDENDS                  0.0    26.0    84.0    99.0    55.0    20.0    20.0        0.0
INVESTMENTS               16.6    60.0    68.0    76.0    83.0    89.0       0.0     0.0
OTHER                    -41.6   -93.0  -112.0  -133.0  -159.0  -190.0   -67.0   -62.0
TOTAL                  -25.0    -7.0    40.0    42.0   -21.0   -81.0   -47.0   -62.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS        805.8  1968.9  2047.7  2687.8  2104.3  2216.7  2482.0  1952.2



- 89 -                        ANNEX 23
Page 3 of 4
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
NOTE 1: EQUITY
MUGERE GRANT                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
KFW RWEGURA GRANT           0.0   400.0   250.0   250.0   250.0   130.0   112.0       0.0
GVT RWEGURA GRANT         156.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
GVT RUZIZI II GRAN         0.0      0.0   100.0    50.0    24.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
OTHER ELEC GRANTS           0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
TOTAL                 156.0  400.0   350.0   300.0   274.0   130.0   112.0        0.0
NOTE 2: LOANS
CAISSE CEN NYANZA         186.0   349.0    58.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
CAISSE CEN RWEGURA         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   250.0   600.0   530.0       0.0
AFDB RWEGURA                0.0   350.0   226.0   250.0   218.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
FED RWEGURA                 0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    62.0   270.0   372.0      0.0
KOWEIT F.RWEGURA            0.0   450.0   450.0   500.0   220.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
IDA RUZIZI II              0.0      0.0   200.0   450.0    89.5      0.0     0.0      0.0
UNIDENT RUZIZI II           0.0     0.0   300.0   600.0   144.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
KFW ELEC CREDITS         296.1    41.5      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
OPEC F.RWEGURA             0.0   100.0    74.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
IDC LOAN                  13.6    58.4   136.8   258.8   355.4   407.8   461.8    83.5
TOTAL                 495.7  1348.9  1444.8  2058.8  1338.9  1277.8  1363.8    83.5
NOTE 3: CAPITAL
EXPENDITURES
MUGERE                   100.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
RWEGURA                  156.0  1300.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1014.0        0.0
MUYINGA                   216.3    47.6     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
KIRUNDO                   106.1    25.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
NYANZA                    186.0   349.0    58.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
COMPLEM RUZIZI II          0.0      0.0   696.0  1253.0   296.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
IDC CAPITALIZ              13.6    58.4   136.8   258.8   355.4   407.8   461.8    83.5
OTHER ELEC                 0.0   140.0    70.0    80.0   360.0   710.0   870.0  1090.0
TOTAL                 778.0  1920.0  1960.8  2591.8  2011.4  2117.8  2345.8  1173.5
NOTE 4: NET AVAI-
LABLE FROM OPERAT
GENER FROM OPERAT        190.9   231.2   264.1   353.7   630.8   964.9  1105.4  1931.8
+DISPOSED ASSETS            0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    44.0    60.0
+CONSUMERS CONTRIB          3.7     4.6     5.6      6.8     8.2     9.8    11.8    14.1
+INCR IN CASH            -38.9      6.8    -5.6    -4.9    69.7      7.6    44.8      3.4
-DEBT SERVICE            -52.8   -55.9   -46.9   -54.0  -113.9  -179.9  -183.2  -840.7
-INCR WKG CAPITAL        -40.5   -15.8   -16.8  -31.5  -147.6  -165.8  -155.0  -137.2
-OTHER APPLICAT           41.6    93.0   112.0   133.0   159.0   190.0    67.0    62.0
TOTAL                 104.0   263.9   312.4   403.1   606.2   826.6   934.8  1093.4



- 90 -
ANNEX 23
page 4 of 4
REGIDESO POWER
Balance Sheets 1982-1989
(FBu Millions)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION       4672.6  5076.4  5872.1  6920.1  7435.3  9781.4 13568.3 22382.4
LESS: DEPRECIATION       1052.4  1307.2  1596.8  1932.5  2299.6  2738.9  3311.8  4139.6
NET PLANT                3620.2  3769.2  4275.3  4987.6  5135.7  7042.5 10256.5 18242.8
WORK IN PROGRESS          791.1  2720.0  4299.6  6282.7  8215.1  8440.0  7598.7   779.4
L/T INVESTMENTS           290.0   350.0   418.0   494.0   577.0   666.0   622.0   562.0
CURRENT ASSETS
-CASH & BANKS              85.5    92.3    86.7    81.8   151.5   159.1   203.9   207.3
-ACCOUNTS REC             161.7   140.0   170.0   219.7   320.3   461.7   553.0   665.4
-INVENTORIES              223.2   232.6   232.0   226.7   211.6   237.0   2C65.4  297.7
-OTHER I                   13.1    14.7    16.4    18.4    20.3    22.3    24.5    27.0
TOTAL                  483.5   479.6   505.1   546.6   703.7   880.1  1046.8  1197.0
l'OTAL                5184.8  7318.8  9498.0 12310.9 14631.5 17028.6 19524.0 20781.2
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
-CAPITAL                  185.1   185.1   185.1   185.1   185.1   185.1   185.1   185.1
-RETAINED EARNINGS         37.4    71.1    54.2    74.8   365.7   945.6  1561.2  2445.4
-GRANTS                  2757.3  3157.3  3507.3  3807.3  4081.3  4211.3  4323.3  4323.3
-CAPITAL RESERVE          290.7   290.7   290.7   290.7   290.7   290.7   290.7   290.7
-REVALUATION RESER        642.3   931.9  1214.6  1513.8  1813.1  2121.2  2543.8  3159.2
TOTAL                3912.8  4636.1  5251.9  5871.7  6735.9  7753.9  8904.1 10403.7
LONG TERM DEBT           1116.8  2449.6  3886.7  5930.1  7209.7  8378.4  9633.0  9301.6
CUR'NT LIABILITIES
-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE          31.9    29.1    33.1    37.8    42.3    47.4    53.1    59.5
-OTHER                     56.5    39.6    44.3    49.6    54.6    60.1    66.1    72.7
TOTAL                   88.4    68.7    77.4    87.4    96.9   107.5   119.2   132.2
CONSUMER CONTRIBUT         25.2    29.8    35.4    42.2    50.4    60.2    72.0    86.1
OTHER LIABILITIES          41.6   134.6   246.6   379.5   538.6   728.6   795.7   857.6
TOTAL                 5184.8  7318.8  9498.0 12310.9 14631.5 17028.6 19524.0 20781.2
DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY         22.2    34.6    42.5    50.2    51.7    51.9    52.0    47.2
CURRENT RATIO               5.5      7.0     6.5      6.3     7.3      8.2     8.8      9.1
RECEIVABLES/REV %          33.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
ANNUAL REVALUATION          8.0      8.0     7.5      7.0     6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0



-91 -
ANNEX 24
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
ELECTROGAZ
Income Statements 1982-1988
(FRw Millions)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Sales in GWh                    69      74.4    80.5    88.4   101.8   110.6   120.6
Average Tariff FRw/kWh          10.9    10.9    13        15.5    15.5    16        20
Water Revenue                  253      302.    362      544     718    1075    1262
Gas Revenue                     43      43       43       54      59       74      74
Electricity Revenue            752     811    1046    1370    1578    1770    2412
Other Revenue                   43      46       51       57      64       71      79
TOTAL REVENUES              1091    1202    1502    2025    2419    2990    3827
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                       249     285      328      373     423      478     543
Purchased energy                20      40       75      130     130      220     350
Materials                      194     243      305      382     477      596     734
Administration                  94      110     127      147     170      194     222
Depreciation                   503     560      622      725     817    1088    1370
TOTAL EXPENSES              1060    1238    1457    1757    2017    2576    3219
OPERATING INCOME                31     -36       45      268     402      414     608
Interest charged Op           66      74       94     112      187      259     588
NET INCOME                     -35    -110      -49      156     215      155       20
Dividends                     -      28       84      99       55       20      20
RETAINED EARNINGS              -35    -138    -133        57     160      135        0
ACCUM.RETAINED EARNINGS   -318    -456    -589    -532    -372    -237    -237



- 92 -                        ANNEX 24
Page 2 of 3
ELECTROGAZ
Funds Flow Statements 1982-1988
(FRw Millions)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Sources of Funds
Generated from operation
Operating income              31     -36       45     268      402      414     608
Depreciation              503      560      622     725      817    1088    1370
Total                  534      524     667      993    1219    1502    1978
Equity
Complement. Ruzizi II       -        -       30      40       13       -        -
Other                     896      240        -       -      444     911       38
Total                  896      240       30      40      457     911       38
Borrowings
Complement. Ruzizi II        -       -      270     510       50        -       -
Other                     224      637    1437    2188    2402    1972    1020
Total                  224      637    1707    2698    2452    1972    1020
TOTAL SOURCES       1654    1401    2404    3731    4128    4385    3036
Applications of Funds
Capital expenditures
Water and gas                182     395      458    1148    1335    1236       700
Complement. Ruzizi II          -       -      350     635       68        -       -
Other electricity           889      563    1174    1471    1812    1361        618
IDC                            2      21       89     255      392     493      264
Total                 1073      979    2071    3509    3607    3090    1582
Debt Service
Repayment                     43      43       71      80       88      209     325
Interest                      66      74       94     112      187     259      588
Total                  109      117      165     192      275     468      913
Dividends                        -       28      84       99      55       20      20
TOTAL APPLICATIONS 1182    1124    2320    3800    3937    3578    2515
Increase in Working Capital
Cash                          -132     156      126    -168       44      -17      30
Other working capital          604     121      -42       99     147      824     491
Total                  472      277       84     -69      191     807      521
Accumulated cash               -112      44      170       2       46       29       59



- 93 -
ANNEX 24
Page 3 of 3
ELECTROGAZ
Balance Sheets 1982-1988
(FRw Millions)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                 14365   15989   17762   20706   23356   31214   39384
Less: Depreciation                1379    2066    2874    3849    4979    6455    8326
Operating Plant                  12986   13923   14888   16857   18377   24759   31058
Work in progress                   101      778    2515    4625    7267    4321          185
Current Assets
Cash                                 0       44      170        2       46       29       59
Inventories                        575      640      710      828      934    1502    1905
Receivables                        448      502      554      748      911    1226    1307
Total                       1023    1186    1434    1578    1891    2757    3271
Other Assets                        10       10       10       10       10       10      10
TOTAL ASSETS                   14120   15897   18847   23070   27545   31847   34524
EQUITY AND LIABLILITES
Equity
Paid in Capital                  11290   11530   11560   11600   12057   12968   13006
Retained Earnings                 -318    -456    -589    -532    -372    -237    -237
Revaluation Reserve                335    1530    2783    4078    5450    6884    8835
Total                      11307   12604   13754   15146   17135   19615   21604
Long Term Debt                    2350    2944    4580    7198    9562   11325   12020
Current Liabilities
Payables                           217      234      376      563      650     674      622
Other                              134      115      137      163      198     233      278
Bank Overdraft                     112        0        0        0        0        0       0
Total                        463      349      513      726      848      907      900
TOTAL EQUITY AND
LIABILITIES                   14120   15897   18847   23070   27545   31847   34524



- 94 -                           ANNEX 25
BURUNDI-RWANDA-ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
SNEL's BUKAVU-UVIRA-GOMA 1/ (KIVU) Financial Statements
(US$ million)
1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
I. INCOME STATEMENTS
Domestic Sales in GWh            24.5  27.1  30.2  39.9  45.5  50.6  58.5  63.0
Export Sales in GWh 2/           20    17    35    52    55    51    44    28
TOTAL SALES in GWh            44.5  44.1  65.2  91.9 100.5 101.6 102.5  91.0
Domestic Revenue USV/kWh sold  5         5.5   9.5  11    11    12    12    14
Export Revenue   USt/kWh sold  2.2   2.6   3.1   3.7   4.4   5.3   5.6   6.0
Average tariff-US+/kWh sold    3.7   4.4   6.1   6.9   7.4   8.6   9.2  11.5
Operating Revenues              1.66  1.93  3.95  6.31  7.42  8.78  9.48 10.5
Operating Expenses
Salaries                      0.31  0.33  0.36  0.47  0.50  0.53  0.56  0.60
Materials                      0.22  0.24  0.26  0.31  0.33  0.35  0.37  0.40
Administration                 0.65  0.70  0.75  0.86  0.91  0.96  1.02  1.08
Depreciation                   2.0   2.1   2.3   2.7   3.1   3.5   3.9   4.4
TOTAL                       3.18  3.37  3.67  4.34  4.84  5.34  5.85  6.48
Operating Income              -1.52 -1.44  0.28  1.97  2.58  3.44  3.63  4.02
Rate of Return (in 7)           -     -      0.5   2.9   3.4   4.1   4.0   4.1
II.FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
Sources of funds
generated from Operation
Operating Income              -1.52 -1.43  0.28  1.97  2.58  3.44  3.63  4.02
Depreciation                  2.0   2.1   2.3   2.7   3.1   3.5   3.9   4.2
TOTAL                       0.48  0.67  2.58  4.67  5.68  6.94  7.53  8.22
Yougoslav credit                -     4.5   4.5   -       -      -     -      -
Other credit                   -      -      0.5   1.5   1.5   -       -      -
Total credits                       4.5   5.0   1.5   1.5
TOTAL Sources               0.48  5.17  7.58  6.17  7.18  6.94  7.53  8.22
Application of Funds
Line Katana Goma                           5.0   5.0   -       -
Rehabilitation and extension
of Kivu network                          -      1.7   5.2   5.2
Dividends for financing Ruzizi II          0.3   1.0   1.1   0.7   0.2   0.2
Other Construction                         -     -      -      1.0   6      7     8.0
Total Application            -      5.30  7.70  6.30  6.9   6.2   7.2   8.0
Working Capital                     0.48 -0.13 -0.12 -0.13  0.28  0.74  0.33  0.22
Cumulated Working Capital             0.48  0.35  0.23  0.10  0.38  1.12  1.45  1.67
III. FIXED ASSETS
Gross Assets                  58    62.6  67.3  85.1  90.2 107.7 114.2 135.1
Minus Depreciation              2.0   4.3   6.9  10.1  13.8  18.1  23.1  28.9
NET Assets                 56    58.3  60.4  75.0  76.4  89.6  91.1 106.2
Works in Progress           -      5.0  11.7   6.9  13.1   7    14         8.0
1/  Goma is part of the interconnected system at the end of 1984.
2/ Export quantities are each year 31 GWh higher, but the latter correspond to
the repayment of a loan due by SNEL to Burundi.



ANNEX 26
Page 1 of 2
- 95 -
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Interconnected System Electricity Demand
Burundi Rwanda Zaire   Total  Total   System         Deficit       Installed  System
Sales  Demand  Capability  Surplus        Capacity   Peak
Actual  ----GWh                                                               -----MW-
1976        26      40      -        -      -         170           -            39.4
1977        30      44      -        -       -        170           -            39.4
1978        34      48      -        -      -         170           -            39.4       20
1979        36      53      -        -       -        170           -            39.4       22
1980        40      59     17      116     133        170          15.4          39.4       24
1981        44      64     19      127      146       218          91            51.4       26
Forecast
1982        50      69     25      144     165        228          63            59.4       29
1983        55      74     27      156     179        243          64            59.4       31
1984        66      81     30      177     204        243          39            59.4       36
1985        76      88     40      204     235        243           8            59.4       41
1986        85    102      46      233     268        266          -2            62.4       47
1987        93    111      51      255     293        406         113           103.7       51
1988       101    121      59      281     323        406          83           103.7       57
1989       109    131      63      303     348        470         122           103.7       61
1990       118    143      68      329     378        470          92           103.7       66
Notes:  1976-1980  Ruzizi I and Ntaruka  39 MW; 170 GWh annually.
1981       Mukungwa 12 MW; 48 GWh annually.
1982       Mugere 8 MW; 25 GWh annually.
1986       Gihira 2 MW and Gisenyi 1.1 MW; 3 MWh annually connected to grid.
1987       Ruzizi II 26.6 MW; and 140 GWh anually.
1989       Rwegura 18 MW; 64 GWh, annually.



- 96 -
ANNEX 26
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE                            page 2 of 2
RVZIZI 11 RROIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Energy-Forecast Demand and Available Supply
500
RWEGURA
40_
RUZIZI II
AVAILABLE- 
300 -                                 SUPPLY
& -                                s     /        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORECAST
2                         ~~~~~~~~~GIHIRA    
u                        ~~~~~~~~GISENYI  
... 200  -
01
1981    1982      1983     1984    1985_    1986      1987     1988     1989     1990
World Ban-k-24562



- 97 -                   ANNEX 27
Page 1 of 4
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Economic Comparison between the Ruzizi II and Rwegura Projects
Demand
1.          The mission's demand estimates for the regional interconnected
system expressed in gross GWh 1/ are as follows from 1986 to 1995:
(Gross GWh)   1986  1987  1988 1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Burundi          98   107   116  125   136   147   159   171   185   200
Rwanda          117   127   139  151   164   177   191   207   223   241
Zaire            53    59    68   72    78    85    93   101   110   120
Total Demand       268   293   323  348   378   409   443   479   518   561
In 1986, the total capability for the interconnected system would be 266
GWh, therefore there would be a deficit of about 2 GWh.
Capabilities
2.         The annual capability of Ruzizi II with three units would be 200
GWh, that of Rwegura would be 64 GWh.   Therefore,  if either plant were
commissioned alone in 1987, Ruzizi II's capacity would be fully utilized
during 1993 (with its third unit commissioned in 1991) and Rwegura's at the
beginning of 1989.
Financial rate of return of 10%
3.             Given the present  cost  estimates of Ruzizi II and Rwegura
--US$75.4 million and US$64.8 million in September 1982 prices 2/--and the
estimated demand above, the price at which electricity should be sold by
1/ 1 GWh = 1 million kWh. Gross GWh are produced GWh; they are 15% bigger
than sold GWh, because of transmission losses.
2/ The above cost of Rwegura has been confirmed when REGIDESO received the
bids on November 15, 1982.



-98 -                    ANNEX 27
Page 2 of 4
each operating plant alone, to obtain a 10% financial rate of return, would
be US46.4/kWh at Ruzizi II and US415.3/kWh at Rwegura, in September 1982 US
cents. Ruzizi II is clearly the lesser cost solution.
Demand Sensitivity
4.         Increased demand by 10% for 1986 and subsequent years would mean
fully utilized capacity during 1992 for Ruzizi II and in 1988 for Rwegura,
if  either  were  commissioned  alone.   Selling  prices  for Ruzizi  II and
Rwegura given above would be reduced with increased demand, but their ratio
would be about the same.   Ruzizi II would remain the lesser cost solution
and  should  therefore  be  built  first,  if  only  economic  factors  are
considered.   No argum.ent for simultaneous construction holds on economic
grounds.
Scenario Proposed for the Appraisal Report
5.           Given the obligation of the three national companies to make
minimal payments of electricity to SINELAC, the preference of REGIDESO for
Rwegura power and of ELECTROGAZ and SNEL for Ruzizi I power, and the
commissioning of Ruzizi II in 1987 and Rwegura in 1989, the bulk price of
Ruzizi II electricity enabling the facilities to obtain a 10% financial
rate of return would be US+7.3/KWh in 1982 prices, if the third unit is
commissioned in 1993 (Annexes 18, 19, 20).



- 99 -                 ANNEX 27
Page 3 of 4
Economic Price of Ruzizi II Electricity
(The cost amounts are in constant US$ September 1982 million)
Sales of
Ruzizi II
Construct.  Operating                      Total Cost        (GWh)
Years    Cost         Costs (1%) Cost of Renewal  Ruzizi II  (before losses)
1983        8.21         0.00           0.00            8.21           0
1984       24.14        0.00            0.00           24.14           0
1985       23.87         0.00           0.00           23.87           0
1986       13.63        0.00            0.00           13.63           0
1987        0.78        0.70            0.00            1.48          27
1988         0.78        0.70           0.00            1.48          57
1989         0.00        0.70           0.00            0.70          82
1990         0.00        0.70           0.00            0.70         112
1991         4.03       0.70            0.00            4.73         143
1992         0.00        0.75           0.00            0.75         177
1993-2005   0.00         0.75           0.00            0.75         200
2006         0.00        0.75           8.00            8.75         200
2007-2016   0.00         0.75           0.00            0.75         200
2017      -71.54         0.75           0.00          -29.25         200
Present Value
Total Cost             Total Sales
Discount Rate       of Ruzizi II           of Ruzizi II
10%           US$61.8 million            972.1 GWh
The economic price of electricity of Ruzizi II at a 10% financial rate of
return, in the absence of the Rwegura project (para. 2), would then be:
61.8 = USO6.4/kWh in September 1982 prices.
972.1



- 100 -
ANNEX 27
Page 4 of 4
Economic price of Rwegura electricity
(The cost amounts are in constant US$ December 1981 million)
Sales of
Constr.   Operating          Cost of   Total Cost  Rwegura (GWh)
Years       Cost      Costs              Renewal   Rwegura       (before losses)
1982          8.28       0.00              0.00         8.28          0
1983         19.70      0.00               0.00        19.70          0
1984         17.13      0.00               0.00        17.13          0
1985         12.48       0.00              0.00        12.48          0
1986          3.48      0.00               0.00         3.48          0
1987          0.00      0.61               0.00         0.61         27
1988          0.00       0.61              0.00         0.61         57
1989-2005    0.00       0.61               0.00         0.61         64
2006          0.00       0.61              6.00         6.61         64
2007-2016    0.00        0.61              0.00         0.61         64
2017       -25.00        0.61              0.00       -24.39         64
Present Value
Discount          Total Cost              Total Sales
Rate              of Rwegura              of Rwegura
10%             US$50.7 million         352.2 GWh
The economic price of Rwegura at a 10% financial rate of return would then
be:
50.7 = USt14.4/kWh in December 1981 prices and
352.2
14.4 x 1.06 = US415.3/kWh in September 1982 prices.



- 101 -
ANNEX 28
BURUNDI-RWANDA-ZAIRE
RUZIZI REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
(September 30, 1982 Prices)
Diesel Generating Station
Estimate of Cost
10 MW INSTALLATION
L        F        T
Item                 --US$ thousands
Civil Works               1,140       400   1,540
Generating Equipment        600    8,800   9,400
Electric Equipment            -       300     300
Fuel Storage                 40       360     400
Engineering                  60       770     830
Subtotal                 1,840   10,630  12,470
Physical Contingencies      260    1,570   1,830
TOTAL                    2,100   12,200  14,300
Note: Interest during construction, escalation, and taxes are not included.



- 102 -
ANNEX 29
BURUNDI - RIANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECIRIC POWER PROJECT
Least Cost Solution
(US$ million)
THE PRaJECr                                 ALTERNATIVE
Diesel                  Rusumn Falls
Capital Operatirg    Total         Capital Operating Fuel       Capital Operating Total
Years          Cost    Cost                       Cost    Cost      Cost       Cost   Cost
1983             8.21     -          8.21
1984           24.14    -          24.14           -         -       -          -         -       -
1985            23.87    -         23.87            1.0      -      -            -        -       1.00
1986           13.63     -         13.63            6.0      0.1     0.5        10.0      -      16.60
1987            0.78    0.7         1.48           6.0       0.2     6.8        35.0      -      48.00
1988            0.78     0.7        1.48            2.0     0.3    14.3         60.0      -      76.60
1989            -        0.7        0.70           -        0.3    4.5          45.0      -      49.80
1990            -        0.7         0.70          -         0.3    12.0        10.0      -      22.30
1991            5.0      0.7        5.70           -8.0      -       -           -        1.6   -6.60
1992           15.0      0.7       15.70           -        -       -           -         1.6     1.60
1993           25.0      0.7       25.70           -         -       -           -        1.6     1.60
1994           25.0      0.75      25.75           -        -       -            -        1.6     1.60
1995            15.0     0.75       15.75           -        -       -           -        1.6     1.60
1996            -        1.45        1.45          -        -       -            -        1.6     1.60
1997-2005       -         1.45       1.45           -        -       -           -        1.6     1.60
2006            -        9.45        9.45           -        -       -           -       16.0   16.00
2007-2014       -         1.45       1.45           -        -       -           -        1.6     1.60
2015            -         9.45       9.45           -        -       -           -        1.6     1.60
2016-2026        -        1.45       1.45           -        -       -           -        1.6     1.60
2027          -50.0      -          50.00           -        -       -         -50.0      -     -50.00
Assumptions:
Costs based on September 1982 prices;
Fuel cost for diesel, US$250,000 per GWh;
10 MW diesel plant output (MW) 1986 - 2; 1987 -27; 1988- 57; 1989 - 18
1990 - 48
Rwegura Hydroelectric Station in operation: 1989 - onwards;
Life of project: 40 years;
The third 13.5 MW unit installed in the project in 1993 and a second 40 MW plant
to be commissioned in 1995 to raise project output to 80 MW - the same
as 80 MW Rusumo Falls;
IDC, escalation and taxes not included;
Salvage value hydro projects: US$50 million;
Salvage value diesel plant:   US$ 8 million.
The equalizing discount rate is 35%.



- 103 -
ANNEX 30
page 1 of 4
BURUND I-RWANDA- ZAIRE
RUZIZI REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return for the Proposed Project
1.            We assume that the spread between the US48.4/kWh SINELAC's
average bulk tariff and the average retail tariff in the region is USO3/kWh
and we wish to determine (i) the financial rate of return for the proposed
project  and  the  next  one  for  rehabilitation  and  extension  of  the
interconnected network, without taking benefits into account, and (ii) the
economic rate of return with taking benefits into account.   We then make
the two following assumptions:
A. The next project involving rehabilitation and extension of the
electricity networks of the three countries would be completed in
1987 at the time the Ruzizi II facilities are commissioned, with
the following construction costs (in US$million):
1984        1985        1986         Total
Burundi                8.0          14.4         3.4          25.8
Rwanda                 4.0           7.3         0.8          12.1
Zaire (Kivu)           1.7          5.2         5.2           12.1
Total              13.7         26.9         9.4          50.0
Total in
1982 prices         11.8         21.7         7.1          40.6
B. The consumers in the region whose consumption represents about
15% of the total demand from Ruzizi II would be ready in case the
Ruzizi II project were not built, to buy their electricity from a
diesel-fueled generating station, at a cost of at least USJ25/kWh
(Annex 26). Either these consumers would have an urgent need for
electricity (hospital, water pumping, Government agencies) or
their demand is very inelastic (industries for which electricity
is a small part of their cost and which can pass the increase in
electricity cost to their customers, expatriates whose living
expenses are paid for, etc.).   The demand curve for the region
could be drawn with two points (100% consumption at the average
tariff, and 15% at diesel cost), and a consumers' surplus could
be calculated that would increase the benefits of the project:



- 104 -                      ANNEX 30
page 2 of 4
Price of
elec-
tricity
Diesel   e _   
cost D
Demand curve
Tariff                                         |
T      b                        -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Ig                                         jc
I                                          1
a                                                  d
0.15Q Quantity which           Q Quantity sold by       quantity
some consumers are           Ruzizi II in one            of
willing to buy at            year at tariff T       electricity
diesel cost D



- 105 -                        ANNEX 30
page 3 of 4
The revenue of the sale of Ruzizi II electricity is represented
by the area abcd, the value of which is TxQ.   The theoretical
surplus of consumers ready to buy electricity up to the diesel
cost D is represented by the area above the tariff line limited
by the demand curve:   ebcf.   To simplify the calculation, we
assume that the fc curve is a straight line, thus the value of
the  consumers'  surplus  is:    0.15(D-T)Q  +  i  0.85(D-T)Q
0.575(D-T)Q.
2.         With construction expenditures C and revenues TQ and the above
consumers' surplus, the discount rate is the rate at which there is
equilibrium between C and TQ + 0.575(D-T)Q = (0.425T + 0.575D)Q. With D =
USF25/kWh and T = UStl1.4/kWh (8.4 + 3), the equilibrium must be found
between discounted C and discounted 0.1922Q,- both in millions of dollars.



- 106 -
ANNEX 30
page 4 of 4
Numerical values are given by the following table (costs are in US$ million):
Construction
cost of com-                       Total         Sales of
Construction   plementary         Opera-            Costs of   Ruzizi II
cost of      works in the       ting   Cost of  the two         (Gwh)
Years   Ruzizi II       three countries  costs  Renewal  projects (before losses
1983        8.21               0.00           0.00    0.00       8.21        0.00
1984       24.14              11.80           0.00    0.00    35.94          0.00
1985       23.87              21.70           0.00    0.00    45.57          0.00
1986       13.63               7.10           0.00    0.00    20.73          0.00
1987        0.78               0.00           1.10    0.00       1.88       23.00
1988        0.78               0.00           1.10    0.00       1.88       50.00
1989         0.00              0.00           1.10    0.00       1.10       16.00
1990        0.00               0.00           1.10    0.00       1.10       42.00
1991         0.00              0.00           1.10    0.00       1.10       69.00
1992         0.00              0.00           1.10    0.00       1.10       98.00
1993        4.03               0.00           1.10    0.00       5.13      130.00
1994        0.00               0.00           1.15    0.00       1.15      163.00
1995-2005   0.00               0.00           1.15    0.00       1.15      174.00
2006        0.00               0.00           1.15   12.00    13.15        174.00
2007-2016   0.00               0.00           1.15    0.00       1.15      174.00
2017      -30.00             -12.00           1.15    0.00   -40.85        174.00
3.             The financial rate of return of an average  retail tariff of
US+11.4/kWh (8.4 + 3) would be: 8.9%.
4.            The economic rate of return of the same average retail tariff,
taking into account the consumers' surplus would be: 13.4%.



- 107 -
ANNEX 31
page 1 of 1
BURUNDI - RWANDA - ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
Sales of Ruzizi II with an annual rate of growth of 10% in regional demand until 1990
This annex shows the sales of Ruzizi II facilities if the annual rate of growth in
regional demand from 1981 to 1990 is reduced from 11.1% to 10%. The annual rate of growth
thereafter would remain at about 8.3%.
Production of
Production of    Ruzizi II
Ruzizi II         with no purchase
Present                                          with purchases   if cheaper power
Regional                        Surplus from    matching           from Rwegura or
Demand                         Capability       minimum           Ruzizi II is
in GWh    (Annex 19)   Reduced Demand    (Annex 19)          payment           consumed
1987         293               259               147             18                  0
1988         323               285               121             18                 19
i989         348               313               157             17                  0
1990         378               344               126             17                 14
1991         409               373                97             43                 43
1992         443               403                67             73                 73
1993         479               437                33            107                107
1994         518              473                 57            143                143
1995         561               513                17            183                183
1996          608              556               neg.           200                200



- 108 -
ANNEX 32
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI-RWANDA- ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Report File
Sector
Planification  a  long  terme  des  besoins  d'energie  electrique  et
l1'ch6ancier des ouvrages  de production  (Burundi).   United Nations,
April 1982.
Rapport preliminaire concernant la mission de Georges Vandanescu -
consultant des Nations Unies au Burundi. February, 1982.
Hydro Power Potential of Burundi. Siemens, 1978.
Factibilite d'une centrale hydro-electrique de Rwegura sur la Kitenge,
Siemens, May, 1979.
Organisation pour l'amenagement et le developpement du bassin de la
riviare Kagera. WHO, May, 1980.
Etude du secteur energetique au Rwanda - Plan directeur
d'6lectrification - Rapport definitif, premiere etape - Bureau national
d'6tudes de projets, BUNEP, Kigali, Rwanda; Ecole polytechnique
federale EPFL, Lausanne, Suisse; November, 1981.
Project
Projet  definitif  d'une  deuxiame  centrale  hydroelectrique  sur  le
Ruzizi.   Rapport final, Tractionel, February, 1981.
Dossier d'estimation des coats du projet de construction de 1'amenage-
ment hydroelectrique Ruzizi II, Lahmeyer International, October 1982.
Rapport de verification de la conception du projet l'amenagement hydro-
electrique Ruzizi II, Lahmeyer International, January 1983.
Legal
Convention portant creation de la socifte internationale d'electricite
des pays des Grands Lacs (SINELAC), Tractionel, Brussels, April, 1983.
Statuts de la socifte internationale d'6lectricite des pays des grands
lacs (SINELAC), Tractionel, Brussels, April, 1983.



- 109 -                         ANNEX 32
Page 2 of 2
Legal (contd.)
Agreements between the three Governments
Financial
Raglement Financier of CEPGL, dated September 9, 1977.
Arrangement Monetaire between the three Central Banks, dated June 7,
1978.
Freedom of Movement
Commercial and Customs Cooperation Agreement, September 10, 1978.
Labor
Statuts of community personnel, dated September 9, 1977.  This sets
out  detailed  provisions  on  recruitment,  nomination,  promotion;
responsibilities, privileges, immunities; remuneration; holidays and
travel expenses, disciplinary measures, termination of services and
a model employment contract.
Convention on socal security, dated September 10, 1978.
Administrative arrangements for social security.
Selected Working Papers
Financial statements and projected accounts for REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ
and SNEL.



-



r   UGANDA   e                                                      30                                                                  3jo
K-rnp:>,                    KEN Y A                                                                BURUNDI-RWANDA-ZAIRE
_- (No-cb z/9Zabe;                                                                   RUZIZI II REGIONAL  HYDROELECTRIC
U G:ZWY.;i N D  ;POWER PROJECT
U G A N DA A
T   A N Z A N I A                                '  _o                                                                                                ft
k\                               Oar- Ps- Sc arrcm             /   X          )        y      3J  t-  
-^e nosrici                                Rehefrie r        4<               -  Mind r >  7  
37
bi8Jt01he F:/1D ' 1 cO        'i         Ban ira<                                           /     t              %       
flsNaa"O         /S7 /~lA                  r    i      >\W-uL  -t AVrs     N>        J               KD               A) 1/
1t~~~~~ (SW.] ~bX                              \3oye  ,i   (  i ar r ia, . /
70/ A502-fC                                    '1           --'Cb,,---                                ,            --/Far// 
11,, ~   ~          ~         ~           
/ -  i  2  X  :l 0 ik mbr + l_ jf .Ft-t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                      /
35 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~3K
W. 0 h-~~1JS4*>1IBAJ   30 /'' sisee/
5Z2-Vr~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~5s  Pro nc Trns 0501y .Ceog t   .                        /         Bh
umns9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    irca  Po/ieets2X/r Plon   04( 
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  (V Trnmiso iCceC4^ KV_ 
_   f ! T ffi  -   }      5  BukSrosoz|    t  , (  ( (           f ~ ~ ~ ~                                  30S Kydrc Poe Plccn ics
I Mw         R            w                              No           D _AS r~44   |     z0         -io            ransmissio 1S a s eL
1ta=X3nf  1 : C 05   0; ja   S   wxJ                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Roods
L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ .nensoa BoundarJhLOETRS2ies7                                                        zC
2'                                                /j-r Kioao     301'                                                              ri



