Document of
The World Bank                                  FILE UO    .
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3557-EA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THREE PROPOSED CREDITS
EACH IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 13.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI, RWANDESE REPUBLIC, AND-REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
May 5, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Burundi Franc (FBu)       Rwanda Franc (FRw)       Zaire (Z)
FBu 1 -   US$0.01         FRw 1  -  US$0.01        Z 1   -  US$0.17
US$1  -   FBu 87          US$1   -  FRw 87         US$1  -  Z 5.9
Measurements
GWh        gigawatt hour                   1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kV         kilovolt                        1,000 volts
kW         kilowatt                        1,999 watts
kWh        kilowatt hours                  1,000 watt hours
MWh        megawatt hour                   1,000 kilowatt hours
MW         megawatt                        1,000 kilowatts
toe        ton of oil equivalent           10,500,000 kilocalories
ton        metric ton                      1.1 US tons
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BDEGL         Banque de developpement des Etats des grands lacs
BEI           Banque europeenne d'investissement
CCCE          Caisse centrale de cooperation economique
CEPGL         Communaute gconomique des pays des grands lacs
EGL           Energie des .pays des grands lacs
ELECTROGAZ    Etablissement public de production, de transport et de
distribution d'eau, d'electricit6 et de gaz (Rwanda)
FED           Fonds europeen de dEveloppement
FAC           Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
REGIDESO      Regie de distribution d'eau et d'electricite (Burundi)
SINELAC       Societe internationale d'electricite des pays des
grands lacs
SNEL          Socigtg nationale d'electricite (Zaire)
SOFIDE        Societe financiare de dgveloppement gconomique (Zaire)
Financial Year = Calendar Year
REGIDESO (Burundi),  ELECTROGAZ (Rwanda),  and SNEL (Zaire)
SINELAC



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI, RWANDA, ZAIRE
RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
SUMMARY OF CREDITS AND PROJECT
Borrowers:               Republic of Burundi, Rwandese Republic, Republic of
Zaire.
Beneficiary:             Societe internationale d'electricite des pays des
grands lacs (SINELAC)
Amount:                  Three credits of SDR 13.8 million each (US$15 million
equivalent each).
Terms:                   Standard.
Co-lenders:              European Development Fund (US$20.5 million equival-
ent); Italy (US$8.5 million equivalent), BDEGL
(US$1.9 million equivalent).
Relending Terms:         The IDA Credits would be on-lent to SINELAC at an in-
terest rate of 10.97 percent; the loans would mature
in 25 years with an eight year grace period. The FED
loan would be lent at one percent per annum for 40
years, with a ten year grace period. The Italian
funds would be passed on to SINELAC as a grant. The
BDEGL loan would be at a rate of 7.5 percent per
annum for 13 years, including a three year grace
period.
Project Description:    The proposed project would expand the supply of elec-
tricity to the interconnected system serving Burundi,
Rwanda and Zaire in order to sustain the economic
growth of their industrial, commercial and domestic
sectors. The project would construct hydroelectric
generating facilities including a dam, powerhouse,
switching station and transmission line. Experts'
services would be provided for periodic review of dam
design, to supervise construction, to initially
operate and maintain the facility and to provide
practical training for managerial and technical
staff. In addition, a study of training needs will
be undertaken, including the feasibility of a
regional training center.
The main risks of the project are institutional and
relate to the ability of the newly created company,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- (ii) -
SINELAC to carry out its functions. The first ele-
ment of risk concerns the ability of the three
Governments to cooperate within the framework of a
regional project. This problem is relatively limited
given the past cooperation in the use of electricity
in the region and the recognition of the three
Governments of their common interest in energy
development.  The second element of institutional
risk relates to SINELAC's ability to execute the
project given the relative inexperience of the
company. These risks have been reduced by provision
of consultants' services to assist SINELAC with
construction and operation of the facility, and the
periodic review of design and construction procedures
by a panel of experts. An additional risk is that
the anticipated rate of growth in the demand for
electricity would not be realized, making the project
premature. This risk is minimal since the load
forecasts for each of the countries are
.conservative; moreover, new transmission and
distribution works will be carried out in conjunction
with the proposed project and should lead to demand
increases well in line with the forecasts.
Estimated Costs:         Project costs, net of taxes 1/, are detailed in the
table below:
…-----US$ thousands-------
Local     Foreign      Total
Civil Works                                 5,000      31,300    36,300
Hydraulic Equipment                           200        2,800     3,000
Turbines                                      200        4,700     4,900
Generators                                    200        4,200     4,400
Powerhouse                                    200        2,000     2,200
Switching Station & Transmission Line         700       2,900      3,600
Roads & Housing                               500          900      1,400
Final Design & Construction Supervision    500           3,500     4,000
Technical Assistance                        2,100       3,000      5,100
Base Cost                                9,600       55,300    64,900
Contingencies:   - Physical                 1,000       6,800      7,800
- Price                  1,600       10,600    12,200
Total Project Cost                       12,200      72,700    84,900
Interest During Construction              46,000             -    46,000
Total Financing Required                58,200       72,700   130,900
/ Duties and taxes would not be levied on the Project.



- (iii) -
Financing Plan:
…--------   US$ millions------
Local      Foreign        Total       %
IDA                                -           45.0         45.0       53
BDEGL                              0.7           1.2          1.9       2
FED                                 2.1         18.4         20.5      24
Italy                              0.4           8.1          8.5       9
Burundi                            3.0          -             3.0       4
Rwanda                             3.0           -            3.0       4
Zaire                              3.0          -             3.0       4
Project Construction Finan-
cing Requirements              12.2          72.7         84.9      100
Capitalized Interest During
Construction (SINELAC)         46.0           -           46.0
Total Financing Requirements   58.2            72.7        130.9
Estimated Disbursements:
--------------------US$ millions-------------------
IDA FY      FY1984   FY1985   FY1986   FY1987   FY1988   FY1989
Annual            11.0      19.0      11.0       3.2      0.4       0.4
Cumulative        11.0      30.0      41.0     44.2      44.6      45.0
Rate of Return:'   9 percent.  The economic rate of return was computed
at the distribution level, taking into account the
cost of necessary complementary works for
transmission and distribution.  (The rate of return
would be 10 percent if based on average bulk tariffs
and on the cost of hydro facilities). This economic
rate of return does not take into account the
economic benefits deriving from the availability of
hydropower rather than higher cost diesel-generated
power that some consumers would be ready to buy.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4303-EAF, dated May 3, 1983
Map:  IBRD 15919






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THREE PROPOSED CREDITS TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI,
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC AND
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE RUZIZI II REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on three proposed
development credits to the Republic of Burundi, the Rwandese Republic and the
Republic of Zaire, each in the amount of SDR 13.8 million equivalent (US$15.0
million each) on standard IDA terms to finance the Ruzizi II Regional Hydro-
electric Power Project. For purposes of the project, the European Develop-
ment Fund has agreed to provide US$20.5 million equivalent; the Government of
Italy has agreed to provide US$8.5 million equivalent and the Development
Bank of the Great Lakes Region (BDEGL) has agreed to provide US$1.9 million
equivalent. The IDA Credits would be on-lent to the international company
created to execute the project, SINELAC, for 25 years with 8 years grace at
an interest rate of 10.97 per cent. The terms of cofinanciers' loans and
their on-lending rates are given in paragraph 67.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
The Countries and the Region
2.        Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire sometimes refer to themselves as the
"countries of the Great Lakes" and on that basis have created the Great Lakes
Economic Community (Communautg economique des pays des Grands Lacs - CEPGL).
Prima facie, there are striking disparities between Zaire and its two eastern
neighbors in terms of size, recent economic developments and economic poli-
cies, as well as geographical features. However, the countries of the Great
Lakes also have a lot in common. They suffer from serious poverty as indi-
cated by the low level of per capita income: $239 for Rwanda, 235 for
Burundi and $220 for Zaire in 1980; they share physical, demographic and
structural features, and face similar economic and financial difficulties.
All three countries are also heavily dependent on concessional aid flows to
finance foreign capital requirements. Similarities are even stronger when
one considers the Great Lakes Region, defined as comprising Burundi, Rwanda
and the eastern part of the Kivu province of Zaire. The following sections:
(i) discuss the characteristics, issues and constraints of the Great Lakes
Region, as defined above, and the community institutions; and (ii) outline
the major economic developments and issues faced by the three countries and
the actions undertaken or planned by the respective Governments (with data on
each country appearing in Annexes IA, IB and IC).



- 2 -
Regional Characteristics and Institutions
3.        The Great Lakes Region is a landlocked, densely populated area, co-
vering nearly 90,000 km2, whose essentially rural population has one of the
lowest per capita incomes in the world. In spite of local variations and
different national policies, the Region is rather homogeneous in geographi-
cal, demographic and economic terms. It is mountainous, with altitude miti-
gating the tropical climate, and benefits from abundant rainfall.  The land
is naturally fertile, that is when soil has not been eroded or depleted. The
population of about 12.5 million in 1982 s>are common dialects and tribal
origin owing to historical movements across common boundaries of the area.
Population grows at 2.5 to 3.5 percent per year and density averages 140
persons/km2, but reaches 300 persons/km3 on arable land. This very high
density has caused soil depletion and declining agricultural yields resulting
in migrations, principally to primary urban centers.
4.        The Region is predominantly rural.  Individual farms are usually
less than one hectare in size and support subsistence farming of foodcrops,
mainly pulses, bananas (principally used for beer production), tubers and
cereals. Declining soil fertility in the densely-populated areas and varying
soil conditions in the newly-settled areas, (often marginal lands because of
population pressure in Rwanda and Burundi) have led to declining yields in
some of the main crops. Cattle raising, traditionally a source of wealth and
prestige in the social structure, is also being gradually replaced by small
farm animals (pigs and chickens) because of declining pasture and grazing
land and the shortage of animal feed. With regard to cash crop production,
the Region is heavily dependent on coffee for foreign exchange earnings and
tax revenue. Although Rwanda has attempted to diversify its export mix with
tea, pyrethrum and cinchona, coffee still constitutes more than 60 percent of
merchandise exports and provides around 20 percent of total government
revenue. The Kivu province, which contributes about 15 percent of
agriculture value-added and produces on average 50 percent of Zaire's coffee,
is an area with high agricultural potential, but its cash crop mix is similar
to that of Rwanda.  Burundi is even more dependent n  coffee than Rwanda or
Kivu, with coffee representing about 90 percent of its average export
earnings during 1979-81. The overwhelming dependence on one crop has made
income in the Region very vulnerable to fluctuations in world coffee prices,
which directly affects the external trade balance of their respective
economies, tax revenues and coffee farmers' real income and incentives.
Moreover, domestic constraints such as transport bottlenecks, shortage of
essential agricultural inputs, and lack of agricultural credit aggravate
agricultural and marketing problems.
5.        The landlocked position of the Region (about 1500 km from the near-
est port) and a poor transport system have contributed to the scarcity and
high cost of inputs and complicated the marketing of both food and cash
crops. Internal transport is handled almost entirely by an inadequate road
network (2300 km paved and gravel roads in Rwanda, a total of 5500 km in
Burundi and 7500 km in the Kivu province) which crosses rugged terrain, is of
very low quality and features frequent and narrow curves, steep gradients and



-3-
uneven surfaces. Road construction and maintenance are consequently a costly
undertaking. Moreover, external links for the shipments of imports and ex-
ports are limited (mainly via Mombasa or Dar-es-Salaam) and frequently sub-
ject to political and economic risks, leading to delays, losses and burden-
some administrative and customs procedures. Lake transport is available on a
small scale but requires maintenance and repair of barges and berthing
facilities, which are in short supply. An expensive but increasingly used
alternative is air transport which, in Rwanda, now handles 20 percent of
external trade; in Kivu, vegetables and meat are the principal products
shipped by air from Goma.
6.        Commercial energy consumption, in the form of petroleum products
and electricity, represents less than 10 percent of total energy consumption
of the Region and is concentrated in the major urban areas or independent
entities, such as missions. (Per capita consumption of commercial energy is
about one-third of the average of developing countries of similar size and
income level.) Traditional energy sources, which account for the remaining
energy consumed, are non-commercial fuels - agricultural residues, fuelwood
and charcoal, used mainly for cooking. The dependence of rural households on
fuelwood as a main source of energy has led to serious problems of
deforestation and scarcity of fuelwood, particularly in densely-populated
areas. A major problem, notably in Kivu, has been the shortage of petroleum
products, often paralyzing the industrial and transport sectors; Kivu
traders and businessmen occasionally have to purchase petroleum products
across the border from Rwanda and Burundi.
7.         In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire established the Great
Lakes Community (CEPGL) in order to: (i) ensure security among the member
countries; (ii) promote free movement of persons and goods within the area;
and (iii) assure political and economic cooperation. The CEPGL is headed by
the Conference of Heads of State, complemented by the Council of Ministers,
composed of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the member states. The admi-
nistrative and operational staff represent the member countries and are
seconded from their respective government service_1, In addition to the bud-
getary support of the three member countries, the Community receives support
from external sources, principally Belgium and the United States. The Commu-
nity's most important organization is the Development Bank of the Great Lakes
Community (BDEGL) which was established in September 1977 to finance regional
development projects. The Bank's paid-in capital, of which Zaire provides 50
percent and Burundi and Rwanda 25 percent each, represents 51 percent of
authorized capital. The remaining 49 percent is to be subscribed by national
institutions in the member countries and international institutions. In
1978, the Community absorbed Energie des pays des grands lacs (EGL) which had
been formed by the three countries in 1974 primarily to investigate and pro-
mote means of expanding electrification of the Great Lakes Region. In recog-
nition of the variety of energy issues common to the Region, EGL's area of
responsibility was subsequently expanded to include all energy matters. The
newest regional institution is the Institut de recherche agronomique et zoo-
technique des pays des grands lacs (IRAZ), formed in July 1980, to carry out
agricultural research in areas of common interest to the member countries.
The institutions of the Community represent the first endeavor to achieve



-4-
regional integration and cooperation; however, they are still in their
infancy and, therefore, require financial and technical assistance from
external sources to carry out their activities and operations.
National Economic Developments and Issues
8.        An economic report on Rwanda was discussed with the Government in
December 1982 and February 1983, and will be issued shortly. The last
economic report on Burundi (Report No. 3071-BU) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1981. A Country Economic Memorandum on Zaire
(Report No. 4077-ZR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in January
1983. This section summarizes the essential points of each report to which
reference can be made for further details.
Burundi
9.        Of Burundi's population of about four million, only 100,000 are
wage earners with the remainder primarily dependent on subsistence agricul-
ture. The Government is facing several critical problems in its efforts to
develop the economy: the capability to prepare and manage programs and pro-
jects is weak; the agricultural labor force is largely untrained; and popula-
tion growth keeps straining Burundi's productive resources, particularly in
agriculture. Despite a stated policy of "spaced births", the problems of
population pressure cannot be solved in the immediate future. A major effort
must therefore be made to increase agricultural productivity. During the
past decade, per capita agricultural production has stagnated. The search
for mDre arable land has caused large-scale deforestation and severe shortage
of firewood in the rural areas, which makes the development of alternative
energy sources urgent.
10.       From the middle of the 1970's through 1981, the economy of Burundi
has experienced erratic growth resulting from fluctuations in the world mar-
ket price of coffee and the effects of weather on crop production; GDP
averaged a record 4.4 percent during the latter half of the 1970's, fell to
1.8 percent in 1980 and recovered, owing to a large increase in the volume of
exports, to grow at about 5 percent in real terms in 1981.  In spite of the
improved export situation, the balance of payments registered an overall
deficit in 1981 of about US$30 million owing mainly to increased imports, a
decline in net capital inflows, and a depreciation of the banking system's
foreign exchange holdings in terms of the US dollar. By the end of 1981,
Burundi's gross reserves had fallen to about US$60 million, equivalent to 3
months of imports of goods and non-factors services, and in 1982 they
declined further.
11.       Burundi recently completed a third Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan for the period 1978-82, aimed at increasing agricultural
production, accelerating economic growth and investments, and decentralizing
development activities. (A new five-year Plan for 1983-87 has been prepared
but has not yet been reviewed by the Bank.) Scarcity of land due to
population pressure is a very real problem in a number of provinces, where
farmers may be forced to shift from coffee cultivation to foodcrop



- 5 -
production. In order to promote integrated rural development, the Government
has established regional development companies to ensure appropriate
technology, village-level organizations, and decentralization of government
services. To this end, the Government has also launched a number of
integrated rural development projects, which are expected to benefit an
increasing number of small farmers. However, the implementation of these
projects has been hindered by limited knowledge of intensified cultural prac-
tices and of the willingness of small farmers to adopt them.
12.       Increasing the efficiency of the parastatal sector now constitutes
a major policy issue and is a top Government priority. Despite certain suc-
cesses, a number of parastatals have been affected by inadequate coordination
with the central Government, management problems, financial weaknesses and,
in the case of agricultural parastatals, lack of small farmer participation
due to insufficient incentives. With assistance from the Association, the
Government is assessing the situation of the parastatal sector with the
intention of trimming inefficient activities and providing strengthened
enterprises with the resources, autonomy and flexibility it requires to
achieve satisfactory economic and financial performance.
13.       Because of the unfavorable outlook for world coffee prices, the
medium-term prospects of the economy are not promising. The impact of any
decline in coffee prices would have to be absorbed by the small farmers
(through lower producer prices) and by the Government (through lower coffee
tax receipts). Even with a policy of demand restraint, it will be difficult
for Burundi to reduce its current account deficit to below 10 percent of
GDP. In light of this, Burundi's future external capital requirements are
likely to be much higher than in the recent past. Notwithstanding its
relatively low debt service ratio (5.6%), Burundi, because of its poverty and
instability of its export earnings, cannot afford to borrow on commercial
terms. External aid should therefore be on grant or any concessional terms
and should continue to include a substantial share of local cost financing.
More direct balance of payments support and/or assistance for essential
imports may also be needed in the medium term to assist the country through
this difficult period of adjustment.
Rwanda
14.       During the second half of the 1970s, Rwanda witnessed a period of
fairly rapid economic growth, which averaged 5 percent per annum. The
principal catalysts to growth were essentially external: favorable weather,
terms of trade and capital inflows. Combined, these factors also had
positive effects on the budget, balance of payments and investment rates.
Good weather conditions resulted in rapid agricultural growth of both food
and export crops, thereby alleviating the demand for food imports, while
increasing government revenues from export duties and foreign exchange
earnings. Favorable terms of trade (mainly due to a rise in coffee prices in
the late 70s) allowed exports to finance a larger volume of imports.
Increased capital inflows also facilitated the rapid growth of imports and
the consequent increase in tax revenues.



- 6 -
15.       Aside from favorable external factors, the Government's overall
economic management, and especially its strong commitment to economic deve-
lopment, deserves credit for the accelerated growth of the recent past.
Among the recent development-oriented actions taken by the Government are:
(i) an emphasis on developing physical infrastructure, especially transporta-
tion; (ii) a focus on the identification and implementation of agricultural
projects and programs oriented toward raising small-holder productivity;
(iii) raising coffee producer prices to the highest level in Africa; (iv)
the adoption of a comprehensive education reform, with the objective of
adapting the education and training system to the country's economic and
social development needs; (v) encouragement of communes as multi-purpose
instruments of rural development; and (vi) taking first steps toward
addressing the problems of high population growth.
16.       Rwanda has recently prepared a Third Development Plan for the
period 1982-86, whose priorities are an extension of the objectives of the
previous Plan, mainly: (i) self-sufficiency in food; (ii) productive
employment and practical education/training; (iii) improvement of living
standards through better health care and basic social services; and (iv)
improvement of external transportation links and commercial relations.
Although the Government had made serious efforts to pursue these objectives
in the past, structural, financial and institutional constraints have limited
the effects.
17.       Efforts to increase agricultural production have had modest
results, mainly because of the rapidly increasing population. The 1979
education reform has been hampered by financial and administrative
constraints and by the limited number of teachers. Employment has increased
significantly only in the public administration and construction sectors.
Despite a gradual increase in the number of health/nutrition centers and
hospital beds, health services in rural areas are still sparse and water
supply has tended to deteriorate in some rural areas. A rudimentary road
network continues to hamper agricultural specialization and monetization,
while reliance on transportation through neighboring countries leaves the
movement of trade in a precarious situation. Although, as noted earlier,
Rwanda has had some success in diversifying its exports, its vulnerability to
world market conditions still remains. Moreover, implementation of
development programs and projects has suffered from institutional weaknesses
stemming from lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation of institutional
responsibilities and poor coordination among agencies concerned with project
preparation and implementation.
18.       Economic management in recent years has been prudent as evidenced
by relative success in controlling inflation, maintaining a low debt service
ratio and avoiding projects of dubious economic justification. This pattern
has been facilitated by favorable terms of trade and substantial aid flows.
However, Rwanda's need for external assistance is likely to increase in the
next few years, as its fiscal and balance of payments prospects are less
favorable than in the past, principally as a result of depressed world prices
for its major exports (coffee, tea, cassiterite and wolfram). Agricultural



- 7 -
production, particularly of foodcrops, is not expected to increase
significantly in the short run, as it will take time to raise yields. Large
increases in mining production will only be possible if the financing for
currently planned investments materializes. Given the poverty of the country,
its overwhelming constraints and vulnerability, and its uncertain medium-term
prospects, external funds should continue to be provided in the form of grants
or loans at highly concessionary terms, and include a high proportion of local
cost financing and non-project assistance.
Zaire
19.       Since 1975, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic diffi-
culties which have brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
In many respects these difficulties are the result of developments which took
place in earlier years, principally: the progressive accentuation of the
country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by the relative
neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during 1973-74;
and the attempts to change drastically the ownership structure of the economy
through the zairianization and nationalization measures of 1973-74, which
have since been rescinded. Until 1979, notwithstanding three IMF-supported
stabilization programs and three debt rescheduling agreements under the Paris
Club, the budgetary deficit, inflation and external debt service remained
major problems. While the economic decline was arrested in the following
three years, many of the difficulties have continued.
20.       In 1980, GDP expanded by 2.4 percent, the current account balance
showed a small surplus, the inflation rate was halved to about 44 percent and
external public debt service payments nearly doubled. Moreover, the
Government was able to implement an IMF-supported stabilization program and
reach a debt rescheduling agreement under the Paris Club and another with
syndicated banks. The progress achieved in 1980 led to the formulation and
adoption in mid-1981 of a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an Extended Facility from the IMF. However, economic
performance during the year deteriorated because of internal and external
factors. Exports fell due to the weakening of the copper and cobalt markets;
imports decreased to thin lowest level since the beginning of the crisis; the
budgetary deficit expanded substantially leading to heavy government
borrowings. As a result, Zaire could not comply with the criteria under the
EFF and the program was cancelled in June 1982. During that year, the
budgetary deficit doubled from the 1981 level, the inflation rate stayed
around 40 percent and external public debt arrears reached a level of US$800
million at the end of the year.
21.       Since 1979 the Government has taken various steps to improve eco-
nomic management, development planning and institutional performance, in par-
ticular: (i) the preparation of a medium-term Public Investment Program (PIP)
1981-83, emphasizing rehabilitation in priority sectors; (ii) the installation
of high-level technical assistance teams at the Central Bank and the Ministry
of Finance; (iii) the creation of a Central Pay Directorate to streamline and
curtail the growth of the government payroll and a semi-autonomous customs
office (OFIDA); (iv) the adoption of an Agricultural Action Plan, focusing on
the strengthening of institutions, new policies for pricing, credit, marketing



-8-
and foreign exchange allocation, and improved processes for monitoring
project implementation and sectoral investment programming; (v) cooperation
in the preparation of a fiscal study with the IMF/Bank, emphasizing
expenditure control, tax reform and a new regime for Gecamines; (vi)
appointment of broadly-based Executive Boards for Gecamines and Sozacom and
approval of a new marketing arrangement between the two firms; (vii) the
announcement of "privatization" for 37 public enterprises; and (viii) the
implementation of a "decentralization policy" to attain more regional
autonomy. Despite these attempts to define the actions necessary for
recovery, the Governmentts implementation of policies and overall management
has been weak.
22.       Although Zaire's exports are expected to improve in the next three
years (largely because of the anticipated recovery of copper prices), the
resource constraints will remain severe.  This is partly due to the external
public debt burden: the contractual debt service due in the next three years
is equivalent to about 45 percent of projected exports of goods and nonfactor
services. Moreover, as a result of the sharp drop in commitments over the
last few years, the undisbursed project pipeline--the source of future dis-
bursement--has been reduced to US$670 million, compared to US$1.2 billion in
1975,
23.       The Zairian authorities are awvare that in these circumstances they
will need to take stronger action to: (i) bring the foreign exchange rate to
a more appropriate level; (ii) generalize the appi'cation of the price libe-
ralization measures; (iii) reduce the budgetary deficit by implementing the
recommendations of the recently completed IMF/Bank fiscal study; (iv) create
the conditions for improving the prospects of financing Gecamines' rehabili-
tation program; (v) implement the Agricultural Action Plan, bearing in mind
that a number of policies remain to be formulated;  and (vi) revitalize the
public investment programming and monitoring process. The most urgent prior-
ity is to reach a new agreement with the IMfF, as this will help to relieve
the resource pressure and hopefully encourage a new external debt reschedul-
ing agreement.
Regional Constraints and Prospects
24.       Each of the three economies has identified sectoral priorities for
economic development but is constrained by a number of domestic and external
factors--rapid population growth rate, fluctuating terms of trade, inadequate
transport links, weak institutional management and uncertain external assist-
ance. At the level of the Region, the scarcity of arable land, resulting
from intense population pressure, aggravates not only the tenuous level of
subsistence but also the fragile balance between food crop cultivation and
cash crop production,  in addition, the Region is basically a monoculture
economy with coffee as the major cash crop. This dependence subjects the
economy to uncontrollable forces, such as weather and world coffee prices.
Finally, the inadequate internal road network, external transportation
bottlenecks and high transport costs seriously affect the external and
internal trade. Institutional weaknesses, mainly due to the shortage of
skilled managerial and technical staff and the lack of coordinating among



- 9 -
ministries and related agencies, hinder investment planning and the
preparation and implementation of projects. Reliance on scarce external aid
for most capital investments has not only made the economy of the Region
highly vulnerable to external factors, but has also tended to diminish the
impact of the policies and action of the three Governments. Through regional
cooperation, the three Governments can do much to study and initiate actions
to further their shared interests and resolve common problems. By
coordinating resources the transportation difficulties of a landlocked region
can be alleviated, thereby allowing expansion of isolated individual markets
to a regional basis, and pressing issues, such as population planning, or the
development of energy resources, can be approached in a concerted fashion.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Burundi
25.       Bank Group assistance to Burundi was initiated in 1966;  since
then, Burundi has received twenty credits totalling US$157 million. Of
these, six credits were granted for agriculture (two for coffee production,
two for integrated agricultural development, one for fisheries and one for
forestry); four for highway maintenance and improvement; two to improve
primary education and vocational and technical training; two technical
assistance credits for planning and public enterprise management and one
credit each for water supply, assistance to the Economic Development Bank,
urban development, telecommunications, mining and assistance to the local
construction industry. In addition, IFC approved a glass container project
in June 1981. Annex IIA contains a summary statement of IDA credits, notes
on projects in execution and the status of disbursements as of March 31,
1983.
26.       After experiencing difficulties in the early years of Bank lending,
general project implementation performance has improved in most sectors. One
indication of this is the recent upward trend in disbursementsl/. Projects
have suffered from start-up delays, and some were not completed as initially
foreseen because of cost overruns. Disruptions of Burundi's external suppply
routes were on several occasions the cause of these delays. External
difficulties were often compounded by poor project management due to lack of
appropriately trained personnel at all levels and high management turnover.
Given existing constraints, however, project performance is, on the whole,
satisfactory.
27.       Future operations in Burundi will aim primarily at reversing the
decline in agricultural productivity, improving the transport and
1/  In fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements for Burundi totalled US$30.5
million compared to new commitments of US$44.5 million. In the same
period, the average disbursement rate (ratio of annual disbursements
to undisbursed balance) was 27 percent, which is above the average
of 20 percent for countries of the Eastern Africa Region.



- 10 -
communication network, developing energy resources and strengthening absorp-
tive capacity through training and technical assistance.  Projects under
preparation include a third technical assistance credit for improvement of
the planning process, and management and control of the public enterprise
sector; a rural water supply project and an agriculture project. To
strengthen the analytical basis for future lending and assist the government
in the definition of appropriate sectoral policies, sector studies on energy,
agriculture, industry, health and population, and the financial sector have
been recently completed or are underway.
Rwanda
28.       Since Bank Group assistance to Rwanda began in 1970, eighteen IDA
credits have been granted for a total of US$186 million. Seven credits were
for agriculture projects (including livestock, forestry, foodcrops, cinchona
and coffee), five credits were for highway maintenance and construction; two
credits were for education projects to improve the primary and secondary
systems and vocational/technical training; two credits were to assist the
Development Bank, and one credit each for a telecommunication and a technical
assistance project mainly for the preparation of development projects. An
IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed in 1976; a second IFC
loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of up to US$60,000 to
expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980.  Annex IIB contains a
summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1983.
29.       Execution of IDA financed projects has, on the whole, been satis-
factory. Common start-up problems, such as delays in recruiting suitable
experts, have occurred, 'Dut the effects on overall project implementation
have been negligible. The only major problem to date has been misprocurement
of education materials and supplies which led to cancellation of about US$1.5
million under the first Education Project (Cr. 567-RW); the remaining pro-
ject components have been implemented as planned. On the whole, Rwanda's
disbursement performance has been satisfactory2/.
30.       For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain
on rural development, the main objective being to increase food production,
as well as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility. A major emphasis
2/ For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$28.9
million compared with new commitments of US$42.4 million. In this
same period, the average annual disbursement rate (ratio of annual
disbursements to undisbursed balance) was 20 percent which is  about
average for countries of the East Africa Region.



- 11 -
will also be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on pop-
ulation control and support to basic education and skills training to improve
agricultural productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes
on the population issue. Further investment is also justified for infra-
structure and, in particular, transportation to reduce the country's
isolation and provide incentives to further intensification of agriculture as
well as increased specialization and diversification through better
marketing. Another area requiring our special attention is energy to lessen
the demand for fuel imports and mitigate their impact on the balance of
payments. Future operations to be considered by the Association include
projects for health/population, rural development and communications.
Zaire
31.       From 1969 to date, IDA has approved 32 credits totalling US$483
million for agriculture, transport, development finance company operations,
water supply, power and education projects.  The Bank has also extended
grants totalling US$400,000 as contributions towards the cost of two planning
assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 mil-
lion for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the
European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which pro-
vided for special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earn-
ings. The IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societg
Financiere de Dgveloppement Economique, (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million
loan in 1978 for an offshore oil production project and US$230,000 loan in
1982 for studies related to the development of an aluminium complex. Annex
IIC contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC invest-
ments as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
32.       In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last three or four years, release of
the required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budg-
etary constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel,
and the deterioration of the transport network and marketing system, have
resulted in severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retain-
ing adequate staff has also been difficult. The rate of disbursement of IDA
credits has, however, been satisfactory3!.  In January 1980, the Bank
3/  For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 million. In this same
period, the average annual disbursement rate (ratio of annual
disbursements to undisbursed balance) was 24 percent; this compares
favorably with an average rate of about 20 percent for other
countries of the Region.



- 12 -
undertook with Zairian officials an overall review of Bank Group projects
which, for the first time, provided an integrated view of implementation pro-
blems. This has resulted in an acceleration and improvement in the utiliza-
tion of Bank Group assistance, particularly in the agriculture sector. A
second review of Zaire's experience with project implementation and policy
execution is planned for May 1983.
33.       In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the agri-
culture and transport sectors in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also emphasized
through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will contiue to support the trans-
port sector (in particular the Voie Nationale); to assist the development of
the agriculture sector within the framework of the new Agricultural Action
Plan and to promote the development of the industrial and mining sectors. In
addition, further support will be considered for the energy sector.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
34.       In general, energy consumption in the Great Lakes Region is very
low. Household consumption is based on traditional, non-commercial sources;
industrial and commercial activities rely on petroleum products and hydro
generated electricity. Firewood, charcoal and agricultural waste, remain the
major sources of energy in the Region. However, because of population
pressure and deforestation from encroaching agricultural expansion, wood
resources are rapidly being depleted in Burundi and Rwanda, as well as in
certain areas of Kivu. There is potential for hydro-electricity, in par-
ticular along the rivers forming Rwanda's borders with Zaire and Tanzania,
but development would be costly because most sites have low capacity and are
widely scattered, often far from consumption centers. It is known that Lake
Kivu contains considerable amounts of methane and the possibility of oil
resources exists but has not yet been explored; the Association is currently
financing aero magnetic surveys of the region between Zaire and Lake
Victoria. Large deposits of peat have been found in Burundi and Rwanda which
are only beginning to be developed. There may also be some potential for
development of geothermal energy. In June 1982, the Bank published two
Reports on issues and options in the energy sector in Burundi and Rwanda,
respectively (reports No. 3778 and 3779). In addition, in December 1981, the
Bank prepared an Introductory Energy Sector Review of Zaire. The following
provides a summary of the findings of these reports, and of the limited
information available on Kivu.
Burundi
35.       During the last decade, consumption of commercial energy varied
substantially from year to year, reflecting instability in the supply of



- 13 -
petroleum products.  A steady pattern of growth can be seen after 1978, as a
result of the Government's efforts to develop the country's industrial and
commercial sectors.  Growth in energy demand, although temporarily slowed by
effects of hostilities between Uganda and Tanzania on supply, has been at
about 16 percent per annum on average in 1978-81.
36.       Firewood, agricultural waste and charcoal are the principal sources
of energy for the majority of Burundi's population. Dependency of the rural
population on fuelwood and the urban population on inefficiently produced
charcoal, has resulted in severe deforestation which have created both a
fuelwood shortage and soil erosion. Peat resources, which are considerable,
could be developed as a medium-term solution to the fuelwood crisis until the
reforested areas mature for harvest;  consumption has been growing, but is
still low and will require time and exposure to accustom the population to
its use.
37.       In 1981, about 75 percent of commercial energy used was in the form
of petroleum products, while electricity provided 22 percent and peat was
about three percent. Burundi is dependent on foreign sources for its
petroleum and is particularly disadvantaged by its landlocked position which
raises the cost of a barrel of petroleum to US$100.  There is little
opportunity to develop indigenous resources to substitute for petroleum
products since their main use is for transportation. Mini-hydro schemes are
being looked at as a replacement source for industry, commercial and
administrative centers.
Rwanda
38.       Rwanda's energy profile is similar to that of its neighbor, Burundi
and the problems associated with petroleum supply and deforestation are
identical. As in Burundi, per capita consumption of petroleum products is
low (13 liters per year per capita) with little use other than motor
vehicles. Mini-hydro plants and peat are also being looked at as replacement
sources of energy and numerous reforestation activities are underway. The
possibility of exploiting methane gas from Lake Kivu is being actively
considered.
39.       As in the case of Burundi, the demand for commercial energy in
Rwanda in 1979 was influenced by the events in Tanzania and Uganda. There
was zero growth in the demand for commercial energy in 1977 with respect to
1976, while the growth rates were 13 percent in 1978, 5 percent in 1979, and
13 percent in 1980. During the period 1976 to 1980 the increase in
commercial energy demand rose at an average annual rate of about 7 percent
while electricity alone rose at an average annual rate of about 10 percent.
Zaire
40.       The data from which a commercial energy balance could be compiled
for Kivu are very sparse. Demand for energy sources is likely to have
followed the same trend as in the rest of the country, reflecting the general



- 14 -
climate of economic crisis which has affected Zaire for the past eight years
and the pervasive scarcities it has generated. As for Rwanda and Burundi,
the remoteness from seaports and the lack of transport means have severely
constrained the use of oil based energy.
41.       Non commercial energy is more easily available in Kivu than in the
neighboring countries because of its lower population density.  Supply is
problematic in some localities, and growing requirements for wood and char-
coal will necessitate a better management of forestry resources.  This is
nevertheless a less urgent issue than that of commercial energy whose supply
will soon constitute a bottleneck to the development of economic activities
if remedial measures are not taken. The proposed project will improve the
situation for the next decade; beyond that, further development of the
province's abundant hydro potential will have to be envisaged.
The Power Sub-Sector
42.       The availability of electric power to consumers in the region is in
general limited to the major cities and towns, and it is estimated that less
than 2 percent of the total population in the region has access to electri-
city. Until recently, the main sources of electricity for the region have
been two hydroelectric generating stations constructed prior to the
independence of the three countries: Ruzizi, at the outlet of Lake Kivu on
the border between Rwanda and Zaire, and Ntaruka, in northern Rwanda. The
Ruzizi generating station (28 MW) is owned and operated by Zaire's electrici-
ty utility, SNEL, and exports about 60 GWh annually to Burundi and Rwanda.
The Ntaruka generating station, 10.5 MW, is now owned and operated by ELEC-
TROGAZ and serves only Rwanda. Since then, the Mukungwa hydroelectric gener-
ating station (12 MW) was completed in February 1982 and supplies Rwanda. At
about the same time, REGIDESO in Burundi commissioned the Mugere hydroelec-
tric generating station (8 MW) to meet its needs. The overall generating
capability in the region is as follows: Burundi, 13.4 MW; Rwanda, 30 MW;
and Zaire, 50 MW. All of the foregoing plants are interconnected by 110 kV,
70 kV, and 30 kV transmission lines. REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL also
operate several diesel-driven electric generating units in scattered loca-
tions throughout the country; although their capacity is low, it often cons-
titutes the only source of power for isolated localities or industries.
43.       The annual growth rate of demand on the regional interconnected
system averaged approximately 10 percent over the past few years. However,
this figure covers somewhat different demand patterns and consumption levels
according to the countries. Because of a less extensive distribution net-
work, total consumption in Burundi remains low. Expansion of the industrial
sector has increased demand for commercial energy sources and produced fairly
high growth rates from a low base (15 percent and 12 percent for industry and
households respectively since 1978). In Rwanda, a more developed distribu-
tion network has allowed demand to grow more evenly and with higher consump-
tion levels; industrial consumption has increased at about 8 percent since
1978 and domestic demand has grown at about the same pace as in Burundi.
Virtually no data are available for Kivu prior to 1980; since then, growth



- 15 -
was linked to conversion to electricity of industrial facilities or to exten-
sion of the distribution network.
44.       Works in Progress.  Burundi imports almost all its electric power
from Zaire; to lessen this dependence, Burundi has decided to develop a
national power source and has chosen to construct the Rwegura hydroelectric
power generating station (18 MW) which will be financed by KfW, CCCE, FED,
and the Kuwait Fund. Consideration is also being given to rural
electrification mainly through mini-hydro schemes. While there are no active
generation projects in Rwanda, several transmission line projects of 70 kV,
30 kV and 15 kV are being constructed, or will be started shortly, financed
by Belgium, Switzerland and the FED. The second Gisenyi hydroelectric
project (1.1 MW) financed by KfW has not yet started, but the transmission
line linking the nearby Ghira site to Ruhengeri is expected to be completed
by 1984. KfW will also fund repairs to the distribution system in several
small towns. The only active power project in Kivu at this time is a 110 kV
transmission line from Katana to Goma, which is being financed and
constructed by Yugoslavia. Completion is expected at the end of 1984. At
the same time, Yugoslavia will upgrade the 70kV line from Ruzizi I to Katana
to 110 kV.
Government Strategies in the Energy Sector
45.       As noted previously, the major problems facing the region are de-
forestation and the need to reduce dependence on the expensive and unreliable
supply of petroleum products. No long term strategy for the Region as a
whole has yet been formulated by the governments or the regional energy
entity, EGL. In the short and medium terms, there is a consensus that
development of hydroelectric resources is a priority. The first step to be
taken jointly by the three governments is the development of the Ruzizi II
site which would help meet the Region's needs until the early 1990's. In
each country, complementary investments to rehabilitate and expand the
transmission/distribution network will need to be undertaken by the three
national electricity companies (para. 72).
46.       Burundi.  Burundi has virtually no domestic sources of electrical
energy, making development of its indigenous resources an even greater prior-
ity. Recent efforts to promote the use of peat have been fairly successful
and future consumption is expected to expand significantly. To reduce
dependence on imported electricity, Burundi, has decided to proceed with the
Rwegura hydroelectric project. However, even in the short term, Rwegura
would not be sufficient to meet Burundi's needs. Therefore, Burundi has
decided to participate in the Ruzizi II project as well.
47.       Rwanda.  Confronted with the major problems of deforestation and
unreliable petroleum supply (para. 38), the Government of Rwanda has given
very high priority to increasing the availability of electricity. The
Government recognizes that the Ruzizi II hydroelectric project is presently
the most eonomic means of meeting short-term demand requirements necessary
for its economic development.



- 16 -
48.       Zaire.  Kivu province is relatively isolated from the rest of the
country and, in the past, the Zairian Government has not been active in
developing Kivu's energy potential. However, it now recognizes the need for
additional electrical power generating facilities in the Region, and has
joined with Burundi and Rwanda in the promotion of the Ruzizi II project.
IDA Assistance to the Power Sub-Sector
49.       IDA has not made previous loans to the power sub-sectors of either
Burundi or Rwanda; in April 1982, the Association approved Credit No. 1224-
ZR for the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project in south-east Zaire. In
view of the projected shortages of power in the Great Lakes Region, develop-
ment of an indigenous source to support the domestic and industrial sectors
of the Region is an urgent priority. The Association's strategy for the
Region is to support regional cooperation and development of the least cost
means of increasing the supply of electrical energy, strengthening the
national electricity companies and exploring alternative sources of renewable
energy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was identified as a result of a study
initiated by the energy agency of the Great Lakes Region (EGL) financed by
the Fonds Europeen de Dgveloppement (FED). Negotiations were held from March
31, 1983 to April 5, 1983. The delegation of Burundi was headed by Mr.
Isidore Nyaboya, Minister of Public Works and Energy; the delegation of
Rwanda was headed by Mr. Joseph Nzirorera, Minister of Public Works and
Energy; and the delegation of Zaire was headed by Mr. Umba Kyamitala,
Minister of Mines and Energy. Mr. Mbafumoya Tchomba, Director General of EGL
was authorized to negotiate the Project Agreement on behalf of SINELAC.   A
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Ruzizi II, Regional Hydroelectric
Power Project", Report No. 4303-EAF dated May 3, 1983, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary Project data are
contained in Annex III.
Ruzizi II and the Great Lakes Region
51.       EGL, the Organisation de la CEPGL pour ltenergie des pays des
grands lacs whose primary responsibility is to promote the electrification of
the region was the initiator of the Ruzizi II project. In 1976, it launched
a study financed by FED to develop a complex on the Ruzizi river, which forms
a boundary between Zaire and the other two countries. The original proposal
for a 120 MW facility proved too large for the Region's prospective needs; a
second study, also financed by FED, was initiated in 1979 and proposed the
development of a 40 MW project.
52.       The proposed Ruzizi II facility would be located some 15 km down-
stream of the Ruzizi I facility which is currently the main supplier of



- 17 -
electricity to the Region (para. 42). Ruzizi II would be developed in two
stages: the proposed project would finance the first two units totalling
about 27 MW, while a third unit would be installed in 1993. Ruzizi II would
provide generating capacity to avoid a forecast shortage in the region after
1986. The Ruzizi II facility will be owned in equal parts by the three
Governments of the Region which have agreed to create an international
company (SINELAC) to build and thereafter operate it (para. 58).
Objectives
53.       The main objective of the proposed project is to expand the supply
of electricity to the interconnected system serving Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire
in order to sustain the economic growth of their industrial, commercial and
domestic sectors through 1995.
Project Description
54.       The project would include:
-   construction of hydroelectric generating facilities, in-
cluding a dam, powerhouse, switching station and transmis-
sion line;
-   technical assistance for review of project design, super-
vision of construction, initial operation and maintenance
of the facility, dam safety inspection and studies.
55.       Civil Works and Equipment for the Generating Facilities.  A con-
crete gravity dam to be constructed at the head of a series of rapids on the
Ruzizi river, would control the flow of water through a 6 m diameter tunnel,
500 m long, to a conventional above ground powerhouse located near the foot
of the rapids. Two 13.3 MW generating units would be installed in the power
house with provision for a third unit to be added when warranted by the
growth of electricity demand in the region (forecast for 1993). The initial
two-unit installation would provide about 140 GWh of electrical energy in an
average water year. Three single phase transformers and one spare
transformer would be located in an outdoor switching station adjacent to the
powerhouse to raise the power produced to 110 kV for transmission to Rwanda,
Zaire and Burundi (the latter will require completion of a transmission line
to be constructed under a separate project). Local access roads and staff
housing would also be constructed in proximity to the construction area.
56.       Technical Assistance.   Project preparation work was carried out by
EGL and consultants financed by the FED and the Association. Three advances
from the Project Preparation Facility of US$65,000 each financed the services
of (i) engineering experts for a review of design criteria, new cost
estimates, redesign of the switching station and environmental studies; and
(ii) a legal adviser to complete the legal arrangements for SINELAC. For
project implementation, approximately 30 man-months of experts' services will
be needed to analyze tenders, provide final design assistance, coordinate and



- 18 -
control equipment supply and installation. Because of the scarcity of
experienced local technicians, about 12 man-years of experts' services would
be provided by a management team to monitor construction of generating
facilities and to advise on technical aspects, particularly dam and tunnel
works, as well as additional works or equipment which might be proposed by
consultants during the construction period. After commissioning, the
management team would assist SINELAC with operation and maintenance of the
facility for about two years (6 man-years).  The services of a panel of
experts (para. 60) would also be required during project implementation to
advise on dam and safety requirements.
57.       Training.   Provision will be made that the experts of the manage-
ment team would each train one or two local staff, seconded by the national
electricity companies, who will eventually replace the team. No technical
training facilities for the power subsector exist in Burundi or Rwanda; and
Zaire's training school is 1,500 km from the Ruzizi site. Proposals for a
regional training facility to supply staff for the Ruzizi II facility and the
three national companies will therefore be studied to review the
justification and determine the the size and location of such a school,
design a training program, and estimate the number of instructors and the
funds required to maintain the facility.
Framework for Project Implementation
58.       The question of the most suitable institutional framework for the
implementation of the project was debated at length by the Governments con-
cerned. While a regional energy entity, EGL, exists, its mandate is to study
and promote energy development rather than to execute or operate development
projects. Therefore, the three governments agreed to create an international
company, the Socifte Internationale d'Electricite des Pays des Grands Lacs
(SINELAC) to construct and operate the Ruzizi II facility. SINELAC would be
a multinational public enterprise established for a fifty year renewable
period. The Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire contribute equally to
SINELAC's capital, each owning one third of the company. The legal and
contractual framework in which SINELAC will operate was devised to: (i) fit
within the regional organization already in place; (ii) ensure that it will
be operated as a commercial entity; and (iii) maintain a balance in the
benefits that will accrue to the three countries participating in the
proposed project. Ratification of the Treaty and By-laws establishing
SINELAC is scheduled to take place no later than July 1983; in order that
the project executing entity be established before IDA funds are committed,
ratification would be a condition of signature of the IDA Credits. The
transfer by the three Governments of all land and rights in respect of land
required for SINELAC to carry out the Project would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness (Section 6.01 (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreements).
59.       Day-to-day operations of SINELAC will be entrusted to a Management
Committee composed of three members (one from each country) headed by a
General Manager. A Board of Directors, consisting of six members (two from
each country) will supervise the Management Committee and decide on the com-
pany's policies. SINELAC will be governed by a General Assembly, consisting
of the three Ministers of Energy with powers over appointment/dismissal of
the General Manager, Board of Directors and certain financial staff, and
approval of SINELAC's budget. A condition of Credit Effectiveness would be



- 19 -
that an individual with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association has taken up the position of General Manager on a full-time basis
(Section 6.01 (f) of the draft Development Credit Agreements).
60.       During the project implementation period, assistance to the SINELAC
General Manager would be provided by technical experts. An administrative
and financial assistant to the General Manager has been recruited, financed
by the FED. To monitor the construction, advise and assist in the initial
operation of the Ruzizi II facility, SINELAC would retain a management team
of technical experts comprising one civil, one mechanical and electrical
engineer and a chief accountant, all with appropriate experience gained at an
internationally known utility company. At the time of commissioning of the
facilities, about 75 staff would be required to be in place; approximately
25 of these staff would be semi-skilled technical and administrative staff
seconded from the three national electricity companies. Assurances were
obtained that: (i) SINELAC would employ after construction on a full-time
basis a Technical Director and a Financial and Administrative Director whose
qualifications and experience would be acceptable to the Association (Section
3.04 (b) of the draft Project Agreement); (ii) the civil engineer of the
team of technical experts would be employed by December 31, 1983, the chief
accountant by June 30, 1984 and the mechanical and electrical engineer by
December 31, 1985; the last two experts would remain employed at least two
years after commissioning (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Project Agreement);
and (iii) suitably qualified and experienced personnel, to be trained by the
experts of the management team, would be assigned by REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and
SNEL to SINELAC when the team members have taken up their positions (Section
3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreements). SINELAC will receive
additional assistance from a panel of experts who would review the adequacy
of design and safety of the dam and related structures, and conduct periodic
reviews of the design during, and for a limited period following,
construction (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Project Agreement). In addition,
consultants to be selected by December 31, 1983 will carry out the study for
a regional training facility (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Project
Agreement). All experts financed by the Association would have
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Association and would be selected in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
61.       Although SINELAC would be formed to manage and operate the Ruzizi
II facilities, it could acquire and operate other electric power
installations. However, prior to undertaking any investment in addition to
the proposed project, SINELAC would review and discuss this investment with
the Association; any proposed investment in excess of US$500,000 equivalent
would not be undertaken without the Association's prior approval (Section
4.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
62.       In its relations with its shareholder-Governments and the national
electricity Companies, SINELAC would receive revenue and pay debt service and
dividends in the three national currencies. Free convertibility would
therefore be necessary for all operating activities of the Ruzizi II
facilities. Furthermore, SINELAC would need to purchase foreign exchange
from time to time during the period of Ruzizi II operation. Each Central
Bank would (a) maintain at all times the free convertibility between the
Burundi franc, Rwandese franc and zaire for SINELAC's quarterly bank account



- 20 -
balances; and (b) provide SINELAC with foreign exchange required for
maintenance and renewal of the facilities and audits (Section 4.04 of the
draft Development Credit Agreements).
63.       Financing of SINELAC's Cash Expenditures.  In order to ensure that
SINELAC's cash requirements are met in the early years of operation of the
Ruzizi II facilities, each electricity company would be required to provide
SINELAC with at least one third of the funds needed to cover expenditures for
operation, maintenance and debt service. This minimum payment would be made
even if the electricity company required less than the quantity of electrici-
ty which the minimum payment could purchase. In cases where a company's
electricity needs are greater than the purchase allowed by the minimum pay-
ment, the excess would be used to reduce equally and proportionally the mini-
mum payment of the other companies. A formula for calculating the minimum
payment as well as the bulk tariff (described in para. 64 below) will be
recorded in contracts to be signed between SINELAC and each of the three
electricity companies as a condition of Credit Effectiveness (Sections 4.03
and 6.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreements).
64.       Tariffs.  SINELAC will operate as a commercial utility.  Adjustment
of SINELAC's tariffs would be carried out regularly by its Management Commit-
tee and submitted to its Board of Directors for approval; if no disagreement
is registered by the Board within 60 days, the tariffs would automatically be
applied. SINELAC's tariffs for the bulk sale of electricity to the three na-
tional electricity companies would be established at a level to achieve a 10
percent financial rate of return, which would be sufficient to ensure a sound
financial position for SINELAC. Computation of the tariff would be based on
the cost of the project and forecast sales from Ruzizi II. Based on the
costs as estimated in the consultants' engineering studies, the average
tariff would be US d 8.4/kWh after transmission and distribution losses, in
constant 1982 prices. At least eight months prior to the forecast date of
commissioning, when the cost of construction is well established, SINELAC
would employ a consultant, to make a new calculation based on an updated
demand forecast for electricity, of the average tariff that would obtain a 10
percent financial rate of return for the proposed project. No later than
three months prior to the date estimated for the commissioning of the facili-
ties, SINELAC would furnish to the Association the report of the consultant
(Sections 2.02 (a) and 4.05 (a) of the draft Project Agreement). Each year
thereafter, SINELAC will review its tariffs in consultation with the Associa-
tion (Section 4.05 (b) and (c) of the draft Project Agreement) at the time of
the preparation of its budget. It is estimated that the resulting level of
earnings would be sufficient to finance a third unit of 13.3 MW for Ruzizi II
to be commissioned in 1993.  Should SINELAC accummulate cash in excess of its
foreseen requirements, its Board of Directors could decide to distribute
dividends to its shareholders.
Cost Estimates
65.       The total project cost is estimated at US$84.9 million of which
US$72.7 million is foreign exchange (86 percent of total project cost).
These costs are net of duties and taxes, reflecting agreement of the three



Governments to exempt the project from these costs. A detailed breakdown of
project costs is shown in the Summary of the Credits and Project.  Cost
estimates are based on September 1982 prices.  Physical contingencies of 15
percent were applied to the costs of civil works, roads and housing to allow
for possible increase in quantities due to foundation and structural
conditions; physical contingencies of 10 percent were applied to all other
items. Except for the technical assistance component, price contingencies of
8 percent in 1983; 7.5 percent in 1984; 7 percent in 1985; and 6 percent
in 1986 and 1987 were applied to the base costs plus physical contingencies
to obtain the total project cost of US$84.9 million. The local currency
applicable for the project would be the zaire since most works will be
carried out on Zaire's territory. It is standard practice for projects in
Zaire to take domestic inflation into account by calculating costs in US
dollars and assuming that the progressive devaluation of the zaire would
compensate for local price increases. The cost of consultants' services
ranges from US$8,500 per man-month 'or the training study to US$12,000 per
man-month for the panel of experts; these costs include salaries, travel,
subsistence and miscellaneous expenses. Interest during construction would
be capitalized, and would amount to US$46 million over the eight-year grace
period for the onlending of the IDA credit, and the ten-year grace period for
the FED credit.
Financing Plan
66.       Co-financiers' funds, totalling US$75.9 million, would cover 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost and 26 percent of the local cost
equivalent, or 89 percent of the estimated project cost, excluding interest
during construction. The three IDA credits, totalling US$45 million (US$15
million to each of the three Governments), would finance 53 percent of the
estimated project cost, representing 62 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange component. The IDA credits would finance civil works and technical
assistance. A FED loan of US$16.8 million equivalent and a grant of US$3.7
million equivalent would finance hydraulic equipment, turbines, external
electrical equipment and the cost of engineering design and supervision. A
grant from the Italian Government in the amount of US$8.5 million equivalent
would be used to finance generators and powerhouse electrical equipment. A
loan of US$1.9 million from the Banque de Developpement des Etats des Grands
Lacs (BDEGL) would be used to finance construction of roads and staff
houses. The Governments of Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire would each provide the
equivalent of US$3 million to cover the local costs related to civil works
and technical assistance; these funds would be obtained through internal
cash generation of the three national electricity companies (see para. 73).
67.       The proceeds of the IDA credits would be on-lent by the Governments
to SINELAC for 25 years, including an 8 year-grace period, at 10.97 percent.
Signature of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between SINELAC and each of the three
Governments would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreements). The FED loans to the three
Governments would be for a period of 40 years, with 10 years grace at an
interest rate of one percent per annum and would be on-lent to SINELAC on the
same terms. Interest during construction related to the IDA credits and FED
loan amounting to US$46 million would be capitalized and repaid by SINELAC
from the revenues of its sales of electricity. The three Governments would



- 22 -
pass on the Italian funds as grants to SINELAC. SINELAC would obtain a loan
directly from BDEGL at 7.5 percent interest for 13 years with a three year
grace period. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be that all
conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of funds under the
cofinanciers' agreements and under the Association's three Development Credit
Agreements have been fulfilled (Sections 6.01 (b) and (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreements).
Procurement
68.       Procurement for work to be financed under the IDA Credits would be
limited to the civil works contract and experts' services. Tenders for the
civil works contract have been called from prequalified contractors, who
responded to a published notice in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for
international competitive bidding. Procurement for mechanical and electrical
equipment for the project would be in accordance with the individual lenders'
requirements. The experts funded under the technical assistance component
would be selected in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
Disbursements
69.       The proceeds of the three credits would be disbursed over six
years; each credit would finance one-third of the following: 87 percent of
the total expenditure for the civil works (US$30 million); 100 percent of
the foreign cost of technical assistance (US$3 million); 100 percent of the
foreign cost of audits (US$105,000); and a refunding of the advances from
the Project Preparation facility (US$195,000). Unallocated funds total
US$11,700,000.  All expenditures would be fully documented.   The closing
date for the credits would be September 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
70.       SINELAC's accounts would be established with the assistance of the
chief accountant of the management team of technical experts. During the
construction period, SINELAC's accounts, including separate accounts
recording all withdrawals made by SINELAC under the Credits, would be audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association and financed by the
three IDA Credits. Beginning in 1987, when the facilities are commissioned,
SINELAC's accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and the audited accounts and auditors' report would be made
available to the Association no later than six months after the end of each
financial year (Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Impact of the Project on National Electricity Companies
71.       The three national electricity companies, REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and
SNEL, would be the sole customers of SINELAC and would contribute out of
their own revenues the share of total project cost to be financed by each
Government (para. 66). Because of their relationship with SINELAC, the
Association would require information on the financial position of the three



- 23 -
companies, as follows: (i) REGIDESO would continue to provide separate
annual financial statements for its electricity and water operations, and a
revaluation of its fixed assets; would continue to have its accounts audited
each year by a firm acceptable to the Association, and submit to the
Association financial statements and the auditor's report no later than six
months after the end of the financial year (Section 4.09 of the draft Burundi
Development Credit Agreement); (ii) ELECTROGAZ would have its annual
accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and
submit them within six months of the end of each financial year (Section 4X09
of the draft Rwanda Development Credit Agreement); and (iii) SNEL would
prepare financial statements for the Kivu interconnected system as part of
the accounting of SNEL's Eastern Region; SNEL's accounts, including Kivu's
annual accounts, would be audited by external auditors acceptable to the
Association, and audit reports and copies of the accounts would be forwarded
to IDA within six months of the end of the financial year (Section 4.08 of
the draft Zaire Development Credit Agreement).
72.       While the proposed Ruzizi II project would increase electricity
supply, expansion of the national transmission and distribution networks will
be necessary to ensure optimal utilization of the electricity generated and
meet forecast demand.  Studies have been initiated, financed by advances from
the Project Preparation Facility, as follows: (i) Burundi has received an
advance of US$400,000 to study a transmission line linking Bujumbura and
Ruzizi II, distribution lines, and financial assistance to REGIDESO (accounts
and tariffs); (ii) Rwanda has received an advance of US$440,000 to study
rehabilitation of the transmission system and a small hydropower plant, ex-
pansion of its interconnected transmission network, costs of consumables to
establish a maintenance program and financial assistance to ELECTROGAZ (asset
revaluation and tariffs); and (iii) Zaire has received an advance of
US$440,000 to study rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I facility and a portion of
its transmission and distribution systems, upgrading of a portion of its
transmission system, and the feasibility of constructing a thermal electric
generating plant fueled by wood. Because the complementary works to rehabi-
litate and expand the transmission and distribution networks are an important
element in the usage of power generated by Ruzizi II, the three Governments
would agree to carry out these works based on the recommendationsof the above
studies (Section 4.10 of the Burundi and Rwanda, and Section 4.09 of the
Zaire draft Development Credit Agreements).
73.       The national electricity companies will finance their respective
Government's contribution to the proposed project through adjustment of
tariffs (US$3 million in construction and technical assistance expenditures
and working capital and US$0.5 million in paid-in interest and charges during
construction) (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreements).
The payment by each Government to SINELAC of US$100,000 as a contribution
towards its working capital requirements would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness (Section 6.01 (g) of the draft Development Credit Agreements).
The electricity companies also would be expected to eventually finance the
local counterpart to the related transmission and distribution works
described in paragraph 72 above. To finance the Governments' contribution to
SINELAC and complementary investments, it is estimated that tariffs in
constant prices would have to be raised substantially in Burundi and Zaire,



- 24 -
above their respective 1982 level of US.¢ 9.1 per kWh and US.¢ 3.7 kWh;
however, it is likely that, due to a recent adjustment, no increase will be
necessary in Rwanda where the electricity price is currently US¢ 12.5 per
kWh. In the case of REGIDESO and ELECTROGAZ, tariff studies are being
carried out through advances from the Project Preparation Facility as noted
above; ELECTROGAZ will also have its assets revalued by consultants financed
by the advance. Provision has been made under the Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1224-ZR) for studies to revalue SNEL's assets
and to eliminate disparities in its tariff structure to be completed in
1984. Until the aforementioned studies have been completed and reliable cost
estimates are available, no adjustment of retail tariffs related to the
project is proposed. REGIDESO would carry out its tariff study by December
31, 1983 (Section 4.06 of the draft Burundi Development Credit Agreement).
ELECTROGAZ would revalue its assets at the end of each fiscal year and
complete its tariff study by December 31, 1983 (Sections 4.06 and 4.07 of the
draft Rwanda Development Credit Agreement). SNEL would undertake to carry
out annual asset revaluations (Sections 4.06 of the draft Zaire Development
Credit Agreement).
Justification
74.       Electricity sales in the Great Lakes Region grew rapidly during the
period 1977-81, averaging 10 percent annually for the region as a whole. In
Burundi, fairly rapid growth in electricity demand (13 percent overall) re-
sulted mainly from expansion in the industrial sector. More moderate growth
is projected for the commercial, industrial and household sectors resulting
in estimated growth averaging 12 percent for the 1982-90 period. Rwanda has
experienced significant growth in both the domestic (25 percent) and
commercial (20 percent) sectors as a result of recent expansion of its
transmission system. These high rates are expected to decline as the
pressure of suppressed domestic demand diminishes. Demand growth averaging 9
percent per annum is estimated for Rwanda over 1982-90. Limited information
is available on past sales to Zaire's Kivu region. Few investments have been
made to expand distribution in that region. Construction of a transmission
line from Katana to Goma is scheduled for completion by end-1984 and
transmission and distribution works complementary to the Ruzizi II project
would serve to relieve suppressed demand in the region. Average annual
growth rates for the Kivu region therefore are estimated to average 13
percent for the 1982-90 period.
75.       The expected growth in demand for electrical energy in the inter-
connected system implies that supply from existing facilities in the region
would be inadequate by 1986. The Bank Group considered two alternatives for
supplying the region: (i) the proposed Ruzizi II facility with an initial
capacity of 26.6 MW at a cost of US$85 million; and (ii) the Rwegura facility
with a capacity of 18 MW at a cost of US$74 million; after thorough review
of both projects, the Bank Group chose to support the Ruzizi II project on
the basis that it is the least cost solution. The Government of Burundi has,
however, obtained sufficient external financing, mostly on concessional
terms, to proceed with the Rwegura project. If neither the Ruzizi II nor the
Rwegura project were built, a shortage of 27 GWh would appear in 1987 and



- 25 -
grow annually at a rate of about 30 GWh. If both Ruzizi II and Rwegura are
commissioned in 1987 as scheduled, the region would be oversupplied for
approximately two years. However, the probability of simultaneous entry on
stream of the two facilities is low given the technical complexities of the
Rwegura project. A more realistic completion data for the Rwegura project is
1989 -- in which case there would be no oversupply.
Economic Rate of Return
76.       As noted in paragraph 64, an average bulk tariff of US ¢ 8.4/kWh
would yield a 10 percent rate of return on the Ruzizi II facilities.
However, the sale of power from Ruzizi II would depend partly on subsequent
works to rehabilitate and expand the national distribution networks, which
the three countries have agreed to undertake (para. 72). An appropriate rate
of return should therefore be estimated on the basis of the cost of both the
hydro facilities and the transmission/distribution works. An average retail
tariff based on preliminary estimates for the cost of transmission/
distribution works was estimated at US e 11.4/kWh in 1982 prices (bulk tariff
plus transmission and distribution costs of US ¢ 3.0/kWh).  This average
retail tariff would yield a 9 percent rate of return. This is, however, a
minimum estimate of the true economic rate of return since there are benefits
which are not captured and which are derived from the availability of
hydropower rather than higher cost diesel-generated power that some consumers
would be ready to buy. Financial forecasts for the three national
electricity companies indicate that the average tariff could be attained in
1987 and thereafter.
Environmental and Riparian Aspects
77.       The Ruzizi river flows 150 km from Lake Kivu in the north with Lake
Tanganyika in the south. Lake Kivu serves as a boundary between Zaire and
Rwanda; the Ruzizi river forms Zaire's boundary with Burundi and Rwanda; and
Lake Tanganyika serves as a boundary for Zaire, Burundi, Tanzania and
Zambia. The proposed Ruzizi II complex would be located 15 km below the
outlet of Lake Kivu and about 130 km upstream where the Ruzizi river
discharges into Lake Tanganyika. The flow to Ruzizi II would be controlled
by the Ruzizi I dam which lies upstream and regulates the level of Lake
Kivu. Water removed above the Ruzizi II dam would be returned to the river
about 500 meters downstream, and after falling about 30 meters. The effect
on the Ruzizi river flow will, therefore, be almost nil except for the 500
meter expanse, where the volume of flow will vary depending on the demand for
power and with the seasons. Because the effects of the project on the river
are negligible, use of the river raises no issues related to international
water rights with the downstream states who have, in any event, been informed
of the project and expressed no objections. The three Governments also
agreed, not to act or allow any action to be taken which would affect the
availability of natural resources (including water flow from Lake Kivu to the
Ruzizi river) essential to the project. These arrangements are satisfactory
to the Association.



- 26 -
78.         The dam and generating station would also have little effect on
the daily lives of the inhabitants in the immediate vicinity of the proposed
site, because the river water upstream of the dam would be raised only about
2 m above its present maximum level during a peak flood. Compensation would
be paid for the removal of about 30 dwellings housing 200 persons, which
require relocation to provide space for construction activities and access
roads. All water diverted into the powerhouse to drive the turbines would be
returned to the river unadulterated. A fish ladder would be incorporated in
the facility to permit the passage of fish around the powerhouse and dam
during the migration season.
Risks
79.       Possible risks faced by the project are associated with
construction works, with the operation of SINELAC and with a slower than
anticipated growth of demand for electricity. Civil works present minimal
risks in view of the relatively simple design of the proposed facility; other
construction risks have been minimized by the requirement for SINELAC to
retain consultants with adequate experience to carry out design and review
procurement procedures (para. 56), as well as a panel of experts to advise on
dam safety (para. 62). In addition, the management team of technical experts
will provide continuing assistance during the construction period (para.
61). The risk of delays is more serious because of the landlocked location
of the site and the dearth of adequate transportation facilities in the
region. This risk would be lessened through good planning facilitated by the
presence of the experts mentioned above. The possibility of cost overruns is
small since some tenders have been received and major costs have been
identified.
80.       The risks associated with SINELAC's operation derive from the
relative complexity of the relations between the three Governments and their
distribution companies on the one hand, and a newly created, hence
inexperienced, company. Cooperation among the Governments, directly and
through EGL, should not raise problems given their interest in SINELAC's
smooth operation. The record of past cooperation within the framework of
Ruzizi I is quite positive. Moreover, the relations between the various
parties has been defined in the comprehensive legal and contractual framework
linking them and aimed at ensuring SINELAC's sound financial position.
Internally, SINELAC will be managed with the help of a management team for at
least two years after commissioning.
81.       A third possible risk would be that the anticipated rate of growth
of demand does not materialize. The risk is minimal since load forecasts for
each country have been calculated quite conservatively and the completion of
transmission/distribution works is expected to generate a substantial amount
of additional demand. Moreover, demand projections and the tariff to be
applied by SINELAC will be recomputed by consultants three months before
commissioning of the Project facility; thus reducing the financial impact on
SINELAC of a decrease in forecast demand.



- 27 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Development Credit Agreements between the Republic of
Burundi, the Rwandese Republic and the Republic of Zaire and the Association,
the draft Project Agreement between SINELAC and the Association and the
Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III. A condition of Credit signing would be
ratification of the Articles of Agreement and By-laws establishing
SINELAC (para. 58). Special conditions of Effectiveness of the three Credits
would be:  (i) transfer of the land and rights in respect of land required
for carrying out the project (para. 58);  (ii) that the General Manager of
SINELAC shall have taken up his position (para. 59); (iii) completion of
contractual arrangements for the sale of power from Ruzizi II to the three
national electricity companies (para. 63); (iv) payment by each Government
to SINELAC of US$100,000 each as a contribution towards its working capital
requirements (para. 73); (v) execution of the subsidiary loan agreements
between Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire, and SINELAC (para. 67); and (vi)
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of
cofinanciers' funds (para. 67).
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credits would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the three proposed
credits.
A. W. Clausen,
President
Attachments
May 5, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 28 -                                                 ANNEX 1A
Page 1 of 7
TABLE 3A
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              27.8                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       17.2              1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMIATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   60.0        200.0    235.0 1/               250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUPUTION PER CAPITA
(EILOr.RAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      10.81c       10.8      16.6                  66.5                     610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPIULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  2851.0       3350.0    4097.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2.2           2.2       2.3                  11.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         6.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          18.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       102.4       120.4      144.5                  27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. NM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    176.0        203.4      233.6                  86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.6        43.8       43.9                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.6        53.2       53.0                  52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9         3.0        3.1                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GRONTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.6          1.6       2.0                   2.7                      2.8
URBAN                               1.6          1.6       2.5                   6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.9        44.4       45.5                  47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.7         24.1      22.2                  19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.9       3.1                   3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          103.0       100.0       99.0                  88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQIIREMENTS)                    97.3        98.4       99.1/d                90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           60.2        60.7       61.2/d                53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        30.1        29.7       30.6/d                18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      32.8         29.4      24.6                  26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2          39.7      41.9                  45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           150.3        138.7     121.6                 129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  23.9
IRBAN                                '          77.0      94.0                  54.9
RURA.                                ..           ..        ..                  18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  25.8
URBAN                                *         96.0       95.0                  63.1
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          96566.7     55833.3   45020.0/e              32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4526.6       7494.4    6180.0/e              3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             877.6       744.4         ..                1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                              27.3       113.4         ..                 249.5                   430.8
RURAL                            3723.1       1074.9        ..                1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL           6                                 ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTA.                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL
I/ Atlas mechodolugy (1979-81 base period) estimates.



-29-                                               AMNEX 1A
Page 2 of 7
TABLE 3A
DURUNI --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIM aTE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                18.0         27.0      23.0 LI               63.2                     83.3
MALE                 27.0        37.0       28.0 12              72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                9.0         18.0      18.0 13              50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   1.0         2.0       2.0/4                10.2                    15.3
MALE                  1.0          3.0       3.0                 13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                1.0          1.0       2.016                6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 35.0          23.7      11.9/d /7              7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO                                             Is
PRIMARY                           35.7         36.7      32.8-                 47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                         14.9         11.2      18.8/d t9             26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        13.9/c        ..      22.6 /1              34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.1          1.1       1.3/f                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        20.0         19.4      37.3                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        ..                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          0.1       0.4/e                 2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1/c         ..       0.0                   1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1494.5      1676.1    1944.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  45.9         45.3      45.1                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             90.0         87.0      84.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.0          4.0       5.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               52.4         50.0      47.5                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                58.3         56.0      53.9                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                              46.9         44.4      41.5                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9         0.9       1.0                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HCUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCO!tE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..    213.0                  134.3                   507.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     136.0                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      37.0                  60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      55.0                  39.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      85.0                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1962; /d 1977; Ie 1975; /f 1976.
The following figures reflect the most recently available estinate3
1/  29.0      2/  35.0       3/  23.0      4/  2.6       5/  3.5
b/  1.7       7/  18.0       8/  37.0       9/  14.4    T0/  25.0
February 1983



ANNEX IA
Page 3 of 7
-30-
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
-RWANDA                           REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVECAGZS
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             26.3                                      MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOM.
AGRICULTURAL      14.5                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIKAIF lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOLUTH OF SANARA
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      70.0       100.0      239.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          14.5        13.9       28.3                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      2858.0      3695.0    SS10.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      2.4         3.2        4.5                  17.S                    26.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           10.4
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MILLIONS)                             38.1
YErAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          108.5       146.3     210.0                   27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        189.3       240.7    393.0                    86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             44.3        45.7      46.7                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             53.0        51.6      50.6                  52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       2.7         2.7       2.7                    2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.6         2.6       3.6                    2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                  5.4         5.4        6.3                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         51.2          ..       53.3                 47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THiOUSAND)        27.2        22.3       20.1                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..           ..       4.1                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..
FOCD AD N'UTRITION
INDEX OF FOU  PRODUCTION
pER CAPITA (1969-71'100)              81.0       102.0      105.0                 88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       83.3        95.6       94.2/c               90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              50.7        61.0       57.077                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           25.6        34.0      29.177                 18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         32.0        30.5       29.0                  26.7                    23.9
HP.ALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2        42.1       45.2                  45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              147.0       142.0      137.0                 129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..       37.0/d                23.9
URBAN                                   ..          ,,       47.0/1                54.9
RURAL                                   .-          ..       37.0/1                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..        53.0       57.0/e               25.8
URBAN                                   ..        S3.0      87.07e                63.1
RURAL                                   ..        52.0       56.077               20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN            143285.7/f   59596.8   3S791.7/c             32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11617.877    8818.6   10460.777              3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                    .       790.4      650.0/c             1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                                    .        45.9      45.277               249.5                   430.8
RURAL                                   *-      3097.0    1599.777              1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        21.2       21.3.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   * *'
gtURAL                                                       4.5/.
AVERACE NUMBER Of PERSONS PER ROOM
TOrAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   * --
RURA                                    ..          ..         .                     ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RUL                                     ..          ..



ANNEX IA
- 31 -                                                      age-4 of 7
TABLE 3A
KWANl5r-0-IAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWAIDA                       REPERCE GROUPS (WhICTED AVES
- MDST RECENT ESTZHATE)-E
NDST RECENT           LOW INCOME          - IDLE INCOME-
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMtAE /b   ARICA SOUIH Of SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTE OF SAUARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:    TOTAL                 49.0        73.0      70.0                 63.2                    83.3
MALE                 68.0        83.0      74.0                 72.7                    %.I
FEMALE               30.0        64.0      67.0                 50.3                   60.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         2.0       2.0                 1Qr2                    15.3
MALE                  2.0         3.0       3.0                 13.2                   19.4
FEMALE                1.0         1.0       1.0                  6.6                   11.3
VOC&TIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 39.9         12.2      16.7                  7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           38.6        59.7      53.2                 47.4                   38.6
SECONDARY                         14.2        13.3      15.3                 26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       16.4/f      23.0/h    49.5                 34.0                   35.6
CONSU4PTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         0.9       1.5/c                3.0                   31.9
'AD1O RECEIVERS PER THOUSAN?:
POPULATION                          ..         8.1      30.1                 34.8                   71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                  1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER '%'DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCUIATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..       0.04/c               2.9                   19.1
CUIEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          .,      14.657                1.1                    0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOZA I;UEOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1617.8       2007.1    2679.8
FIMALE (PERCENT)                  49.1        48.6      48.4                 34.1                   36.5
AGRICULTIUE (PERCENT)             95.0        93.0      91.0                 79.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 1.0         2.0       2.0                  9.2                   17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               56.6        54.3      51.8                 41.4                    37.0
tALE                                58.9        56.9      54.7                 53.9                   46.9
FINALE                              54.4        51.9      49.1                 29.1                   27.2
ONOMIC DEPENDElCY RATIO                0.8         0.9       1.0                  1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENr OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIHWEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..                   ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
WEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ZSTIMAtED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                ,.          ..    148.0/c               134.3                  507.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      S5.07                82.9                  200.6
ZStIDATED RELATIVE POVERt`Y INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
u-AN                                ..          ..        ..                 96.4                  523.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      43.0/c               60.4                  203.6
EStDiATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URA                                 ..          ..      30.0/c               39.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      90.07w               69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
I.  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetc means.  Coverage of countries
among the indlcators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless othetwie. noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betw-.n 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; end for Most Rocent Estisate, btween 197S nd S2.
/e   1977; /d 1976;  /a 1975;  /f 1962; /A 1974;  /h 1971.       -
way, 1982



ANNEX IA
Page 5 of 7
-32 -
TAlLZ 3A
SA:EE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAE S                          TUERPNCE GROUPS (WEICNlED AVE;'ACES
AE  (TEA JOUSAND SO. YE.)                                                      - WDST RECENT ESTIIAt '- 4
SeAr  RECENT          LOW INCOME            IvID 1::IOKC
ACaIru tUiAL    154.8 1960  /b   1970 /b ESTThATE /b  AFRICA SOUTN Or SAMARA  URICA SOt{'N Of SAWAPA
G   PER CAPITA (tUSS)                90.0       140.0    220.0                250.8                 1053.2
iWERIRT CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EiLOZGRl'S OF CC  EQEiJALENT)     95.5      103.2    100.1                  66.3 110.1
POFULATInS  AtD VTI.1 STATISTICS
SOPIULA,1100,    (r RtICUSASOS) 17256.0    21163.0  282.91.0
mSA2 POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7       21.6      34.0                 17.S                    8.
POPULATION PAtOECTIONS
FOPULATIJN IN YEAR 2000 (MILL.ONS)                    31.0
STATIONAPY POPLLATION (MI_IC.IC)                     156.0
VEA! STATIC.URY POPULATION IS REACHED               2110
?OPULATlON DENSITY
7ut SQ. rs.                       7.6         9.2     11.7                 27.7                   54.1
nER SQ. EL. ACiICULTURAL LAND    120.2      143.1    177.7                 S6.7                  129.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.1         .3      44.7                 44.8                   44.0
15-44 IRS.                        52.9       52.9      32.5                 32.3                   31.1
65 TES. ANiD AOVE                  3.0        2.8       2.8                  2.9                    2.$
POPULIATION (SOWTR RIATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.0      2.7                  2.7                    2.8
ODrAD                             ..         5.2       7.2                  6.2                    5.2
CRUOD BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0       47.2      43.9                 47.3                   *7.2
CRLGE IENTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.3       21.5      17.9    *            19.3                   13.7
GROSS REPROILCTI IO RATE            3.0        3.0       3.0                  3.2                    3.2
FAMISLY PLANNING
ACCEFIORS  AN.NuL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..
Mias (£ERCNT OP IA.RED WOMEN)   ..            ..        ..
J00D AND NUTRITILON
LNrDix OF FO.)O PiOCVCTION
?El CAPITA (t1569-71-10)        101.0      101.0      68.0                 U1.7                   90.7
116 CAPITA SiPPLY OF
CAORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIEL'IENTS)                 98.3      101.3    102.4/c                90.2                   3.9
ROTEINS (OSAMSl ?ER IAr)        35.9        37.4      35. 77               53.1                   346.
r WHICEt ANIIA.L AND PULSE     13.1        12.7      9.97S               18.4                   17.0
CasID (AGES I-4) tlORTALI:Y LATE    32.7      27.3      21.9                 26.7                   23.9
WEA;LTH
l.IFP EXPECIANCY AT S11TH (YEARS)   40.0      42.7      47.1                 43.6                   51.0
INrANT HORTALItY RArE (PER
VIOUSAN)                          130.0      132.0    112.0                 129.9                  118.3
ACCfSS TO SAE WATE (PERCENT OF
IOPULATOI )
TOTAL                              ..       11.0      16.0/4               23.0
on"I                              ..        33.0      43.071               34.9
RURL                               ..        4.0       3.071               1s5.
ACCES TO 2XC12TA DISPOSAL (PERCET
O  POPUlATION)
torAL                              ..        5.0      22.0/4               25.4
U                                  ..        3.0      63.071       e        3..
RURAL                              ..        3.0       6.071               20.:
1OPULATIOt PtE PH!SICXA.4     37621.4    30136.5  13329.3                32097.3                14193.2
POPULATION FER NURSI4G PERSON    3511.7     2294.6   1419.9                3264.6                 2213.2
9FPULATION PER HOSPITAL RID
TOTAL                          230.8       320.0    339.0                1223.0                 1036.4
Us.s                             J1.2       86.8    144.9                 249.        :          430.8
RURAL                          770.5      1046.7   2623.4                1n72.1                 36.6
ACASS1WHS "A HOSPITAL SED          ..          ..
AVERAGEt SIZE Of %OtiSEHOLD
TOTAL                             .,          ,*         .
RUAL                              ..          ..       6.0
avauRA   R IGSU   OP PERSONs n! woa
TOTAL                             ..          *.                             .
SUANo                               .         0 ..           ..
0-.AL                                         *.
Ccss To ELECTEICIrT (PRECU
Or PAILU.!HS)
TAL                               ..          ,    .    .-                    ..
* AN                              ..          ..        ..                   ..



ANNEX IA
Page 6 of 7
- 33 -
TAPLE 'A
ZAIRE - SU±-V,L INTflCAI0RS DATA SH?IET
ZAIlZ                         REFZENCE GOIUS G  VEICHTED AVERACES
- #EOST RECENt ESTIKATE l /
115ST RECENT          LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   li;0 tb ESTIMATEg /b   AFRICA SCUTH OF SAAM  A-RICA SOUTH Or SAZA
AUS'.fD E.1OLL!.4F.T RATIOS
ftbY:        tOTAL                60.0        63.0      90,0/i               63.2                    83.3
KAE                  66.0       10.       103.OF,               72.7                    96.1
.  7(hu              32.0        65.0      77.0Or               50.3                    80.4
SECONARY:  TOTAL                   3.0         9.0      19.O/C               10.2                    11.3
PALE                  4.0        13.0      23.07r               13.2                    19.4
JDLC                  1.0         4.0      14.07;                6.6                    11.3
VOCATIOrAL ENTIOL. ': OF SWCCMART) 26.S          9.6      13.2/c                7.9                     4.7
MPI L-TFACHER RATIO
nLHARAY                           39.9        42.6        ..                 47.4                    38.4
SECOZJOAPLy                       20.3        20..      27.0/c               26.2                    23.4
AmL1 'LIT, CY WPE (VERCi'T)         31.3Jf      13.0      57.9                  34.0                   31.6
00NSUI0PIE0N
PASSENGR CARS PER THOUSXND
3t0  A.TIOtU                       3.0         3.0       3.6/j                3.0                    31.0
NIIIO LICEIVEA.5 YER THOUSAND
P0O?;LATIO%                                 , 2.9        4.9                 34.8                    71.5
TV LFrEIVERS n5 71.OL'SAND
KPULATION                           .,         0.3       0.3                  1.7                    17.9
UImSPAPER (0DA1Z.Y tEz.E?A.L
INTE.EST-) ClkCULArION PER                                         V.
OtUMSAND POPULATION         .        1.2         9.2       1.6                  2.9                    19.1
CI.NEMA SNNUL. ATTZNOANCE PER WCI:&  0.1         0.1       O.18                 t.l                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
IttL sLuCCa FOntE  nSAusm)    e8215.5         9464.8  11636.5
FEMALE (PERCFNT)                  45.4        44.5      42.6                 34.1                    36.5
ACRICULTURE (07RCENT)             83.0        ,9.O      75.0                 78.4                    54.3
LSDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 9.0        11.0      13.0                  9.2                    17.7
PIRtICIP&TLOM MeL (PERCEEt)
TOTAL                               44.3        43.7      41.1                 *1.4                    37.0
MALE                                5l.9        49.8      48.0                 53.9                    46.§
1I.'SALE                            41.2        38.0      34.5                 29.1                    27.2
ICOIOlIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.2                   1.2                    1.3
ZUCCO£ DISTRIBUTION
PERCLEH  OF PRIVATE INCI2IE
LUCRiVED BY
UKGESt 5 PERCEhT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..
LICK1EST 20 PERCENT OF i(OUSEilOLS    ..        ..        ..
LWSRts 20 PERCENT OF HO3SEOLCS      ..          ..
LOiST 40 PERCEN.Y OF !MOUSEaOLDS    ..          ..        ..                    ..
POVERTY TARCET CRGRO'S
1S3T-U1AJ ABSc3LU7[4 POV£ETY TNCON!
LIVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
D.AN             '                  ,.          ..        ..                 134.3                  507.0
IRAL                                ..          ..       0.0/.               82.9                   200.6
9SURNATf0 RELATIVE POVERTY tNCOFC
IVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
RIA:4                               ..          ..      26.0/. 0.4                                  523.
R- L                                ..          ..      43.07;                 0.4                  203.6
ESTLYMAED POP'JLATION BeLW APSOLUWT
rOVELT% I.CCKE ' LVEL (PERCW)
URI                                 .. L.                 ..                 39.3
UUR.                                ..          ..      40.0/a               89.0
Not available
Not applicable.
The Stoop swer g,£ tor *Ach Indicator ar- pcpul&ttoEa-vw1htad arltt-tic eansn. Cow.rag   t of cnocre,
_cn  tbe indicators 4.per.o   on a*atlauiIty of ica *U4 Is cat %.01ore.
,   Unless e'horvise rt. 4taE for 1960 retor to any year betwan 1959 and 1961  for 1970, bet..en 1%9
and l:;:. andi for fcst ArCon' Ltleaste, bec.q  iBIN aN  1960.
Le   191Ltd 1 M?; 8 /  1175% /t 1%62z !I 1974.
Nfo. 1962



34 -ANNEX TA
Page 7 of 7
DETtPLTgdOli OP SOCI,A, iftDtldToO
4-aes   Althoogh the data are dra   froe sorcs            -enraly jodged cit  -tst-thorittieeandeeihl,ift bad also be cord tbha  they  ay ntb  ine--
nationally coparble heos f ie lack of stndardized defInitions and concepts used by different counrie  toclici                              - h  data.  fT. d.-t  r,  oe
thls .asfl to descibe orders of eagnicode, Indicate tr-de. and caaceie                  -etin  eor diffencsbeen onti.
The refeence grops ore  1) the  -aeoutry group of ole subject cosocry sea f)a countryl group nieb so-ra  highee a-erge   oos  than its orsn-y groap
of  hesobecro~tr.   ncet  oe  ig  Itrm  li fpoter    ropahere 'Siddle Inra-  Norh Afli-a aod  tiddla ias" is chose  brest  ofereI
oci -ouc.ro1finte    I.,i th -cf--or  group dot- h            "crge        Ir pango  etighted arcntcsaefor eah iodistar and stov  onlyie
andlsnotooifos.uuuclccsca   heeorcae   inaan- ueaiaoocfdioaronoir                                  tndoer           --or    oor.sedclnopnnieau
ARth (iho....ed sqis..)Ppitts e  oia.ed-ts.ura.aarrl-ouaio fnt.
eT-al - Total suface aena o~i I-Iad uraa and inland a r;17  dat.ohe.  i  rara                                         - diidd by -.nsl  re- nln   uhe-ffrsi-ltd
ag 1uotura   E-fsi-at  of agiclualae  usd  tsaa Iy t persne_                  la_iihl  i  public deidd priut  goehe.i                        d  ynin-sdpasirl  odre
fop caps,  asturs. naket  nd kitchen gardens or to lie  fallos; 1979 data              bailtt oncntr.   honptl-s te   sslsmnspeenol   nfe
hratleston  pbysfcie.  fstb1lesetsprobio  prnpabyoso
dripff0  dOld (155)- mypercap ia  an iaieaiourretsorer pboe. ca-  dai cre  re nt lo laed.    ura  hositas. hsreer.  ucide-       heli
colredhy  ameconrruoo   ethd a  bod dnt  tla  (173-d bsis; IhO,erdoedtaiusnerananreeaeetlpstafeaby    pbslnao  hatby 
1970.PE n  bedsT data.                                                                            seia   tsoab   ure   ieie   t.f hubffrI-aietyum
dy       -fid         2-7                                           _~~~~~~~~~~~~~etaead  prnid  alitdRaoeofsdia  faiite.    a  sais-
frehspd      i  dIndd b   h  nse o=' -f bds.           h-ii (b,b
data    .  i..             .   q.   :          -     !-.d9thireno-ge- Slo  of osehai    IeeoLspa houPmeho df  -dtotl,1 urban  and-uo
ira  Pplain  peno  o   atl  -   ttofars -               na' total 19p70  ton                    A boa1e79d conis-disnfa  eIpo   t dlrdol  otoshrdi-                a    uao
omeg ccarlr; 165  19g.  nd1967 dta                                                  tir boosr196d  7cr70.elotl19d purposes
Pooaba   rjncasuoegnntro  rrospota-fclobs.nradhoergce
Porciclco  o res  lotf  - Crrentpopultion   rojetionst. u..hsd  nA"s eeo  heroats pe  rasIcalhma.  n  eurl  ccpie -cnn nt   rurai
Projecion - poraotre  fo   oclr  rtscnen  o   he   eeoaon                                     ncoIrd  prts
fogi- lIf  ruetcp  rbrhicraigo2bcutr1aprcabainme                                          dcot A-      eteih-pecet  f  eef-no --I             Ioto  urban , sod durs   in
tnneh. an  fenele  lfo rapeoooch otallinitg  u  77.) prrs.  fIr pra-         lornnt lanaI  aniliogsatch elecricity  1  lining qOrterd         a
ne  fpir it-y trends for p   H---n  po-ose.                                                                 'Yutdielleilto
Seninryrn-ana   -inastnioryppLana   tee  s  obten   inePrsoyucan     tnl,soeen e1isdan   pnl,siran   tsi
Ia  he  ea  150.andtheroe o  dnie o  frtiit  rote enrrlc-                            eeeay  school  t-- ta     I, soeod fr-Ie   Coptrdsaon;rnodr
meat lenei.hn                                                                         ed..acIoroIrsa   ns   oryaso   prndpiayierri
Tea  sat oerycoplaio  isrecho  -Ti "yar    "ie  o-- loosiy paoaton                  poie    ess. ctoa,o   ens   cbiglaro  osfrpp
sloe aill beceacied.                                                nooally o~~~~~f 12 to 17    -te ' of ate  io trds-      orssaegeeal
only; 1960, 1070 and 1979daro.fillil-t-acherirati  - piryacnendy-fu    sdnteroIlenl
Popolaico Ae Stetitre ipeoenf-  Ihld  Th  15-14 rhea-s    ... ......g.g 70-pler  an.                  onnd.         lrle diidd  by-l .t    -P-d of tebeminth
-- po -sf  andreipd-65lete-tdurefas  ereeagp frid-eo    ,pJ-,r,epedig  enls
.ain;lf. 19b  .au i-        dta                                                        Ool  preedacn.. rot  feen 7              --- trtaots  Cob  torea  and  nite
Parlaia  do...ot  (erent -Ifa-dn-o gasb  atn  t  rin  ap-                                    sntdefin
lanon   fc  15060.190-0-ted-9--d.hsfen-                                                             r  ard fprt                 Itndp -h-aiaf    Paeage  ossdasnis  gsa
elddie  hos  r              'nuadf -.. dooual%- lin   biri. e  taee  of nb.d-p-e orose sin  les t~.horegnproa   t oe   aoat                                      rre   e
paIysia9ian   1960.- less, ad 1900 data.ailifr...e.rle
Crdetet  lob  (ernhoend    -  Chasl deatb0e1 py-nasan)            o  nid 5ea                  Radiol  .ecedoere         I.pee  thsa dinsaidnd -, Abll ye   f  aen f      ac radioI
popultion;1965.le-s  and 190r5  Ida,                                                      brod-ass a.e...         polc  erthusndof-aurin;e--oesan
tl.licy roe;1e960         lept  nramsedo   i   95  1977. aud 1980.                             east  dongre  ablihe--"       an.g
PavL.iy    Gtt Pi tenico-it.eeoars. denual  (t.oIsande   -      .Ano .one  ofsnpos            T  foceners(peidboaa-   popiaianf -dIt  Iblreenner  fcr beodcaste
ralby Plotg-or  fpscan  at?O sorid ec7amof -penetaooftrredi                                                  -gaere  adInf rrooe  engiscran leo of TV set  eas  .leffc.
PyIP 0  95.dT5rtbe eidaiy"  f ic apeashtPlas -furndmessnee-.,    ~
indt of  oodpradtnit ye  Capta  1969si-CD)    todc o  percapta snoai          CInma hnua  itnedate p   Cepta  or Ten -londy00nbananhn-o
in. anCalodardesbais                       poitecee     ntvar  gode l..sgrarnd  soI                             ( uIts.21f~                               f- -            h_i
instead ad tugarl eblob art edibir sod c..ontais o...utbiintsl(e.g..fcoffee.aod
naioar     Ierg  praId-t  r  rienegis  lef-b,  95.  aed190  da-ita.                         Ina       orPee-nosns --tnroitnl    cis ros   eidn
Pernait  onr   o  calarir   f        --cnE- ofreguirenc19f0-  1970ored true.                    arme  focead  nelyd  a   eldigioeers   tdet,m
"trY   oqllu  of net toad As.ppIbe   oialei(onrypesptactrn p.p.i.tdan o-all agee.int i                                                           Jioo    ocol     cutie   r
expots,andb,  uh-gn le stock   fe  suplIesetaeala    Ifed  oeeidsfo eprcn  In-rsl   ao   oc   spereg   fnrllbrfre
quni  r   sd- ia  odpocsig  and 1    icseey   to dih. iutond-.eie-                      OnclooIecn       sbrfrei   oee.feStr.  huntig Jan
soI _nr  eeotdbyPdhtd  npyiloia   sd  far  aril anl-fioirgs prcetag  of  ota  laoP                                                        oo;16.190adl                  aa
hose fl lntl191f-6.d  17   n   1977 da11ne                                                 le--gs.. 1970 an. - d   y90  at.   -nigdi.
pusepr Peo  adaibIgeFnai  he ro6t                19a 0 prti.d 198 a .te nad               reflecting age-set, .t....udn of t~hhe popllahni,adbgtm   rd
Peeldfood  urney  19616 -, 170 ad -177dto.p,dI.to..be patal-leben f 90oene.                                                    ...d,t
Per cpitaernion e inyfo o- isal on -pulse    P onir  ply af  toaEd. dPe-)-F-   .~.  fl.I                                                                   
rio   rm   esl  an dPulets rs     peroa; lhl    i 197  Ye 97   at.                ItC-t tingir
age0rvy  -    d yar, no . uideen In this ate grao, for taut d.ne,-Ing noun-             9       pecet. -nbst1  penn,  ors  55b pe 96s  an  pors  td.eret
grits dat  deIno  from lIfe tabes 1960  1970 and60(0  ata.of 0hosehdds
atibth;,pl 1960.            .   .  -p'   " 19.fdan  1900  ats.bso  shooy  be- -nepre d nith  oeierhe a1io
qIato   -arait  Rate Iee  -hsnd)   usuald b DAtb  a-ld ofann  order oepea                       e...e toso.Ifn  Poner1y -Innm  isnel (0$ eeie~ rite   g- urbn  nd  url -
ofag fenhos6a0 ln   birsha; 1960  1900 a-nd 198  data.0  1O0heo                                         d9loteIt paeeytoae  enli   then  .o.m d edIbn an  itch.n a --ema
duce  no  I-f iftee (p..e.  of proalatlee  - tto,  rbn, an __ro  f Stos                       nr ininai  adqut  dieplnsetil0-foneiemtsont
eates .sb.s that fra   ynm ttd b -ehde, spetg.  sod  saM nitary soils) ao                  gua  relat"ive" ponern    - ia ie Ife is ae-ebir-d- ad aedg  per unil
do sob hare  o spend a dipeopartiaso " pare of . the dp y Is   -dn g   Ie-          pear
absd aeiae ha sad `dip       ('mi oth ondeteo  t       d-tsth, of he-as b  inmeembIfa
and   P1~y-. smeattbtss-hen h   psiemator thin am  of. pin p dos-te 
Peeisnos per fieriit-PooaisdnIe   pembro   raisieg                           g p -s-           5      ..esomle aset g0ogrl-rise-  Diefeiam
oEATHs    ulfe     a     if.diac l etta            70 at dai 19sin  loeel,                              . heseolo anlysi  sod  prssoset  Osac4                               e
Porala"tttnt Ortof Pses- - PApalanio  diOe  bY-- osIs  of. pOaERiY TgRfEapC19Up
tbals ca  fesa'la  7  " gtadats   rso .                                                     Thss.ssfeess.  eaeiaegmasotsa
essesta~~~~~~~~ asohilicties..  ._Y..                                                                          ..



-35                              AMEX 1B
Page I. of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981 (P)              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.    %         1970-75    1975-80    1980    1981 (P)
GNP at Market Prices           1005.6    100.0         0.Q9L!1     3.8-/    1.81'    6.7
Gross Domestic Investment       178.0      17.7        6.6        12.1     -4.2       4.5
Gross National Savings           95.9       9.5
Current Account Balance         -82.1      -8.2
Exports of Goods, NFS            82.2       8.2        3.7        -5.7    -33.5      26.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           206.6      20.5        8.0         5.7    -13.2      16.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added
US$ Mln.       %
Agriculture                                  492.0        51.1
Industry                                     141.4        14.7
Services                                     247.3        25.7
Other 2/                                      82.2         8.5
TOTAL                    962.9      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                              Central Government -
(BuF Million)    Percent of GDP
1980           1980   1976-78
Current Receipts                            12,715.6          14.3      14.8
Current Expenditure                         10,848.2          12.2      11.2
Current Surplus                              1,867.4           2.1       3.6
Capital Expenditures                         7,736.0           8.7       8.0
External Assistance (net)                    3,695.0           4.6       3.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                    1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980
(Million BuF outstanding at end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       3544.4   5220.9   8233.2   9411.2   11452.7 10619.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                1271.6   1125.0    270.8   1660.8    4150.4  4177.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                997.0   1532.2   1886.9   4491.3    6220.4  6864.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi as % of GDP                   10.8      13.2      16.8      17.0      16.1    13.3
General Price Index (1970=100)               153.1    163.6    174.6    216.4        272.1   310.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           15.8       6.8       6.7     23.9       25.7    14.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                  41.7    -11.5    -75.9    513.3        149.9      0.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                -60.3      53.7      23.1    138.0       38.5    10.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered,
1/    Growth rates calculated on the basis of GDP at factor cost.
2/    Net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/    Consolidated statemuent of Government finances.
(P)   Preliminary



- 36 -                              ANNEX 1B
Page 2 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
SALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1979-81)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
(Millions US Dollars)                               US$ Mln    %
Export of Goods  NFS    96.3    71.4   111.9    78.9    82.2    Coffee                   71.1    89.4
Imports of Goods, NFS   94.7   123.4   192.9   206.6   206.6    Cotton                    1.8      2.3
Resource Gap                                                         Skins                0.7      0.9
(deficit) = -)           1.6   -52.0   -81.0  -127.7  -124.4    Tea                     1.8      2.2
Interest Payments
(net)                  -0.6    -0.9    -1.3    -1.9    -1.6
Workers' Remittances        ..       ..
Other Factor Payments
(net)                 -13.1   -13.6    -8.9    -6.9    -5.2    All other
Net transfers             29.0    32.7    34.3    52.1    49.1          commodities       4.2      5.2
Balance on Current
Account                 16.9   -33.8   -56.8   -84.4   -82.1         Total             79.6   100.0
Direct Foreign                                                       EXTERNAL DEBT,
Investment               -       -        -        0.6      0.5       DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements           18.9    20.2    41.7    42.6    25.5                                 US$ Mln
Amortization             3.5     2.6      2.7      3.6      3.0    Public Debt, incl.
Subtotal                15.4    17.6    39.0    39.0    22.5         guaranteed                153.6
Capital Grants            13.8    20.9    25.4    35.1    49.1    Non-Guaranteed Private
Other Capital (net)       -0.3   -24.6    -4.3       8.3   -17.0        Debt                       ..
Other items n.e.i.         0.2      3.2    -6.7      8.9   -19.0    Total outstanding and
Increase in                                                            Disbursed
Reserves (-)          -46.1    16.7       3.4    -7.5   -46.0
Gross Reserves                                                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 /3
(end year) 1/          95.9    83.4    98.9   104.6    60.5 /2
Net Reserves (end                                                                                   %
year)                   86.0    69.3    65.9    73.4    27.4    Public Debt incl.
guaranteed                 5.6
Non-Guaranteed Private
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Debt
Imports of which:                                                  Total outstanding and
Petroleum             5.6      6.7    12.6    25.5    31.7         disbursed
Exports of which:
Petroleum              -        -        -        -       -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                     IDA LENDING, MARCH 31, 1983
Through Feb. 1973                Since May 3, 1976                                           IBRD  IDA
US$1.00  -  BuF 87.5             US$1.00  -  BuF 90.0                (Amount expressed in US$
BuF 100  -  US$1.14              BuF 100  -  US$1.11                   Million)
Outstanding and
From March 1973 to May 2, 1976                                           Disbursed            -   71.6
US$1.00  - BuF 78.75                                                 Undisbursed               -   84.6
BuF 100  - US$ 1.27                                                  Outstanding including
Undisbursed            - 156.2
1/  Central Bank
2/ November 30, 1981
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Export of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
.. not available -   . non applicable



ANNEX IB
-                                    Page 3 of 6
RWANDA
ECONOiiIC INDICLTORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 (1): US $239
GROSS ZC',ESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981 (2)                         ANNUAL PRATE OF GROWTH
*%, constant 1976 pric:sJ (3)
US $ Mln.       X                      1977-81
GDP at 1arket Prices           1,257.8        100.0                     5.8
Gross Domestic Investment        282.4         22.5                     8.0
Gross National Saving            109.8          8.7
Current Account Balance         -172.6        -13.7
Export of Goods, NTS             150.9         12.0                    -3.9
Import of Goods, NFS             332.0         26.4                     5.0
GOVERNTMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(RwF Ml.)         Zof GDP
1981 (2)    1901 (2)       1972
Current Receipts                      14,827         12.7           8.3
Current Expenditure                   14,040         12.0          10.7
Current Surpluc                          787          0.7          -2.4
Capital Expenditures                  *2,562           2.2          1.2
Overall surplus (4)                   -2,241          -1.9         -3.0
(1)  The Per Capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the World
Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
(2)  Provisional.
(3)  Trend rates based on least squares estimates.
(9'  The ovetall surplus is not equal to the difference between current savings and
ievelopment expenditures because the consolidated surplus or deficit of thle
Creasury special accounts is not shown in this table.
not available,
iot applicable.



- 38 -
ANNEX IB
Page 4 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
MONEY, CREDIT and PRTCES                     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
(Million RwF outstanding end period)
Hroney Supply  1)                           10,175   11,204   14,185   15,331   16,331
Bank Credit to Government (net)                363        23   -1,350   -2,929   -1,939
Bank Credit to Private Sector                4,389    5,134    4,563    6,515    8,171
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Mone'! as % of GDP                          14.0      13.8      14.6      14.4      14.2
Consumer Price Index (Jan-Mar 1976=100) i16.7    131.3    152.1    163.2    173.8
Annuial percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                        14.5      12.5      15.8       7.3       6.5
Bain  credit to GovernTment  (net)         -77.4    -93.7  -5970.0   -117.0         33.8
Bank credit to PrJvate Sector               60.1      17.0    -11.1       42.8      25.4
BALANCE OF PA'RENTS                                       ZERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-81)
1978   1979   1980   1981(2)               US$Mln.       X
(US$ Millions)
Exports of Goods, NFS       126    227    166    161   Coffee            79.s       54.8
Imports of Goods, NT'FS    -261   -309   -323   -332   Tea               10.6        8.0
Resource Gap (deficit=-) -136    -82   -157   -181   Cassiterite   17.6             13.1
Wolfram         5.5        4.1
Factor Services (net)        -5     -2       5      12   Pyrethrum        1.3        0.9
h'-et transfcrs              -       5      -1      -3   Cinchona         J..9       1.5
Balance on Cur. Account  -141    -79   -155   -172   Other               23.9       17.6
Total      l1:0T       100.0
Official Grants              95    128    106    106
Direct Private For.Invest. 10        13     17      19
Net MLT LMans                19     40      33      25   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
O(iaer M & LT (net)           1    -22      -2       2                                     US$Mln.
Net Short-Term Capital       21    -10      22     20   Public Debt, incl.guaranteed   172.1
Capital Flows, NEI           -6       1     -2     -9   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors & Omissions            5     -1      -6       1   Total cutstanding & disbursed
Increase in Reserves C-)   -4    -70    -13        -1
Gross Reserves (end year) 100.0  177.6  208.8  199.2   NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1981 (4)
Petroleum imports (3)        17.0   23.,0   30.0  32.0                                         %
Pettoleum Exports (3)         .       .      .        .    Public Debt incl. guaranteed   1.8
Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & disbursed
RATE OF EXCAiNGE
Annual             End             IDA LENDING,(July 31,1982)(US$M1n.)
Averages          Period                                            IDA.
1974-80        Sept. 1982         Outstanding & Disbursed        83.5
US$  1.00 = RWF           92.84           92.84             Undisbursed                  100.2
-RwF  1.00 - US$            0.011           0.011           Oultstanding incl.
Undisbursed                  183.7
1) Includes Money and Quasi money
2) Provisional.
3) Crude and derivatives.
4) Debt Service net of interest earned on foreIgn exchange reserves as a
percentage of Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
-- less than US $ 0.5 million



ANNEX IB
Page 5 of 5
- 39 -
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORt
NATIONAL ACCOULNTS
Amount
(million USS at      Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)          Annual Growth Rates (I)
current prices)               (at current prices)              (at constant 1970 prices)
1981                           1981                      1979       1980       1981
21
Gross Domestic Product-/         5,384.1                          100.0                      0.3        2.4        2.4
(GDP Conmercialized)            (4,222.5)                         (78.4)                    (0.2)      (2.4)       2.4
Agriculture                    1,722.2                           32.0                      3.1        2.8        2.7
Industry (incl. mining)        1,269.5                           23.6                     -6.1        4.4        4.8
Services                       2,183.7                           40.6                      4.6        0.1       0.4
Consumption                      4,717.3                           87.6                     -3.6        7.2        6.8
Gross Investment                 1,361.2                           25.3                      56.8     172.4      -49.8
Exports of GNFS          ~'966,7                                   18.0                    -21.0       23.8     -44.6
I=ports of GNFS    -             1.661.1                           30.9                       7.7     222.0     -62.8
Gross national savings             347.1                             6.4                      6.0     -41.3      57.3
PUBLIC FI:CE-  Central Government)                    (million Z)                          X of GDP
A c t u a 1                    (at market prices)
1979         1980          1981           1979        1981
Current revenues                           1,944.4      3,777.4       4,781.5          17.5         20.3
Current expenditures                       2,391.7      3,850.4       5,964.0          21.5         25.3
C-nrrent deficit                             447.3          73.0      1,182.5           4.0          5.0
Capital expenditures                         129.3        246.4         539.7           1.2          2.3
Overall deficit                              576.6        319.4       1,722.2           5.2          7.3
WSEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                   1979            1980                1981
(million   outstanding end pqriod)
Money and Quasi Money                                   2,084.9          3,367.3             4,644.9
Ban'k Credit to Public Sectcr                           2,062.2          2,329.4             3,783.6
Lank Credit to Private Sector                             878.7          1,014.3             1,342.4
(Percentages or index Numbers)
money and Quasi Money (as I of GD?.- market prices)         18.8             19.6               19.7
Corsumer Price Inde.x (1975 * 100)4/                      912.7          1,313.3             1,813.1
Annial percentage changes in
Consumer Price Incex                                    101.3             43.9                38.1
Bhnk Credit to Puhblic Sector                              30.7             13.0                62.4
Lank Credit to Private Sector                              37.1             15.4                32.3
NnTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchasje rate prevailing during the period covered.
1981 figures are preliminary.
2/    At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and vill
aot add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3t    Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foreign sources.
if    Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
December 17, 1982



ANNEX IB
Page 6 of 6
- 40 -
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYXENTS                               1979         1980         1981
(Million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                 1,9r4.6       2,088.4      1,589.5
of which:  Mcrchandise F.O.B.              (1,834.0)    (1,954.9)   (1,494.0)
Imports of goods and services                 1,967.3      2,219.9       2,196.7
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.              (1,106.9)   (1,201.3)   (1,096.6)
Private transfers (net)                         -96.6         -74.9        -82.5
Current Account Balance                         -149.3       -206.4       -689.7
Official grants (net)                            164.1        208.2        188.7
Public Capital (net)                            -49.6 -       -23.8       -159.2
Private Capital (net) and errors and
omissions                                    -220.4        -280.1        -66.0
SDR Allocation                                    20.4         20.8         18.9
Other Financing                                  282.8        265.5        490.5
Change in net international reserves            -48.0         -31.8        216.8
(-   increases)
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                      £ 1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                    £ 1.00 - SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1961                      Z 1.00 - SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                  B 1.00 - SDR 0.158
AVERAGE EXCHANGE PATES:
1978                                                 US$ 1.00 - E 0.836
1979                                                 US$ 1.00 - 9 1.729
1980                                                 USS 1.00 - E 2.800
1981                                                 US$ 1.00 - E 4.384
MERCqAINDISE EXPORTS (1981)                          million US$            z
Minerals and Petroleum                               1,270.7              85.1
Others                                                 222.9              14.9
Total                                              Y,493.6             100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1981 -/                      (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                        4,254.0
Non-Guaranteed                                         350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                        4,604.0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981                            A A
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                           14.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                              3.3
ISRDJIDA LENDING                                          Million  US$
(A   of Septembev 30, 1982)                          IBRD                 IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                              76.94              200.31
Undisbursed                                           0                 237.67
Outstanding, incl. Umdisbursed                       76.94              437.98
1/  Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency assistance, and
profit on gold sales.
2/ Preliminary estimates.
3/  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
Represents actual payments.
December 17, 1982



- 41 -                            ANNEX  IIA
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount
US$ million
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose             Bank    IDA 2/       Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and seven credits fully disbursed             4.8      25.07
626 BU            1976    Burundi       Fisheries
Development       -        6.00         2.10
731 BU            1978    Burundi       Development
Bank              -        3.40         0.32
773 BU            1978    Burundi       Second Highway
Project           -       14.00         0.04
917 BU            1979    Burundi       Second Technical
Assistance        -        2.50         0.20
918 BU            1979    Burundi       Forestry            -       4.30         1.90
976 BU            1980    Burundi       Second Education  -        15.00         6.12
1049 BU           1980    Burundi       Urban
Development       -       15.00        10.76
1058 BU           1980    Burundi       Telecommunica-
tions             -        7.70        6.40
1132 BU           1981    Burundi       Third Highway      -       22.11 /4    17.225/
1154 BU           1981    Burundi       Nickel
Exploration       -       3.56 /4       2.86-
1165 BU           1981    Burundi       Kirimiro Rural                           6    /
Development       -       17.47 /4    16.71-
1192 BU 3/        1981    Burundi       Integrated Rural
Dev. Ngozi III   -         2.86 /4    15.32-V
1230 BU           1982    Burundi       Local Construc-
tion Industry    -        4.96  /4    4.6351/
Total             4.8    156.39        84.58
Of which has
beer. paid       4.8        .43
Total now held   0.0    156.14
Total undis-
bursed           0.0     84.58
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the Lake port
of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium has
been fully repaid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Computed at March 31, 1983 rate of 1.07367
5/ Computed at market rate on dates of disbursement.



- 42 -                          ANNEX II A
Page 2 of 7
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1983)
Type of                  Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor            Business                 Loan    Equity    Total
1981     Verreries du       Glass container
Burundi                                     4.8      0.8        5.6
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                          4.8       0.8        5.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                    4.8       0.8        5.6
Total undisbursed                                    2.5       0.1        2.6
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(as of March 31, 1983)
Credit No. 626-BU      Fisheries Development Project:  US$6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: February 22,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project is designed to increase the production
of fish through the provision of training, equipment and materials to
fishermen and to improve the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The
project also includes financing for the preparation of rural development
plans for the coastal region along Lake Tanganyika and the implementation
of pilot development activities. The project is cofinanced by a US$1.2
million loan from the Abu-Dhabi Fund.  Project implementation was initially
very slow because of problems encountered in the recruitment of both
expatriate technical assistants and their national counterparts and in the
procurement of goods, and subsequently in project management.  About 200                    a
metallic and wooden boats have been made available to fishermen, and an
experiment to use low quality local wood to produce longer lasting and
cheaper laminated wood boats met with some success.  Project management
remained however seriously deficient through Project implementation and
SUPOBU's activities related to commercialization and marketing of fish have
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered, and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and
with the understanding they do not purport to present a balance
evaluation of strenghs and weaknesses in project execution.



- 43-
ANNEX II A
Page 3 of 7
been unsuccessful, causing severe financial strains on the Company and on
the Government budget. It was therefore decided not to extend the Closing
Date. The Credit accounts will be closed when the last authorized
disbursements have been made.
Credit No. 731-BU       Development Bank Project:  US$3.4 million
September 30, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 27,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project aims at providing funds for investment in
medium size productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National
Economic Development Bank (BNDE). Implementation of the Project started
slowly. Following, however, an amendment of the Credit Agreement of June
1980, which allows the use of up to US$1 million for financing loans to
small-scale enterprises, project execution has accelerated and the Credit
is almost totally committed. The recent creation of a second development
financing institution, the Societe Burundaise de Financement (SBF), raises
serious concerns regarding BNDE's future operations as investment
opportunities do not justify two major term lending institutions in the
country.
Credit No. 773-BU       Second Highway Project:  US$14.0 million of
March 29, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  July 27, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project finances the paving of a major nation
road, Bujumbura-Rugombo (65 km), the start-up phase of an improvement
program for selected secondary and tertiary roads and bridges, the
construction of a new central laboratory, the strengthening of the
mechanized maintenance brigade and the provision of technical assistance
and equipment for the ongoing maintenance program. Project implementation,
in particular major road construction, was delayed by the lack of cement
and fuel supplies due to disruption in international transport through
neighbouring countries during the first half of 1979. Since then, works
have resumed satisfactorily. Because of these interruptions, and of higher
than expected price increases, the project is encountering high cost
overruns. The improvement program for selected secondary roads is
completed. The construction of a new central laboratory is nearly
completed. The mechanized maintenance brigate is fully operational and has
received all the equipment financed under the project. The technical
assistance component is, in general, meeting its objectives; however,
difficulties in recruiting local counterparts and in retaining them in
service once trained have not made possible the reduction of expatriate
technical assistance as planned. Construction works are nearly completed,
and funds are almost totally disbursed. Therefore the Closing Date was not
extended and the Credit accounts will be closed when the last disbursements
have been made.



ANNEX II A
Page 4 of 7
Credit No. 917-BU       Second Technical Assistance Project; US$2.5 million
of June 1, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 27,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This project provides for the further strengthening
of the Government's planning mechanism and its project preparation and
implementation capacity. It includes continuation of the technical
assistance to macroeconomic planning at the Ministry of Planning, provision
of experts to the planning divisions of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Industry and financing of feasibility studies. The credit is also
financing consultant services to support the Government's effort in
restructuring public enterprises. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 918-BU      Forestry Project:  US$4.3 million and US$1.2 million
EEC Special Action Credit of June 1, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project assists the Government in initiating the
first stage for a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and
plantations to supply fuel wood, building poles and timber and to establish
long-term wood production and marketing policies. The project includes the
establishment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus
plantation and a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided
by France) and financing of energy studies. The project is progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 976-BU      Second Education Project:  US$15.0 million of
April 23, 1980; Effectiveness Date: July 21, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project assists the Government in training middle
level technicians and skilled workers in industrial trades and
secretarial-administrative skills. It includes the construction,
furnishing and equipping of two new boarding technical schools, a Mechanics
Department and a Typist and Bookkeeper Training Department in two existing
schools and staff housing. Implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
The construction of the two new shool departments has been completed ahead
of schedule, and the other two major schools will be completed on
schedule. The Project Unit is now making a survey of secondary school
maintenance and equipment needs. The Planning Unit and the Technical
Education Bureau have been strengthened. The Planning Unit is preparing a
school map and the Technical Education Bureau is redesigning the curriculum
of technical schools in cooperation with employers to make training more
practical. As the cost of the project is expected to to be lower than
estimated, in part because of early completion of works, the Development
Credit Agreement was amended to finance the construction and equipment of
twenty five of the fifty MLCs which could not be financed under the First
Project because of cost overruns and the maintenance and improvement of
five secondary schools.



-45 -                          ANNEX II A
Page 5 of 7
Credit No. 1049-BU    Urban Development Project:  US$15.0 million of
June 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 31, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project seeks to redress the most urgent
infrastructure deficiencies in Bujumbura neighborhoods while laying the
foundation on for more efficient future growth. Essential improvements to
street, drainage, water and public lighting networks will improve living
conditions for 118,000 persons in Bujumbura, or 85% of the population.
Serviced plots and loans for house construction will be made available to
families between the 20th and 65th income percentiles. An artisan
promotion component is providing technical and financial assistance to
carpenters and metalworkers, the latter in conjunction with an energy
assistance program designed to improve the efficiency of charcoal-burning
metal stoves. The capacity of the Bujumbura municipality to collect
garbage and maintain streets, drains, and public buildings is being
strengthened. The pace of execution slowed in early 1982, but is now
picking up following agreements reached with new project management on
house construction at Kwijabe and solid waste collection. Street and
drainage improvements have been completed in the first neighborhood and at
the Kwijabe serviced site. Primary school construction and renovation and
the operation of municipal building and street maintenance units are
scheduled to start shortly. An urban tax designed to recover the cost of
operating, maintaining and replacing municipal services networks was
rejected by the,National Assembly last Fall. The Bank has agreed to extend
the reimburseme,nt of certain operating expenditures, originally provided
until December 31, 1983, to allow the Government additional time to set up
cost recovery mechanisms.
Credit No. 1058-BU    Telecommunications Project:  US$7.7 million of
August 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: January 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 10, 1985
The project is a major component of the country's
1980-84 investment program for telecommunications. It aims at improving
the quality of existing services while extending the coverage to rural
areas and segments of the population presently unserved. It would also
strengthen the management of telecommunications parastatal company (ONATEL)
in order to establish the company as a financially autonomous entity, and
provide assistance for staff training. ONATEL started functioning in
January 1980 and is developing satisfactorily. The project became
effective on January 7, 1981 and is progressing satisfactorily. The
estimated project cost has increased by about 38% over appraisal estimates
(December 1979) due to higher bid unit prices and to the need to increase
the quantity of some project items as demand for services has increased
beyond expectations. The Government is seeking external financing to meet
this cost overrun.



- 46 -
ANNEX II A
Page 6 of 7
Credit No. 1132-BU    Third Highway Project:  US$25.0 million of
December 17, 1981. Effectiveness Date:
March 17, 1982. Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The main objectives of the Third Highway Project are:
(i) to contribute to reduce the country external transport constraints by
assisting the Ministry of Transport in establishing a planning capacity and
by financing the construction of a paved road section which would be part
of a variant "southern route" linking the capital of Bujumbura to the
Dar-es-Salaam railway at Isaka in Tanzania; and (ii) to improve the
national road network through construction of the same paved road section,
improvement of earth roads, and strengthening of maintenance activities.
Improvement works are progressing satisfactorily, and the contractor has
been selected for construction works which are scheduled to start in
February 1983. Construction works will cost about 24% more than estimated
at appraisal. As additional funds are expected to be provided for
equipment from the United Nations Capital Development Fund it is envisaged
to finance the increase in construction costs from funds no longer needed
for equipment under the IDA Credit.
Credit No. 1154-BU    Nickel Exploration Engineering Project:
US$4.0 million of July 15, 1981. Effectiveness Date:
August 31, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The objective of the proposed project is to develop
and analyze the basic data needed to reformulate the large scale Musongati
Nickel Development Project. The Credit for this project is considered as
the minimum investment required to bring the Musongati Project to a point
where both the Government and potential investors can make informed
decisions regarding the Project's viability, including whether or not to
proceed with a full feasibility study. The project includes the following
components: (i) nickel exploration; (ii) trial peat production; (iii)
engineering studies (high grade mineability, hydro-electric site, sulfur
sources, and process selection); (iv) overall review of the Musongati
Project viability and (v) management assistance. The project is cofinanced
by the Republic of Finland and UNDP. Project start-up was delayed because
of problems encountered in the selection of the management firm, and the
finalization of cofinancing arrangements. Implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1165-BU    Kirimiro Rural Development Project:  US$19.3 million
of December 17, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 2, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The objectives of the project, which is implemented
by the Regional Development Company of Kirimiro, are to assist smallholders
in the Kirimiro area to improve the productivity of coffee and foodcrop
cultivation; improve the quality of exported coffee and improve the rural



ANNEX II A
- 47 -                      Page 7 of 7
living conditions.  To reach these objectives, the proj_,i  includes the
following components: strengthening of extension services, afforestation
and erosion control measures, construction and equipping of twelve
handpulping centers and six coffee washing stations, improvement of the
road and water supply network, pilot activities and studies. The start-up
of the project was delayed by the dismissal by the Government of the
technical assistance team and of the Project Director. A new Project
Director has been appointed and a new technical assistance team has been
recruited.
Credit No. 1192-BU    Integrated Rural Development Ngozi III:  US$16.0
million of March 29, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (not
yet effective); Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The objective of the project, which is implemented by
the Regional Development Company of Buyenzi, is to improve the standard of
living and productivity of approximately 150 000 farmers in the Ngozi
area. Specifically, the project would include: erosion control and
reafforestation; cash crop improvement (coffee); construction of coffee
washing stations; food crop development (crop and seed protection);
livestock development; agricultural credit; marketing; provision of health
facilities; studies. The Project is cofinanced by the International Fund
for Agricultural Development and by the Kuwait Fund. The Credit is not yet
effective but start-up activities are financed from an advance under the
project preparation facility, and from revenues from coffee washing
operations.
Credit No. 1230-BU    Pilot project to assist the local construction
industry: US$5.2 million of June 1, 1982;
Effectivenesss Date: November 12, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
This pilot project aims at removing some of the
obstacles (obsolete construction standards, heavy dependence on imported
materials, lack of financial and technical support) to the development of
the local construction industry. The project includes the following
components: (a) at the sector level: (i) development of the lime and
brick production and assessment of the viability of developing other local
construction materials to reduce the country's high dependence on imports;
and (ii) assistance to the Ministry of Public Works Energy and MInes to
improve its capacity to supervise and administer government-financed
construction projects, and to update and improve the construction code, (b)
at the enterprise level: financial assistance to producers of local
construction materials and contractors through a line of credit made
available to the National Development Bank (BNDE), and technical assistance
provided by the Project Unit in coordination with BNDE. Implementation is
progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II B
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                      IDA   Undisbursed
((Six credits have been fully disbursed)                          47.70
567-RW          1975       Rwanda       Education                 6.38        2.06
655-RW          1977                    DFC I                     4.00        0.13
769-RW          1978                    Road Maintenance         15.00        2.01
896-RW          1979                    DFC II                    5.20        4.13
937-RW          1979                    Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        4.32
1039-RW          1980                    Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        15.06
1057-RW          1981                    Telecommunications        7.50        6.87
1126-RW          1981                    Coffee/Foodcrops         12.73 1/   10.64
1217-RW          1982                    Technical Assistance    4.64          4.61
1250-RW          1982                    Fifth Highway            25.13       25.05
1263-RW          1982                    Second Education          9.71        9.71
1283-RW          1982                    Phase II Bugesera/
Gisaka/Migongo          15.64        15.64
Total                                            186.38      IQ&i23
Principal Repaid         2.71
Total Held             183.67
V  Computed at March 31, 1983 rate of 1.07867.
Note: a) Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
b) US dollars amounts equivalent for IDA VI credits (expressed in SDRs) are
calculated at the rate as of February 28, 1983.



- 49 -                ANNEX II B
Page 2 of 5
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1983)
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
C. PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
As now constituted, the project includes construction, equipping and
furnishing of 250 primary-school workshops, a school-textbook printshop, and
an office building for the School Financing and Construction Services (SFCS)
as well as furnishing and equipping of the Rural Agricultural Training Center
of Gitarama. The project also provides technical assistance, vehicles and
operating expenses for the SFCS. The project has been hampered by implementa-
tion difficulties centering on two misprocurements (an amount of US$130,000
was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain construction materials; a
second amount of US$1,491,000 was cancelled due to misprocurement of paper).
Most of the 250 workshops are nearly completed. The lack of acceptable record
keeping, however, has impeded the processing of disbursement requests. There-
fore, a final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops, organized
by the Government (with IDA approval) was undertaken successfully in November
1981 with UNESCO assistance. Disbursements have resumed. The printshop is
now operational and construction of the office building for the SFCS completed.
Credit No. 656-RW      Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million Credit of August 20, 1976
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
services to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
still a demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices
for cinchona derivates, however, remained low during 1979 and 1980, and OCIR
(the implementing agency) had to reduce the farm gate price for cinchona bark
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



- 50 -
ANNEX II B
Page 3 of 5
and abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy. In September 1980 it was
decided to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in the Kirambo area, and
construction has since started and the factory is scheduled to be open in
early 1983. This should give Rwanda a stronger position in the future to
compete with cinchona derivates on the world market.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Credit
of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are performing satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of equipment is completed. On the suggestion of the Association, an
expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda for three weeks in June 1978
and recommended that one mechanized unit be replaced by one unit utilizing
labor intensive methods. Following the consultant's recommendation, the
Government has introduced labor-intensive methods for road maintenance.
Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation is now
at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US$5.0 million (which
is now about 90 percent committed) to finance BRD's foreign exchange require-
ments and (b) a feasibility study for the establishment of an auditing firm
in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Government has just finished reviewing the audit
study and its comments are currently under consideration by the Association.
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is the second phase of a long-term development program
for the Mutara region. It aims at developing techniques, procedures, and an
institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve the
production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive use of
available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and integrate
the project into the local administration. Settlement of cattle owners has
proceeded in an orderly way and pasture production has improved, but destocking
activities and credit recovery have been disappointing due to lack of clear
policies and enforcement mechanisms.



- 51 -
ANNEX II B
Page 4 of 5
Credit 1039-RW         Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term program to develop
the forestry resources of Rwanda and to strengthen the livestock industry.
Technical assistance personnel and key local staff have been recruited and
start-up activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 1057-RW         Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims at improving the quality of existing telecommuni-
cations services, while extending the coverage to geographical areas and
segments of the population which at present do not benefit from such
services. In addition to improving international and domestic telecommuni-
cations (telephone and telex) the project provides technical assistance and
training to the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications. The project is
cofinanced with FAC and CCCE (US$3.9 million equivalent) and CIDA (Can$4.95
million) and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 1126-RW        Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrops Project;
US$15.0 Million Credit of April 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at building up an effective extension service
which would assist farmers in increasing foodcrop and coffee production using
field-tested techniques and also helping OCIR-Cafe (the implementing agency)
improve its financial management. Technical assistance personnel and key
local staff have been recruited and start-up activities are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit 1217-RW         Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of April 5, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
November 22. 1982: Closinp Date: December 31. 1986.
The project aims at increasing Rwanda's absorptive capacity,
improving interministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring,
and strengthening the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN). The project credit
agreement was signed April 5, 1982. The Project Economist to be assigned
to the Programming Directorate in the MINIPLAN has been recruited and has been
at his post since mid-June 1982.



-52 -                           ANNEX II B
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1250-RW        Fifth Highway Project; US$25.9 Million Credit of
June 1, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: December 8, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The Project aims at fostering economic integration of the southwestern
region with the rest of the country, to facilitate agricultural development
in the region, and improve overall transport planning capacity. Its main
components are (a) construction and supervision of a paved road; (b) engineering
studies for restoration works on the Kigali-Gatuna road; (c) procurement of
materials and supplies for maintenance of the Kigali-Gatuna Road; and (d)
(d) technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works.
Credit 1263-RW        Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: April 13, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
The Project is to assist the government in meeting increasingly
acute shortages of qualified personnel in commerce, nursing and primary
school teachers. It includes the construction and equipping of: (a) an
expansion of a Commerce Training College; (b) a new nurses training school;
(c) two new Primary Teacher Training Colleges; and (d) two demonstration
schools. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is established and the
architect and accountant of the Project Unit have been employed.
Credit 1283-RW        Phase II Bugesera Gisaka Migongo Project;
US$16.3 Million Credit of September 28, 1982; Date
of Effectiveness: March 29, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
The Project is the second phase of a long term development program
for the Bugesera and Gisaka Migongo regions and aims at consolidating
action begun under the first project to develop essential infrastructure
and improve rural services in the communes. Project start-up activities
including the family planning component, are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 53 -                     ANNEX IIC
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ million
Number       Year      Borrower                    Bank         IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport       91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                          100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                   119.50         0.14
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II               26.00         1.21
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                21.00        18.95
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                  8.00         3.24
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00         0.42
710       1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                  10.00         0.20
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                     9.00         9.84
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                    20.00        10.09
916       1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00         6.01
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50         8.31
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00         9.43
1089       1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          21.79 5/      9.94 6/
1152       1981       ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu
Technical Assistance        2.59 5/      2.28 6/
1180       1982       ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization        24.38 5/    23.60 6/
1224       1982       ZAIRE       Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation             17.69 5/    17.59 6/
1241       1982       ZAIRE       Water Supply II             17.26 5/    16.82 6/
1244       1982       ZAIRE       Agriculture T.A.             4.85 5/    11.66 6/
1264       1982       ZAIRE       Second Cotton               10.57 5/    10.57 6/
1273       1982       ZAIRE       Sixth DFC                   20.92 5/    20.92 6/
1290       1983       ZAIRE       Highways V                  41.64 5/    41.64 6/
1325 4/    1983       ZAIRE       North East Rural Dev.       13.27 5/    13.27 6/
1335 4/    1983       ZAIRE       Ports Rehabilitation        24.92 5/    24.92 6/
1336       1983       ZAIRE       Gecamines TA                 7.01 5/      7.01 6/
Total (less cancellations):                       191.58      483.89       258.96
- of which has been repaid                     118.48         0.98
Total now outstanding:                            73.10       482.91       258.96
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, has closed with undisbursed balance
of US$80,000 which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has several withdrawal
applications pending which, when paid, will leave a balance of about
US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed but is not yet effective.
5/ Computed at the March 31, 1983 rate of 1.07867.
6/ Computed at market rate on dates of disbursement.



- 54 -
ANNEX IIC
Page 2 of 9
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                76.94      437.98
Total Undisbursed:                                0.0                  237.67
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                             Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year   Obligor                    Business        Loan  Equity   Total
1970    Societe Financiere de
Dgveloppement (SOFIDE)  DFC                 -    0.76      0.76
1979    Zaire Gulf Oil Company   Oil Company    2.50    -           2.50
1979    Zaire Petroleum Company  Oil Company    1.61    -           1.61
1983    Nord-Sud Industrie-
ROHSTOFF GMBH, for studies
on an aluminium project                  0.23    -         0.23
Total gross commitments                    4.34   0.76      5.10
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     2.88      -       2.88
Held by IFC                                1.46   0.76      2.22
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1983
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 30, 1983
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not purport
to present a balance evaluation of strenthgs and weknesses in project
execution.



- 55 -
ANNEX IIC
Page 3 of 9
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has im-
proved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved in
the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. While over-
all project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, extension of the Closing
Date is being considered to allow for some additional procurement of spare
parts.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices have been increased since 1981 in nominal terms. Efforts now
focus on converting Coton-Zaire from a public to a mixed-capital company, like
those that handle cotton promotion elsewhere in Zaire and which are to be
supported by IDA's Second Cotton Project (Cr. 1264-ZR). Continuity of effort
and support for area cotton farmers are at stake in view of the credit's end-
1982 closing date. Government is now negotiating with possible private sector
partners.
Credit 697-ZR          Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs.   Despite slow project start-up and continuing
constraints related to high rates of inflation, low prices for beef, late
receipt of government counterpart funds impressive results have been achieved.



- 56 -
ANNEX IIC
Page 4 of 9
They include: (i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension service; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets. Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on expansion of marketing.
Credit 710-ZR         Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank. In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects. The credit closed at end 1982 as scheduled.
Credit 796-ZR           Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the



ANNEX IIC
Page 5 of 9
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills until 1982. The second company has
placed equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting
and oil mill rehabilitation program. Cancellation of BADEA's $4.4 million credit
on August 10, 1982 will force a revision of cost estimates and the financing
plan. It may be possible to accomodate these without major disruptions as a
result of savings in oil-mill rehabilitation.
Credit 902-ZR          Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. The Project scope is being revised following the decision of the
Saudi/OPEC Funds to suspend disbursements. Postponement of the closing date
will be necessary because of delays in the effectiveness of the Credit.
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of June
14,1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980; Original
ClosingDate: December 31, 1982,  postponed to December 31,
1983;Cofinanced by the EEC Special Action Fund and the
SaudiFund for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries



- 58 -
ANNEX II C
Page 6 of 9
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/rehabilitation
program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully operational.
However fuel shortages in 1982 endangered seriously the execution of the program
and maintenance objectives for 1982 were not achieved. Solutions are largely in
place to overcome the problems created by the Saudi Fund's decision to suspend
disbursements on its remaining balance.
Credit 998-ZR:         Fifth DFC;  US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980;
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
As of September 30,1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component and US$1.6 million for the working
capital component . Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate
rapidly in the latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval
of sub-projects and the placement of orders. Comments on SOFIDE are reflected
under Credit 710-ZR.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing sec-
tor; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities. Project implementation is pro-
ceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems.  Maize
output increased by about 30,000 tons in the first agricultural year - far in
excess of projections; fertilizer and seed demand are very strong and credit re-
payments are good. The principal problem is weak Government budgetary support,
notably failure to provide PMKO, the implementing agency, with fertilizer as
agreed. PMKO also has personnel and procurement problems.



- 59 -
ANNEX IIC
Page 7 of 9
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date; May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project aims at increasing sugar production through the
rehabilitation and expansion of factory, field and transportation capacity and
also at promoting foodcrop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily; procurement and disbursement are well advanced. It is expected
that factory rehabilitation and expansion will be completed one year ahead of
schedule and field rehabilitation according to schedule; construction of housing
and offices is nearly completed. Foreign exchange allocations have been below
agreed levels and the Project entity has had to purchase foreign exchange on the
parallel market. Supervision missions have discussed the matter with Government
but have met with no success. However, Project implementation will not be
delayed by this problem.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit was declared effective on July 7, 1982. CODAIK, the
mixed capital development company has been established, technical assistance has
been recruited and the Government is reviewing the 1983 work program.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million Credit of
March 10, 1982; Effective Date: October 5, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986 (cofinanced by AfDB and KfW
(Federal Republic of Germany).
The Project aims at replacement of a substantial part of ONATRA's
river transport fleet and rehabilitation of 65 km of railway line. The project
is proceeding well. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France) has
approved funds for the purchase of goods that were initially proposed for
financing by BADEA, which withdrew from the project for non-effectivenss of its
loan.
Credit 1224-ZR:        Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project:US$19 Million of
June 9, 1982; Effective Date: November 11, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987. (Cofinanced by Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique, CCCE, of France
The project will rehabilitate the electrical generating stations and
the transmission and distribution system of the Shaba region to minimize the
risk of failure of the supply of energy to the mining industry and particularly
to Gecamines. SNEL management, planning, operating and maintenance capabilities
will be strengthened with the services of experts and provision of equipment,
vehicles and spare parts. A delay in Credit Effectiveness was experienced when
the original cofinancier withdrew from the project.



- 60 -
ANNEX IIC
Page 8 of 9
Credit 1241-ZR:        Second Water Supply Project:  US$18 Million Credit of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: November 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project as designed at appraisal would strengthen and expand
production and distribution systems to improve water supply service in the
towns of Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi and Likasi.  The operating and maintenance
capability of REGIDESO would also be strengthened through provision of
materials, equipment, vehicles, training and experts' services. Co-financing
of US$9.3 million for works in Likasi city was to have been provided by the
OPEC Fund for International Development, but has not been forthcoming as
anticipated; the Government has requested supplemental financing by the
Association, and this request is being reviewed. Tenders have been launched
for the IDA financed cities of Kisangani and Mbuyi-Mayi. Contracts for
supplies have been awarded and the civil work contract should be awarded by
end May 1983.
Credit 1244-ZR:        Agriculture Technical Assistance Project: US$5 Million
Credit of May 20,1982; Effective Date: November 30,
1982;. Closing Date: December 31,1985.
The project will provide experts' services to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development to strengthen project preparation,
planning, financial and budgetary management; and to advise on project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and to the Government to assist in
review of key policy issues.
Credit 1264-ZR:        Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project:  US$11.3 Million
Credit of August 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 31,
1983. Closing date: June 30, 1986.
The project will form an essential element of a long-term cotton
rehabilitation program initiated by the Government in 1978. The main
objective to increase cotton production in the areas of three major cotton
companies, La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO and ESTAGRICO. The project will also aim
at stimulating production of foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton and at
improving living conditions by expanding communications and health services.
Credit 1273-ZR:        Sixth DFC Project:  US$ 21.5 Million Credit of August6,
1982; Effective Date: March 15, 1983; Closing Date:
December 3, 1986.
The IDA Credit would (a) finance the foreign exchange component
(US$19.5 million) of the capital investment requirements of subprojects
approved by SOFIDE in the agriculture, transportation and industrial sectors;
(b) provide foreign exchange resources to SOFIDE to enable it to upgrade its
management and control systems and staff capabilities (US$0.9 million); and
(c) finance the foreign exchange component of studies to improve industrial
sector policy formulation and project selection (US$1.1 million).



- 61 -
ANNEX IIC
Page 9 of 9
Credit 1290-ZR:        Fifth Highway Project:  US$43.5 Million Credit
of October 29, 1982; Terminal Date for
Effectiveness: June 30, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986; cofinanced by AfDB.
The project is designed to support the 1983-85 work program of
Office des Routesby continuing the country-wide road maintenance and
rehabilitation program begun under the Fourth Highway Project Cr. 916-ZR)
and includes resurfacing and strengthening of 165 km of paved roads;
reconstruction of bridges, replacement of ferries, construction of ferry
approaches, procurement of laboratories equipment and studies. The credit is
not yet effective.



-  62  -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification:                       1979
(b) Project Preparation Reponsibility:  EGL/Consultants
(c) Appraisal Mission:                    July 1982
(d) Negotiations:                         March 31 to April 5, 1983
(e) Target Effectiveness:                 December 1983
Section II: Special Conditions
A. The Borrowers (Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire) would:
(i)  cause their national electricity companies to assign to SINELAC
individuals with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association to be trained as counterparts (para. 60);
(ii)  cause each of their national electricity companies to make
available for the purposes of SINELAC one-third of all local
expenditures for construction of the project, including working
capital and financial charges during construction of the project
(para. 73);
(iii)  cause their central banks to maintain at all times the free
convertibility between the Burundi franc, Rwandese franc and
zaire for SINELAC's quarterly account balances and provide to
SINELAC as and when needed foreign exchange for maintenance,
renewal and audits (para. 62);
(iv) A condition of Credit signature would be that the Treaty and
By-laws establishing SINELAC be ratified (para. 58); and
(v) Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) the transfer of land and rights required for carrying out the
Project to SINELAC (para. 58).
(b) that an individual with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association has taken up the position of
General Manager of SINELAC on a full-time basis (para. 59);
(c) completion of contractual arrangements concerning the purchase
of power from SINELAC by the three national electricity
companies (para. 63);



63  -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(d) payment by each Government of US$100,000 equivalent towards
SINELAC working capital requirements (para. 73);
(e) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to initial disbursement
of co-financiers' loans and conditions of effectiveness of the
other Borrowers' Credit Agreements (para. 67); and
(f) signature of subsidiary loan agreements between SINELAC and the
three Governments (para. 67).
B. The Government of Burundi as Borrower would:
(i)  cause REGIDESO to carry out a study of its tariff structure and
furnish to the Association the results of the study by December 31,
1983 (para. 71);
(ii) cause REGIDESO to revalue annually its fixed assets in service
(para. 73);
(iii) agree to carry out works on its transmission and distribution
network required for the use of power generated by Ruzizi II
(para. 72);
C.        The Government of Rwanda as Borrower would:
(i)  cause ELECTROGAZ to carry out a study of its tariff structure and
furnish to the Association the results of the study by December 31,
1983 (para. 73); and
(ii) cause ELECTROGAZ to revalue annually its fixed assets in service
(para. 73);
(iii) agree to carry out works on its distribution system required for
the use of power generated by Ruzizi II (para. 72).
D.        The Government of Zaire as Borrower, would:
(i)  cause SNEZ to carry out annually a revaluation of the economic
value of its fixed assets (para. 73);
(ii) agree to carry out works on its transmission and distribution
network required for the use of power generated by Ruzizi II
(para. 72).
E.         SINELAC would:
(i)  employ at all times on a full-time basis a Technical Director and a
Financial and Administrative Director (para. 60);



- 64 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(ii) employ a civil engineer by December 31, 1983 and a chief accountant
by June 30, 1984 as members of the management team of technical
experts (para. 60);
(iii) employ a panel of experts to review the adequacy of project design,
and safety of the dam and related structures and conduct periodic
reviews of the design during and after construction (para. 60);
(iv) review and discuss with the Association any proposed investment
project and not undertake any proposed investment in excess of
US$500,000 equivalent without the Association's prior approval
(para. 61); and
(v)  employ a consultant eight months prior to the commissioning of the
facilities to recalculate the average wholesale electricity tariff
and furnish to the Association the report of the consultant no
later than three months prior to the date estimated for the
commissioning of the facility (para. 64).



UGANDA  /           ,                              30° 
K-  I a pl^                K E N Y A                                               BURUNDI-RWANDA-ZAIRE
RUZIZI 1REGIONAL HYDROELECTRIC
..ROOANA=                                                                                POWER PROJECT
8J8UNmb a /k \Momasu/> UG ANUDG   A   N                                  D
!7e  T A N Z A N I A                                                                        M    M r n o          
L2VW~~~~~(             L
M                   ~~~~~~Dcr Es Salas jo                                     >\90 /    j                <       _
2 ~   ~    ~     '                                K-g.-0}°)'\   9
\ ~~~~~~~~~~>K ~ ~   ~      ~      A
06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2821s hd > br rr O.PdMWn f  \ C Gisoro t= \  = !   .
rdossroolw>CxNrrent~~~~~~5                                                 /               * -  E 6. Btmf0 68   Oso isso    Lines
66                                    k-                                                 Ng-2.-  8es
)vy-ntRunt5Kz guiru                                                        rk  E/
p- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, E'~~~~~- -Ineioisi  onoe
"O PS)w                                                                                                                     0 P86882  0  8  2  80 NA
/'    -o
X;~~~~~~~~ R  E C{yI 7   /o  
*582 M  & 3 f~   ~* / ,       Buak          \      :rt             S    ,<R              /i                     Bharimlo-Y  
tJ   <?   S  >   U  R  t    W   /   N t  rv- D  ,4  fW      ° ~~~C~NSR~,CIID  E , STJ
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                       -  1r  , P1   (D,-    2
)0;~~   ~~          30                                                                    7  uan          /     70 KV T-as wln le
N = ja ffi t V t1 AS -> - ~~~~~~~~6.b KV r--s-slso LU-
i   ;t k  0 0 M  ji  Ats hambal  J  /J     N                               ~~~~~~~~~Pr -oy R-sds
J < /  ;\ =    s/<Lat   | >   _    0          2~~5       50           5                                2
[   ji   4    =  S   /4      ~~~~~~kILOAAETER5                              r:
| ;    ;  9='-  -j \ ;p-        MILE5        10      20     30      40      50                          fC
29-                                                 20 5      ir                                          1 i   tN  lo 0 3    



