E717 revised
June 2003
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
THIRD POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
(PRSC3)
ANALYSIS OF ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES
1.     This document presents an analysis of environmental and resettlement issues in the third
annual Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC3) for Uganda. This EA discussion builds upon
the previous EA for PRSC2, and considering that PRSCs are sequential annual credits, repeats the
previous impact and mitigation considerations, adding more details regarding resettlement and
pesticides. The Annex is divided into four sections. Section I summarizes the project. Section II
summarizes impact and mitigation measures. Section III presents the key environmental,
resettlement, pesticide and other policy issues along with relevant mitigative measures and
monitoring needs. Section IV discusses institution capacity building for issues of environment
and involuntary resettlement in Uganda. Finally, Section V proposes indicative plans for
monitoring and supervision.
I. CREDIT BACKGROUND
2.     PRSC3 Goals, Objectives and Structures. PRSC3 will support the implementation of
Uganda's poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)
and summarized in the Uganda's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The overarching
goal of PEAP policies and resource allocations is to reduce the incidence of poverty in Uganda
(based on the headcount index) from 44 percent in 1997 to 10 percent or less by the year 2017.
PEAP also sets forth the specific goals of achieving universal access to primary education,
primary health care, safe drinking water, rural development, guaranteeing political freedom and
human rights, and establishing an effective disaster relief system targeted at the poor.
Government's strategy for poverty eradication is based on four pillars:
I.     A framework for economic growth and transformation;
II.    Ensuring good governance and security;
III.   Directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes;
IV.    Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor.
PRSC3 will continue supporting a set of reforms under each pillar.
3.     PRSC3 Objective and Activities. The specific objective of PRSC3 is to improve public
service delivery, given that poor public service performance is one of the key constraints to
economic development and poverty reduction. In particular, PRSC3 will continue supporting the
reform program adopted under PRSCI and PRSC2, further developing it and deepening the rural
agenda, specifically the agro-processing and marketing component.  The reform program
supports activities that raise the quality of life and incomes of the poor; specifically, improve
access to and quality of education, health, water and sanitation services, and improve rural
services. Since improving the delivery of these services requires a more broad-based action than
only addressing sector-specific constraints to their delivery, the reform program focuses heavily
on cross-cutting governance issues (such as public procurement, financial management, anti-
corruption, and monitoring and evaluation) and public expenditure management.
4.     Because of their significant focus on sectoral policies and institutions, PRSCI and
PRSC2 were classified for environmental purposes as a B, with the requirement that
FILE COPYe



Annex 6
environmental analysis (but no separate environmental assessment report) be incorporated in
credit documentation. PRSC1 was approved by the Bank's Board in May 2001, PRSC2 in July
2002, and the Program Documents with all the annexes were disclosed to the public thereafter.
5.     PRSC3 will support activities in the following areas:
(a)    Public expenditure management, financial sector strengthening, and monitoring
and evaluation: (i) align expenditure with PRSP priorities; (ii) include donor-
financed projects and link staffing plan with the wage bill in the medium-term
expenditure framework; (iii) reduce deviations from the budget; (iv) streamline
inter-governmental fiscal transfers; (v) enhance results-orientation of sector
expenditure programs; (vi) streamline and strengthen monitoring and evaluation
arrangements; (v) strengthen financial sector performance.
(b)    Cross-cutting public sector reforms: (i) public service management (implement
public sector pay reform, improve payroll management, control expansion of
public administration, launch a public service reform); (ii) public procurement
(update the legal and regulatory framework, reform procurement arrangements,
strengthen enforcement of procurement rules and regulations, improve efficiency
of National Medical Stores); (iii) financial management (update the legal and
regulatory framework, improve accounting and reporting, strengthen audit
structures and practices, implement regular expenditure tracking surveys); (iv)
transparency (improve access to public information); (v) detection, investigation
and prosecution of corruption; (vi) civil society participation (develop NGO
policy and code of conduct); (vii) legal and judicial reform (implement
commercial justice reforms to enhance enforcement of commercial contracts).
(c)    Promoting enabling environment for rural development: (i) research and
technology (improve responsiveness and impact of publicly funded agricultural
research); (ii) agricultural advisory services (increase access and effectiveness of
agricultural advisory services); (iii) rural finance (develop legal and regulatory
framework for microfinance); (iv) land (implement the 1998 Land Act in a
prioritized manner, promote access to land by women and children/orphans); (v)
environment (integrate environmental sustainability concerns in government
programs); (vi) agro-processing and marketing (reduce constraints to agro-
processing and marketing).
(d)    Improve quality of education: (i) primary education (reduce pupil-teacher ratio,
pupil-textbook ratio, pupil-classroom ratio); (ii) post-primary education (develop
and implement a strategy for the expansion of post-primary education).
(e)    Improving health care: (i) health care financing (rationalize health care
financing); (ii) drug procurement and management (strengthen procurement and
management of drugs and medical supplies); (iii) human resources (increase
human resource for health); (iv) health infrastructure (improve health
infrastructure).
(f)    Increase access to, reliability, affordability, and sustainability of water supply
and sanitation (WSS) services: (i) rural WSS (strengthen decentralized planning,
preparation, implementation and management; improve central government's
capacity to provide technical assistance to districts; utilize the local private sector
for WSS delivery; develop a strategy for national hygiene promotion, sanitation,
and communication); (ii) small towns WSS (introduce new management
2



Annex 6
framework); (iii) urban WSS (introduce commercial operations; improve
financial sustainability).
In each of the sectors included in the PRSC, sector plans are prepared by sector working groups,
which include government officials, donors, NGOs, and private sector representatives
6.     Environmental Classification and Safeguard Policy. Based on the credit objectives and
structures, PRSC3 was classified as a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC) at a meeting convened
by the Bankwide PRSC Working Group on October 1, 2002, in accordance with the Interim
Guidelines for PRSCs of May 2001. According to Bank policy, the Operational Directive (OD)
8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental Assessment, apply.
Given the nature of the credit, which includes support to Uganda's Plan for the Modernization of
Agriculture, OP 4.09, Pest Management, is also applicable. Operational Policy Note (OPN)
11.03, on the Management of Cultural Property in Bank-financed Projects, OP 4.04, Natural
Habitats, OP 4.36, Forestry, and OD 4.20, Indigenous People, may also be applicable to specific
interventions undertaken by the Government using PRSC3 funding. In accordance with OP 4.01,
the credit was categorized as a B without a separate Environmental Assessment (EA), and is so
documented in the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet. In accordance with the Bank's revised
disclosure policy, this environment and resettlement Annex has been disclosed through the World
Bank Headquarters InfoShop, and in Uganda with the World Bank Kampala office InfoShop and
to NEMA for distribution to the Districts.
7.    Potential Environmental and Resettlement Impacts of PRSC3. Overall, the activities
supported by PRSC3 are not expected to result in major adverse, or irreversible, environmental
impacts. Biophysical environmental impacts, although thought to be modest given the nature of
the activities, can be foreseen at this time only in a generic manner. The potential for land
acquisition, resettlement, and effects on cultural resources also cannot be ruled out, but such
effects are likely to be limited in extent given the de-emphasis on large-scale construction in the
PEAP approach and the nature of IDA support to it. The environmental impacts of activities in
agriculture, education, health and water and sanitation are expected to be sufficiently addressed
by appropriate Ugandan institutions and implementing agencies. Potential conflict over land use,
land tenure, and common property may arise in some of these sectors. IDA currently has a strong
presence in the above sectors and will continue to work with counterparts to ensure that
appropriate mitigative measures are promoted and incorporated into credit activities. Table I
shows the investment projects that complement PRSC3 in the areas of environment, roads,
agriculture, health, and water and sanitation and their development objectives in Uganda. As
relevant, each of these investment projects fully incorporates Bank safeguards issues,
management plans and the monitoring of environmental and social performance indicators.
3



Annex 6
Table 1: Investment Projects Complementing PRSC3
Name of Project                                Project's Development Objectives
Environment:
Second Environmental Management Capacity      Promote sustainable environmental and natural
Building Project                              resources management at the national, district and
community levels.
Institutional Capacity Building--Protected Areas  Establish effective institutional capacity within
Management and Sustainable Use Project        wildlife and tourism sectors for strategic planning,
program development and implementation, and
promote long-term sustainability.
Lake Victoria Environment Credit              Rehabilitate the lake ecosystem.
Roads:
Roads Development Program                     Improve   access  to  rural  and  economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Second Phase of the Road Development Program  Improve   access  to  rural  and  economically
productive areas, and build up road sector planning
and management capability.
Road Sector/Institutional Support Technical   Strengthen  the   Government's   road   sector
Assistance Project                            management.
El Nino Emergency Road                        Assist the Government to restore and rehabilitate
key roads and bridges severely damaged by heavy
rains associated with the El Nino weather pattern.
Agriculture:
Agriculture Research and Training             To    support  technology   development   and
dissemination, consistent with Uganda's Plan for
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA).
National Agriculture Advisory Services Project  Establish an effective and sustainable demand-
driven agricultural advisory service.
Health:
HIV/AIDS Control Project                      Support the   implementation  of the National
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS to reduce the
spread of HIV; mitigate the health and socio-
economic impact of HIV/AIDS; and to strengthen
the national capacity to respond to the epidemic.
IL. SUMMARY OF IMPACTS, MITIGATION MEASURES, CAPACITY BUILDING
AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Sectoral Impact Analysis
8.     Rural Development. Potential adverse impacts of the activities under the Plan for the
Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) include environmental and natural resource degradation due
4



Annex 6
to intensification of small-holder agriculture; expansion of large-scale agriculture (cash crops);
increased use of agro-chemicals, and development of rural roads to support agricultural
marketing. Such impacts need to be anticipated and managed appropriately. Several agencies are
responsible for environmental management in Uganda. Ministry of Water, Lands, and
Environment (MOWLE) and Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF)
are responsible for management of sustainable natural resources development. National Bureau
of Standard (NBS), National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), and National
Agricultural Advisory Services (NAADS) are responsible for mitigating impacts from agro-
chemicals (including pesticides) through improvement of agricultural technology, research, and
training. The Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) is developing capacity to screen activities
and prepare environmental assessments and environmental management, and resettlement
frameworks and plans for its own projects, including district roads. The National Environmental
Management Authority (NEMA) coordinates intersectoral review of environmental impact
assessments for projects that will significantly affect the environment, and reviews the work of
the sectoral environmental units that it is helping to launch.
9.     Education Sector. Construction of school building and sanitary facilities is not expected
to cause significant adverse impacts. Most impacts are local and can be easily mitigated. The
Government of Uganda mandates that measures of the Public Health Act be applied to
construction of school buildings and other public works. The Bank needs to ensure that the
Government's standard requirement for school construction meet the Bank's requirements and
policies.
10.    Health Sector. Concerns include construction activities as well as overall health care
waste (HCW) management. Environmental risks are associated with hazardous medical waste
materials, including possible infection from HIV/AIDS through used needles and blood waste;
building health clinics and hospitals; construction of water supply and sanitation facilities.' The
Ministry of Health (MOH) has identified the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) to address the
handling, storage and disposal of health care waste (HCW) at all levels of the national health care
delivery system. This includes development of a management strategy, guidance, and human
resources development.2 Such measures address various sanitation and waste issues, including the
handling, storing and disposing hazardous medical wastes.
11.    Water and Sanitation Sector. In the water and sanitation sector, the focus of the PRSC
operation is to promote systematic reforms in the sector in order to ensure sustained access to safe
drinking water and sanitation services and in particular, expand services to those who currently
do not have or cannot afford such services. Under PRSC1, strategies were implemented to initiate
nation-wide decentralized planning and management system that enhances community
participation in choosing water and sanitation services as well as increases commitment to
operation and maintenance of the service. Through MOWLE, environmental checklists for both
design and operation of systems have been developed and incorporated into the Planning and
Operational Guidelines for District WSS Conditional Grants. This includes a section covering
environmental screening criteria for subproject appraisal and environmental requirements for
contractors. It is also standard practice in Uganda for EIAs to be conducted for all investments
and development projects (including but not limited to donor-supported projects) using guidelines
developed at the sectoral level by the lead agency involved (MOWLE in this case) and NEMA (in
this and other sectors). These guidelines and the environmental screening checklists were
' For purposes of this discussion, health care waste includes pharmaceutical, anatomic, radioactive, infectious,
genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, pressurized containers, sharps, and associated contaminated materials following
WHO, Safe Management of Wastes from Health-Care Activities, 1999.
2 Ministry of Health, Health Sector Strategic Plan, 2000/01-2004/05, August 2000.
5



Annex 6
developed in Uganda to be directly compatible with World Bank environmental standards.
Measures for protection of water sources will also be refined. The reorganized Directorate of
Water Development (DWD) in MOWLE will engage trained staff and experienced consultants to
implement these measures under PRSC3 and carry out annual environmental audits to ensure
compliance by local governments. Expanded stakeholder consultation will also be provided
through further training of staff.
Mitigation Measures
12.   Rural Development-Land Tenure. The process of systematic land demarcation provides
an opportunity for any land tenant/occupant to go through a formalized process of having land
"certified" and then if desired "titled". In general, a land owner can come to agreement on a
settlement where the occupants can purchase the land, with money coming from the Land Fund.
No resettlement cases are expected in the coming year, but as the implementation of systematic
demarcation proceeds further, cases where resettlement is seen to be the way to resolve disputes
may arise. The Prime Minister's Office will continue the development of national standards for
this and other type of involuntary resettlement. Like the Bank, the Government is committed to
ensuring that processes of involuntary land acquisition leave those affected no worse off than they
would otherwise have been. The Bank will continue to explore options to support the intended
updating of the background and policy work carried out in 1995, using the presence of the Bank's
land tenure specialist who currently is based in the Kampala country office.
13.   Rural Development-Agriculture. Potential adverse impacts associated with the PMA
implementation will be mitigated through the National Agriculture Advisory Services Project
(NAADS) that was approved in January 2001. A number of mitigation practices were identified
in the NAADS EA. A Pest Management Plan, consistent with the World Bank safeguards, was
prepared as part of the EA for NAADS, and it focuses on ensuring sustainable pest management
activities, minimizing health and environmental pesticide risks and strengthened capacity for IPM
and pesticide regulatory control. As part of NAADS supervision, a pest management specialist
will undertake further evaluation of the situation in the country including collecting information
on registration,, monitoring and enforcement; site visits to NAADS service providers and
identification of agrochemicals of concern and possible solutions for minimizing health risks and
environmental hazards.
14.   Health. A HCW management plan, consistent with World Bank guidelines, was endorsed
by the Health Sector Review in October 2002. The national HCW planning is covered by the
sector strategy.
15.    Water Supply and Sanitation. MOWLE has developed environmental screening
checklists for both design and operations, and they are being incorporated into the revised
Planning and Operation Guidelines for district WSS conditional grants. IDA will continue to
review the guidelines and the checklists. The checklists identify any potential environmental,
land tenure, and resettlement impacts of proposed activities, and apply to borehole drilling for
water supply, expanding and improving the existing water supply, latrine, other sanitation
facilities, and wastewater treatment.
Public Disclosure
16.   Consultation and Disclosure. In accordance with the requirements of the revised
disclosure policy, this annex will be disclosed to the public in-country and at the World Bank
Infoshop. Investments made with support of the PRSC will be subject to Government policy,
6



Annex 6
which likewise requires public consultation and for environmental impact statement (EIS)
documents of projects with potential adverse impacts on the environment.
Institutional Capacity Building
17.   Environmental Issues and Mitigation Measures. NEMA has the mandate to coordinate,
monitor and supervise all environmental activities. The framework for environmental assessment
and regulation is based on the National Environment Statute of 1995.  The more recent
Environmental Impact Assessment (ETA) Regulations of 1998 define in detail the EIA process,
which requires, as appropriate, environmental impact assessments, environmental impact
statements, and/or environmental audits for all private and public development projects.
Basically, a system of EIA and monitoring that identifies adverse environmental impacts is in
place. On physical cultural property, the Ugandan EIA system includes a stipulation to prevent
destruction of cultural heritage, historic sites, and archaeological resources.3 NEMA undertakes
the EIA oversight function, but leaves implementation to the relevant line ministries and
departments. In addition, NEMA is developing EIA capacity in sectoral ministries, line-
departments and at the district level through an ongoing investment project financed by IDA.
18.   Impact Assessment Institutional Capacity Building. The Government's implementing
agencies have embarked on efforts to improve environmental management for sectors associated
with PRSC3. The Bank will work with its counterparts in the Government to create a viable
framework in identifying and tracking key issues. Through the IDA-supported Environmental
Management Capacity Building Projects (EMCBP) I and II, IDA has been assisting NEMA to
enhance environment management in lead agencies, districts and communities, in addressing
environmental degradation problems and sustainable resource management.
Monitoring and Supervision
19.   Monitoring and Supervision. A monitoring plan to review the Government's EIA
procedures and other relevant regulatory procedures for sectoral activities in the PRSC3 will be
developed. In the context of annual PRSC preparation, the Bank is undertaking supervision to
assure that the Bank's requirements on environment assessment and resettlement are being
complied with, including appropriate involvement of specialists.
III. KEY ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT ISSUES AND MITIGATION
PLANS
20.    Key Environment and Resettlement Issues of PRSC3. There are direct and indirect
environmental and potential resettlement issues primarily linked to reforms under the
PEAP/PRSP Pillar III (Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes) and IV (Directly
Increasing the Quality of Life) of PRSC3 . While the types of activities in each sector are known,
the specific locations and conditions of activities will only be known as the implementing
agencies execute their budget plans.
Rural Development--Degradation of Environment and Natural Resources
21.    Environmental Degradation. PRSC3 addresses issues of environmental degradation by
integrating environmental concerns in all government programs, particularly in modernization of
agriculture (Pillar III). In Uganda, degradation of the environment and natural resources (ENR)
3NEMA Statute Supplement, section 50, May 19, 1995.
7



Annex 6
sectors is estimated to range from 4 percent to 12 percent of GDP.4 The agricultural sector alone
is estimated to be responsible for 86 to 91 percent of ENR degradation in monetary terms. This
takes the form of deforestation, loss of natural habitats, loss of top soil, uncontrolled growth of
water hyacinths, pollution of water bodies, illegal logging, and bush land burning.
22.    Environmental Regulations.  The National Environmental Statute of 1995 (NEMA
Statute) and regulations passed under this statute are the principal safeguards to curb ENR
degradation in Uganda.5 The Statute also mandated the National Environmental Management
Authority (NEMA) to coordinate, monitor, and supervise policies/programs on environmental
management. This is done primarily through the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
process. A large-scale agricultural project, such as development of cash crops (coffee, tea, oil
palm, and sugar cane), which will affect the environment, is required to undertake an EIA. The
Statute also promotes conservation in ecologically sensitive areas, such as lakes, wetlands,
forests, and hillside areas. However, for high altitude crops, such as tea and horticultural crops,
farming the hill sides may be unavoidable. For the ecologically sensitive areas, the following
measures are recommended: use of appropriate farming methods, curbing of soil erosion, and
protection of water catchments. The NEMA Statute prohibits activities that will reclaim and
drain the wetlands; and limits other human activities in the wetlands. In the same manner, it also
prohibits activities that will lead to the destruction of forest and hillsides areas6
23.    Soil and Water Conservation. On farms, soil and water conservation is a priority.
Agricultural development in Uganda is constrained by weathered soils whose fertility varies
across districts. There are thirteen districts scattered through the Eastern, Central and Western
regions. The districts with high population density--over 300 persons per sq. km-are those with
good agricultural potential and high rainfall. Consequently, those are at risk of soil erosion (e.g.,
in the Jinja district and around Lake Victoria). Currently, the traditional farming systems to
restore soil fertility and land productivity do not keep up with the rate of soil degradation and
population pressure on land.7
24.    Mitigation and Management of ENR impacts. Mitigation and management of adverse
impacts on natural resources are mainly the responsibility of NEMA, MOWLE, and MAAIF.
The research and extension advisory services agencies, NARO and NAADS, support those
agencies in managing adverse environmental impacts of agricultural sector through research and
training. IDA has funded several capacity building initiatives in Uganda, including current
investment support to NARO and NAADS. The agencies are expected to play important roles
with regard to compliance with environmental, resettlement and other relevant policies in
Uganda.
Rural Development-Use of Agro-chemicals8
25.    The Pharmacy and Drug Act was enacted in Uganda in 1970, but it was not until 1989
that an Agricultural Chemicals Statue came into effect. The manufacture, storage, distribution,
trade, importation and exportation of pesticides are controlled by the Agricultural Chemicals
4 Yakobo Moyini and Eugene T Muramira "The Cost of Environmental Degradation and Loss to Uganda' Economy
with Particular Reference to Poverty Eradication "-Final Draft, IUCN Uganda, July 2001.
5The Water Statute 1995, The Wetland Policy 1995, National Environment Waste Management Regulations, 1999,
Draft Forestry Act, 2001.
6 NEMA Statute sections 37,38; and 39-47.
7Planfor Modernization ofAgriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda. MAAIF Report, 2000,
8 More details regarding pesticide use, regulation and donor programs are available in several technical memos
prepared during PRSC preparation missions.
8



Annex 6
Statute (ACS) Number 8 of 1989 and by the Statutory Instrument Supplement No. 23 of the
ACDS Regulations of 1993. This led to the creation of the Agricultural Chemicals Board (ACB)
consisting of 13 members that ensure agricultural chemicals are duly registered in the country and
are used in a manner consistent with the rules made by the state. The Board appoints an
Agricultural Chemicals Technical Committee (ACTC) to advise the Board on technical matters
and both of these operations fall under the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAAIF).
26.   Importation and distribution of pesticides and other agricultural inputs used to be
conducted by the Government and its parastatals, but recent privatization initiatives, have seen
the Government remove itself from this role including removal of subsidies for these products.
Aligned with this process was the removal of import taxes on agricultural chemicals, which is
thought to have increased the availability of pesticides to producers. USAID reports suggest that
the number of pesticide shops and dealers in the country has remained constant or increased since
this change, suggesting that consumption of pesticides is substantial or growing. This is hard to
quantify and other informed sources indicate that there is relatively low use of pesticides
throughout the country by small subsistent farmers.
27.    Registration of agricultural chemicals, dealers, fumigators and premises is provided
annually in the Uganda Gazette, including trade name, common name and firm, and/or propriety.
Although there are good regulations in place, enforcement is variable. Unregistered pesticides are
still being sold without ACB registration, such as malathion, diazinon, Rogor, and sulfur. There
are cases of pesticides being repackaged and sold in smaller amounts without proper labels.
Although the regulation requires sales of pesticides to be in separate buildings, it is rare to find
this followed. Lack of staff hinder enforcement, only one person handles registration applications
and inspection of pesticide premises for the whole country. The Public Service Commission has
still not approved the request for additional staff and district agricultural officers have been asked
to undertake some of these roles.
28.    Other constraints in the area of pesticide usage and management include:
* Inadequate monitoring, enforcement and policing mechanisms;
* Lack of residue and analytical capacity for purity of active ingredients, residue on foods
and toxicological acceptability;
* Lack of registration of pesticides for specific use on specific crops;
* Lack of adequate public information on registered pesticides; and
* Limited number of registered pesticides.
29.    Specific details for the agriculture sector nationally are elusive. Several donors are
actively engaged with targeting specific changes and improvements regarding pesticide policy
and use.
30.    The current process of providing farmer extension in the majority of districts, since only
16 districts will be covered at the completion of NAADS, is difficult to discern, since discussions
with the Commissioner of Crop Protection, the Department of Crop Protection in MAAIF and
national experts indicate that there is currently no national level information on application
quantities and changes in farmer practices as a result of the extensive extension and
demonstration activities that cover a wide spectrum of farming practices.
31.    Pesticide Management. Measures to mitigate potential adverse impacts of pesticide use
will be taken through the ongoing National Agriculture Advisory Services Project (NAADS) that
9



Annex 6
was approved in January 2001. The goal of NAADS is to increase security of rural livelihoods
with sustainable improvements in agricultural productivity and household incomes through
increasing commercialization of farming. The project aims to transform the existing public
extension service to a decentralized, largely farmer-owned and private sector advisory service. As
of early 2003, NAADS was operational in 16 districts, with the process of expanding its programs
to more districts slower than originally intended.9 There is an expectation that the good practice in
crop production will eventually expand to most of the country. As a category B project, a EA for
NAADS was prepared in July 2000, and a Pest Management Plan in September 2000.
32.    Although agro-chemical use is relatively low in the country, NAADS is facilitating
intensification of smallholder agricultural production systems, potentially increasing the use of
fertilizers and other agrochemicals. Mitigation practices identified in the NAADS EA include:
*  Training of input suppliers in precautionary measures required for the handling, labeling
and application of agrochemicals under field conditions. These measures will include
advise on pesticide stock management procedures and record keeping practices; pesticide
storage, use of protective equipment; use and cleaning of application equipment; and
emergency plans in response to spillage and/or contamination.
* Training of farmers and service providers in use and handling of agrochemicals.
* Promotion of reduced input production systems and avoidance of the use of pesticides
whenever practicable by using alternative pest management methods, including best mix
of biological or cultural controls.'"
33.    The NAADS Executive is responsible for environmental monitoring and evaluation by
specifying in the contracts the obligations and environmental mitigation measures to be taken by
the contractor. Each contractor will be responsible for ensuring that monitoring and record
keeping conform with environmental obligations by presenting written records for inspection to
the NAADS Executive and/or designated alternatives at local government level.
34.    Pest Management Plan. The Pest Management Plan prepared for NAADS focuses on
ensuring sustainable pest management activities, minimizing health and environmental pesticide
risks, and strengthening capacity for Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and pesticide regulatory
control. The plan summarizes the current status of pesticide use in the country, pest management
approaches for specific crops (i.e., cotton, vegetables, bananas), IPM experiences, and farmer
training in IPM.  It indicates that information on the use of pesticides is limited, farmer
application of pesticides might lack proper dosage, mixing procedures are varied and observation
of safety requirements questionable. However, the National Union of Plantation and Agricultural
Workers has since then initiated training activities on safe handling of pesticides.
35.    Pesticide registration came into effect in 1994 and to date 233 chemicals have been
registered following FAO Code of Conduct and PIC mechanisms are observed. Traders are
registered and licensed while large-scale importers must acquire a certification for handling and
transport and their personnel undergo training for safe pesticide handling. In addition, these
importers must have their facilities meet certain specifications and general safety requirements.
Commercial operators have to be certified to ensure safe chemical use.
9In districts not covered by NAADS, donors and agricultural research centers are supporting agricultural extension that
includes IPM and other sustainable practices.
10 At the end of December 2002, 1,118 farmer groups were registered and trained, translating to about 44,000 farmers.
At the end of the project, NAADS is expected to have reached about 400,000 farmers in total.
10



Annex 6
36.     Statistics concerning pesticide poisoning are not available, the capacity for analysis of
insitu residues is limited, and there is no systematic monitoring for residue levels. The capacity
to monitor pesticide use and storage and enforcement of regulations is also limited. Research on
IPM is ongoing as part of the strategy in the agriculture sector to enhance farmer productivity. In
general, there is farmer awareness on holistic management that addresses soil and water
management as well as IPM. This consists of farmer pilot training and extension capacity
building in crop ecology.
37.     The plan identifies the following mitigative measures:
*   Crop management training for service providers and farmers including integrated
approaches to soil, water, plant and nutritional management and IPM;
*   Improving IPM skills for service providers;
*   Ensuring that service providers with experience in integrated production and pest
management at the district level is expanded;
*   Observing IPM approaches if pesticides are used as part of demonstration activities;
and
*   Ensuring that pesticides use is in compliance with existing laws and regulations,
particularly MRLs for commercial export crops.
38.     Also, the plan recommends the following monitoring and evaluation measures to be taken
through NAADS:
*   Training activities on integrated management for service providers and farmers;
*   The knowledge and skills acquired by farmers;
*   IPM principles for field trials, farmer demonstrations, and service providers followed
in accordance with the principles of the World Bank approved Pest Management
Plan"; and
*   Pest management approaches by service providers and farmers.
39.     NAADS Policy and Strategy. The NAADS draft (October 2002) policy and strategy
framework for natural resources cover a wide array of issues and challenges, including
agrochemical use and EIAs. Key challenges are listed in Table 2 below.
Table 2. Key Natural Resource Management Challenges for NAADS
Issue                       Key Challenges for NAADS
Agrochemical Use            *   Promoting appropriate use of agrochemicals as part of integrated farm
management
*   Quality assuring private service provider advice on agrochemicals (e.g.
regulations, appropriate use, health and safety, etc.)
*   Promoting alternatives to high agrochemical use
Environmental Impact        *   Clarification of what agricultural activities require ElSs
Assessments (EIAs)          *   Updating EIA/SIA of NAADS
*   Training and information provision on EIA issues for service providers
Sustainable Agriculture     *   Capitalizing on current practices of sustainable agriculture and low
agrochemical use
l As specified in the section on guidelines for implementation.
11



Annex 6
40.    Specific actions that are identified under advisory and information services dealing with
pesticides include:
*  Service provider contracts: clauses in contracts which require adherence to NAADS
principles and guidelines on what natural resources-specific clauses should be included in
particular contracts (e.g., on use of agrochemicals, requirements for EIAs, environmental
impacts of certain enterprises, e.g., floriculture).
*  Production of guidelines and criteria: production of environmental guidelines, checklists
etc. for service providers, ensuring that guidelines highlight the need to include natural
resources-related issues and requirements, guidelines and checklists for including natural
resource issues in planning and outputs.
41.    PA14 Sub-Committee on Natural Resources. A PMA sub-committee on natural resource
management has recently been established to ensure that the vision for environmental
sustainability as outlined in the PMA  is achieved.  Representatives from  agencies and
organizations dealing with PMA issues will review the PMA implementation to ensure that
natural resource use and environmental issues have been adequately addressed. The three focal
areas of this group are to (i) monitor sustainable natural resource use & management in the PMA,
(ii) provide technical oversight in environmental and natural resource issues in the
implementation of PMA priority areas, and (iii) support natural resource sectors to become PMA
compliant. The committee has recently issued a proposal to monitor sustainable natural resource
use and management in the PMA in over a dozen thematic areas. The monitoring work of this
Sub-Committee is based on establishing measurable indicators, and efforts to strengthen the
various implementation frameworks. This sub-committee reports on progress to the PMA
Steering Committee.
42.    PMA  Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. The overall PMA    monitoring and
evaluation framework is designed to monitor inputs, outputs, and outcomes through performance,
beneficiary, and impact assessment of the seven PMA components. The current framework does
not include indicators on pesticide use nor management, but includes an output indicator focusing
on  environmental guidelines for sectoral plans and programs that is related to pesticides.
However, a set of environmental indicators related to integrated natural resource management and
agrochemical use has been further developed by environment and safeguard specialists, and the
plan is to integrate these into the overall PMA M&E framework. The indicators are designed to
provide qualitative information to verify World Bank pesticide safeguards are adhered to and will
also link to the NAADS supervision activities.
43.    World Bank Supervision. The NAADS project is still in its early stages of implementation
and the World Bank Task Manager has reiterated her intention to ensure that the pesticide issues
as identified in the NAADS EA and PMP will be supervised. This will take the form of using
pesticide specialists to verify, in the field, that proper measures are being undertaken and review
the chemical registration process.
44.    During PRSC4 preparation, the Bank together with the Government will explore and
agree on ways to further strengthen pesticide management and explore incentives for IPM. The
work will focus on pesticide registration, selection, and the overall regulatory framework
governing pesticides. Specific actions that will be undertaken include:
12



Annex 6
*  Gathering details concerning Government and donor activities on IPM and pesticide
management policy, practices and programs throughout the country, focusing on specific
agro-ecological zones, crop types, and farming practices;
*  Collecting information on current status on pesticide registration, new registrations, and
monitoring and enforcement plans;
*  Conducting site visits to NAADS service providers to identify measures taken based on
the NAADS EA and Pest Management Plan; and
*  Identification of agrochemicals of concern, specific hazards to human health, and
suggestions to address such problems.
Rural Development--Land Tenure
45.    The Land Act passed in 1998 provides for regularizing land tenure under mailo, freehold
and customary tenure regimes. The Land Sector Strategic Plan prioritizes implementation of the
Act, and forms the basis for the National Land Policy, capacity building for land administration,
and implementation of three pilots on land consolidation and land readjustment in Soroti,
Masaka, and Ntungamo. Pilots will provide an opportunity for any land tenant/occupant to go
through a formalized process of having land "certified" and then if desired "titled". In general,
land owners, tenants, and sub-tenants (who may or may not have a title-the land registry has
degraded over the past 20 years) can come to agreement on a settlement where one or another
party can purchase the land rights of the others. Discussions have continued for the past year on
mechanisms for the Land Fund to provide some of these financial resources to assist in land
purchase, but the details are still to be worked out.
46.    Under the Land Policy, two kinds of land adjudication processes may be undertaken. The
first is a process that addresses poverty by moving toward security of tenure under modern
mechanisms that will allow land to be used as security for land improvement finance and other
purposes. It is based on a process for individuals to address matters pertaining to land occupancy
and ownership that is being gradually established at the district levels. No resettlement is
expected in the pilot areas, since occupants and tenants will acquire certificates through the
demarcation and adjudication process. If people have occupied land for an extended period, they
will not be required to move.
47.    Another process the Land Commission may choose to implement is sorting out historic
claims of major land areas disputed by various ethnic groups, which may also include lands
administered by districts with residents belonging, by affiliation, to a chief or king. For example,
in Kibale district, the Land Commission is currently sorting out land occupancy between several
ethnic/tribal groups, and the Land Fund is being used to provide payments for demarcation and
settlement of tenants and occupants. Some resettlement may at later point take place in this
region since some people, if inappropriately occupying land, could be required to leave after
adjudication. The Bank will continue its dialogue with appropriate authorities to encourage the
use of the Land Fund for settling land tenure issues other than historic ethnic claims.
48.    A National Policy on Resettlement was drafted in 1995, but not passed by the Cabinet or
the Parliament. Further work to bring it into effectiveness rests with the Prime Minister's office.
The Bank currently has no project in the land sector addressing these matters, but the Government
has asked the Bank to engage in discussions on the resettlement policy. The Bank intends to
continue its discussions with the authorities to move the Resettlement Policy forward. The Bank
in the context of PRSC2 and PRSC3 preparation has communicated to the Ministry and Land
Commission that if individuals are required to move off currently occupied lands or resettle as
13



Annex 6
part of the LSSP process, appropriate Resettlement Action Plans or Frameworks will have to be
completed.
Rural Development--District Road Work
49.    District and Rural Roads. Agricultural marketing in Uganda is constrained by the poor
quality of the road network. More than 90 percent of Uganda's road network consists of earth
and gravel roads and 25 percent of the rural roads in the districts are impassable during the rainy
season.12 During PRSC3, a program of district and community roads will be begun. This
program will run parallel to and be guided by the principles of outsourcing and the environmental
regulatory frameworks in the long-term Roads Program (APLs 1-4) currently under
implementation in Uganda. In parallel with this national program, the Ministry of Works,
Housing and Communication (MOWHC) has initiated a sectoral Environmental Liaison Unit in
charge of promoting, developing, and disseminating guidance in environmental issues, and the
training of transport staff in particular. This work is consistent with the national mandate that
lead agencies should build up their own environmental regulatory capabilities, to carry out the
work in environment that they need to do in liaison with NEMA. In any case, the vast majority of
the work to be carried out in the PRSC will involve stabilizing and reconstruction of existing
minor roads at the community and district level, with no changes of alignments, widening, or hard
surfacing. Thus, no environmental or land acquisition issues will arise, except for minor drainage
and maintenance works. Appropriate environmental measures are already built in to the district
roads crews standard operating procedures.
Education--School Building Construction
50.    School Building Construction. No significant environmental impact is expected from
school construction. Minor impacts are associated with physical activities such as construction of
class room, dormitories, latrine and other facilities. The activities are regulated by the
Government in the Public Health Act (sections 72 and 73). Standard requirements for classroom
construction include approved lists of materials, location of latrines with washing facilities and
safe drinking water. The Bank needs to ensure that the Government's standard requirement for
school construction meets the Bank's requirement and policies.
Health--Disposal of Health Care Waste in Health Units, Health Centers and Hospitals
51.    Health Care Waste. Uganda is committed in its policies to ensure that no harm comes to
people from the management of health care wastes (HCW) or from gaps in sanitary facilities at
health care institutions. To date, it is difficult to assess the general status of sanitation and
medical waste at health facilities in Uganda because of limited data. Generally there is a need for
significant improvement in both areas. The following are the Ugandan problems in health care
wastes:
*  Pharmaceutical waste includes drugs and chemicals that are outdated, contaminated,
spilled or no longer required.
*  Radioactive waste includes solids, liquids and gaseous radio nuclides generated from
in vitro analysis of body tissues and fluids, in vivo body imaging and tumor
localization and therapeutic procedures.
*  Anatomic or pathological waste consists of human and animal tissues, organs, body
parts, fetuses, blood and body fluids.
12 Plan for Modernization of Agriculture, Eradicating Poverty in Uganda. MAAIF Report, 2000.
14



Annex 6
* Sharps comprise needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, broken glass and other puncture
inducing items.
* Infectious waste that can transmit infectious disease with pathogen concentrations and
quantities of that are of concern for exposure originate in laboratories, infectious
patient wastes, surgery and autopsies.
* Other waste of concern include genotoxic, chemical, heavy metals, and pressurized
containers.
* Communal/domestic type material such as packaging, paper and plastic products and
other organic material.
52.     Health Care Waste Strategy.     Strategy for health care waste management was drafted
through dialogue with the appropriate decision-making and national authorities1 3 The national
HCW planning process led by a task force that includes representatives from all the relevant
ministries. The proposed national HCW policy and strategy includes:
* Strategy for proper HCW management and disposal.
* Prevention and reduction of waste generation.
* Means of monitoring of infection control and environmental protection.
* Use of appropriate technology for packaging, transportation, treatment, and disposal.
* Central or decentralized treatment and disposal.
* Distribution of responsibility in the sector between national and local governments.
* Recommendations on private sector involvement.
* Investment plan for implementation of improved HCW management.
* Mechanisms for financing health care waste management.
* HCW management training programs at facility and municipal/district level.
53.     Health Care Waste Management by Type of Facility.           Specific HCW    management
considerations related to the key health care facilities in Uganda are outlined in Table 3.
Table 3: Considerations for Health Care Waste Management at Small and Large
Health Care Facilities
Small facilities                                 Large facilities
Raise awareness at the management level.        Raise awareness.
Develop an integrated HCW management plan.      Ensure special HCW is segregated from other waste.
Ensure segregation of special HCW from other    Determine appropriate treatment technology.
waste.                                          Consider facility-based vs. centralized waste
Determine appropriate treatment and disposal   treatment and disposal options.
site for facility.                              Ensure proper packaging and storage of special health
Train health care workers in proper HCW         care waste.
procedures.                                     Ensure safe transport of special HCW.
Develop a HCW management plan for facility.
Train health care workers in HCW management
procedures.
Address scavenging issues.
3 Draft Policy and Strategy on Sanitation and Healthcare Waste Disposal at Health Facilities, September 2001.
15



Annex 6
Water Supply and Sanitation
54.     Water Sector Standards and Guidelines.       Currently, all water supply and wastewater
projects will have to meet existing national environmental standards and water sector
guidelines.14 In addition, all larger village and urban potable water supply and distribution
systems and wastewater proposals (covering population clusters of above 5,000 people) submitted
to the DWD will undergo a prescribed EIA process that includes the following information:
* Description of the project and identification of all phases;
* Description of the proposed site and reasons for rejecting alternative sites;
* Environmental effects of the project, including direct, indirect, cumulative short-term and
long-term effects and possible alternatives;
* Measures proposed for eliminating, minimizing or mitigating adverse impacts; and
* A monitoring and evaluation program.
55.     Water Supply Regulations.     Regulations concerning water supply fall under the Water
Resources Regulations of 1998. They specify particular requirements for (i) any water extraction
by motorized water pump that temporarily or permanently pumps water from a borehole or
waterway and (ii) weir, dam, tank, or other work capable of diverting or impounding an inflow of
more than 400 cubic meters in any 24-hour period. Furthermore, both drilling and construction
permit requirements include submission of standard application forms. Since DWD is the
delegated NEMA agency, all EIA and technical requirements are managed by DWD, specifically
in the Water Resources Division. Based on these standards, guidelines and current practices, the
EIA process in the sector is characterized by the features highlighted in Table 4.
Table 4: Key Elements of the EIA Process for Water and Sanitation Projects-Design and
Construction
Objective                                       Responsible Party
*   Ensure that environmental issues are         District WSS Units
considered as part of design.               DWD Water Resources Division and Technical
*   Ensure that environmental impacts are        Support Units
reduced or minimized at site.                Commissioned Consultants and Contractors
*   Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders
Actions
*   Review the current environmental condition at  Verification
the site.                                    Subproject appraisal by District WSS Units
*   Assess the potential environmental impact    Environmental Impact Statement for large projects
associated with the proposed scheme.        Independent Environmental audit within a period
*   Identify mitigation measures in construction  of 12 months after completion of project
and operation.                              DWD inspections
14 Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, Water Supply Design Manual, 2000; RUWASA, Environmental
Guidelines and Code of Conduct; RUWASA, Guidelines for Assessing the Risk to Groundwater from On-site
Sanitation; RUWASA, Shallow Wells Information Booklet, 1999; Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project,
Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Pit Latrine Systems, 2000; Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation
Project, Sanitation Systems: Technologies and Designs for Human Excreta Disposal, 2000; RUWASA, Socio
Technical Manualfor Siting, 2000; Eastern Centers Water and Sanitation Project, Participatory Hygiene and Sanitation
Transformation, 2000.
16



Annex 6
56.    Protection of Water Sources, Drinking Water Standards and Sanitary Conditions. There
are several types of small-scale rural water supply schemes in the country: shallow wells,
boreholes, protected natural spring water points and borehole pump and distribution systems.
Most of the environmental considerations for water supply schemes involve avoiding water
contamination.  Measures 'should be taken to ensure initially good water quality. During
operation of the system, measures need to be taken to 'prevent contamination from agricultural
activities, grazing animals, and human contamination. Borehole construction in alluvial areas
with intense sugar cane production is of potential concern because of concentrated pesticide
treatments.  Testing of the water supply should be performed regularly to detect any
contamination to the system, and this should be done in conjunction with periodic chlorine
treatment under certain circumstances. Also, proper training of technicians is critical to ensure
that adequate maintenance occurs for both the single source and network water systems. The
MOWLE has developed environmental screening checklists for both design and operations which
has been incorporated into the revised Planning and Operation Guidelines for District WSS
Conditional grants. IDA will review the guidelines and the checklists for compatibility with OP
4.01 during Appraisal of PRSC3. These checklists identify any potential environmental, land
tenure, and resettlement impacts of proposed activities. These checklists apply to borehole
drilling for water supply, expanding and improving the existing water supply, latrine, other
sanitation facilities, and wastewater treatment.
57.    Water Distribution. The PRSC will be used mainly to extend focus on rural water supply
for the poor. DWD and other water delivery programs incorporate standard water quality
analysis to assess potential point water sources. Post-construction water quality monitoring is
also undertaken. Data collection and reporting procedures are regularly undertaken, yet such data
is not fully utilized. For example, monthly water quality reports for one district showed high
levels of nitrates among numerous spring point sources, yet no one had determined possible
causes. Improved data analysis at the regional and national level as the delivery of potable water
is expanded will become more important to identify potential environmental and human health
concerns. Other issues including access to drinking water and sanitation services as well as
resettlement requirements for the larger construction schemes will be summarized in a standard
report summary.
Public Disclosure
58.    Disclosure. PRSC3 has been categorized as a B (without a separate EA) under OP 4.01.
The requirements of the Bank's revised disclosure policy for Category B projects apply for those
appraised after January 1, 2002. The Bank's policy also requires public consultations and
disclosure for activities with potential adverse impacts on the environment in sectors supported
by PRSC that will occur in the future. The requirements include discussions of the project's
potential environmental impact with the project affected groups and local NGOs, and take their
views into account.'5 Similarly, the Government mandates public consultation, stakeholder
involvement, and information disclosure of projects with potential adverse impacts on the
environment through the EIA process. Public consultation with local NGOs and affected people
has been the normal pattern within Bank assisted-projects in Uganda, and non-Bank projects
under NEMA-led EIA procedures, for several years. Some stakeholders feel that the consultation
could be improved by a better selection of NGOs, and by following through more proactively on
stakeholder feedback during project implementation. i6
1s OP 4.01, para 15.
16 Conversation with Mr. Kivoumbi of NGO Environmental Alert in Kampala, October 2001.
17



Annex 6
59.    Outreach in Water and Sanitation Programs.  Poor communities may have little
opportunity to learn about programs designed to help them. In the case of a water and sanitation
project, DWD uses mobilizers, staff trained in social work, to undertake community out-reach
programs and conduct community consultations. These staff also engage in sanitation and health
promotional programs. It is common practice now for DWD to assist in organizing water
committees that identify the type of water system they want and are willing to pay for and
procedures for operating and maintaining the water supply facilities. In numerous cases, access
to water is controlled at public standpipes by an approved operator who is entitled to charge for
water and is also responsible for paying monthly-metered water bills. Restricting hours of
operation, reduction in the number of faucets and social conflicts regularly occur. Practical
mechanisms to quickly identify such problems and engage in conflict resolution are required to
ensure that water is available.
IV.    INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING FOR IMPACT ASSESSMENT
60.    NEMA's Mandate. In Uganda, NEMA has the mandate to co-ordinate, monitor and
supervise all environmental activities. NEMA leads an oversight function on EIA but leaves its
implementation to the relevant line ministries and departments. In practice, NEMA is the focal
institution and the EIA has become a primary tool for safeguarding the environment from the
adverse impacts of development activities in Uganda.  To further the effort, NEMA has
developed EIA guidelines (including public hearing guidelines), code of conduct for EIA
practitioners, regulations for appointing inspectors, and environmental easements. From January
1996 to September 2001, a total of 286 projects were subjected to EIA; 314 projects received
certificates; 9 environmental audits were conducted; 15 projects were stopped. Supported by
IDA-funding through the EMCBP credits, NEMA also builds EIA capacity in sectoral ministries,
departments, and at the district levels. NEMA also assists districts to establish and strengthen the
statutory management institutions and ensure adequate community inputs into district
environmental planning and management. Since 1996, 41 out of 56 districts have recruited
District Environment Officers (DEOs). In addition, NEMA has helped to recruit 54 environment
inspectors.  To enhance NEMA capacity, the Bank approved the Second Environmental
Management and Capacity Building Project (EMCBP-II) in February 2001.
61.    NEMA 's Capacity in Relation to PRSC3. Currently, NEMA is, and has been, largely
donor-funded. This is a risky situation that creates uncertainty about the sustainability of its
programs. At the district level, similarly, resources and funding to recruit personnel and to make
the DEOs operational are inadequate. This lack of capacity undermines full integration of
environmental concerns at local government and community levels. Several ways to improve
environmental management could be mainstreamed within the framework of PRSC3: (i)
improving the effectiveness of the institutional arrangements to address environmental concerns
across government programs; (ii) integrating environmental risks and opportunities into districts
and municipal government development plans, and taking steps to implement the management
plans; (iii) implementing sectoral environmental policies (such as pest management, agricultural
chemicals, medical waste, forest conservation, etc.); and (iv) ensuring that funding for NEMA is
reflected more in the government budget. At the district and community levels, planning and
decision-making require the appropriate measures to conserve water, soil, and forests, to keep the
human environment healthy; and to ensure that more intensive development in rural and urban
areas does not introduce unmanaged dangers of environmental degradation, displacement, or
tenure conflict. Key to supporting these efforts is continually improving human resources in
environmental management through institutional capacity building and training. NEMA, under
IDA-assisted project, has been building capacity within the sectoral ministries/lead agencies.
18



Annex 6
V.     MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
62.    Environmental and Land Acquisition/Resettlement Monitoring Plan. Monitoring plans
are needed to ensure that adverse environmental impacts are addressed and any land acquisition
and resettlement are adequately implemented and sustained in each of the key sectors which the
PRSC will support. The NEMA statute indicates that "the lead agencies should monitor
compliance and implementation of activities to ensure that the design criteria, mitigation
measures, and monitoring plans are implemented, the monitoring plan should also identify the
key indicators of environmental impacts." A simple and practical array of potential monitoring
indicators is provided below in Table 5.
63.    Relationship of Monitoring Plan to PRSC3 Monitoring.  The monitoring plan for
environment and land acquisition/resettlement is incorporated into the overall PRSC3 monitoring
plan described in the Credit documentation and overseen by the Ministry of Finance, Planning
and Economic Development (MOFPED). Consequently, MOFPED will be the ultimate
information focal point. The relevant sector will be responsible for submitting appropriate
information as described below to the PRSC Steering Committee and PRSC Technical
Committee. The PRSC Steering Committee will provide a report to IDA on the issues addressed
in this Annex on an annual basis. At this point in time, the progress in providing this information
has been less than desirable, and further steps need to be taken to improve this reporting. This
report will be expanded as additional sectors are added to the subsequent annual Credits.
64.    Subsequent PRSCs. In preparing subsequent PRSCs, IDA will include participation of
environmental and resettlement specialists.  These specialists will review  progress in
implementing the Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP). The specialists will coordinate with
other IDA staff in the relevant sectors to ensure that appropriate environmental assessment,
resettlement, and other relevant policy issues are addressed and any consequent management
plans are being implemented. Where additional capacity building is needed, the PRSC team will
work with the selected sector agencies to develop such initiatives. The missions will review the
performance of sectoral procedures and progress in increasing awareness of and appropriate
measures for environmental and other concerns as detailed in this analysis.
19



Annex 6
Table 5. Indicative Monitoring Plan By Sector
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring               Responsibility         Collection Process
Indicators                                       and Frequency
Agriculture/Rural
Development Sector:
Natural Resource          ElAs are prepared by      NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,       Annual records/survey
Degradation in Large-     investors and reviewed (by  NARO, PMA Steering
Scale Agricultural Projects  NEMA); management plan  Committee, and districts.
is integrated into project  Districts are responsible for
implementation           implementing programs
and projects. Activities like
Restriction on the use of  training for service
ecologically sensitive    providers, waste
areas, forest, wetlands, etc.  management, etc., have to
take place in the districts
Soil conservation in     Improved soil and water
Smallholder Agriculture   conservation; judicious
application of agricultural
inputs
Increasing Quantities of  PMP is designed, ensure  NEMA, NAADS, MAAIF,        Annual records/survey
Agro-Chemicals used by    that pesticides are used in  NARO, PMA Steering
Agricultural Activities   accordance with IPM       Committee, districts (see
principles for NAADS      above discussion on the
districts                 districts), and NBS.
Capacity building for
Training for service      community and farmer
providers, farmers, and   level monitoring
stockmen to understand
potential risks and hazards
of pesticides on health and
environment
Agro-chemicals used by
Small Holder Agriculture  MRL (Maximum Residue
Level) is observed
particularly for commercial
crops
Training for appropriate
storage, handling, and
application of
agrochemicals
Waste and effluent from
Agro Processing           Waste management and      In addition to the above
environmental audit for   authorities: selected private
selected agro processing  sectors
facilities
Resettlement                                        Land Commission
Reports of any resettlement
actions based on Land
Tribunals or Land Fund
expenditures
District Roads:           Policy and implementation  MOWHC and Districts      Annual Review
arrangements, including
related environmental
guidelines, for road
construction and
maintenance works
developed and adopted
20



Annex 6
Information
Sector and Issues            Monitoring              Responsibility         Collection Process
Indicators                                       and Frequency
Improvement of
institutional capacity for
transportation and
environmental
management, including
training for staff and
contractors.
Health Sector: Health    EIA or Environmental      MOH, Environmental
Care Waste               Review for construction of  Health Division, NEMA
new facilities           (for review of ElAs),
district health inspectors
Environmental
guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
HCW facilities
Awareness training
incorporated into health
care professional and
technical curriculum
Waste Supply and         EIA or Environmental      DWD Water Resources       Annual Review/Survey
Sanitation Sector        Review for urban large    Division and Technical
(wastewater treatment,   scale construction of new  Support Units at district
sanitation facilities,   facilities                Aevth, otherWNSESMA(f
and water supply and     Environmental             review of ElAs)
distribution)            guidelines/checklist are
prepared and used in
operation stage
Conduct selective/random
environmental audits for
WSS facilities
Awareness training
incorporated for WSS
professionals
21



