Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: ABI16
Project Name                  UGANDA-Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Region                        Africa Regional Office
Sector                        General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%); General public
administration sector (20%); General water, sanitation and flood protection
sector (20%); Health (20%); General education sector (20%)
Theme                         Other environment and natural resources management (P); Other financial and
private sector development (P); Other rural development (P); Other human
development (P); Other public sector govemance (P)
Project                       P074081
Borrower(s)                   THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency(ies)
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Address. Treasury Building, P.O. Box 8147, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mrs. Mary Muduuli, Deputy Secretary
Tel. 256-41-234433     Fax: 256-41-231163        Email.
MCMUD@africaonline.co.ug
Environment Category          B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared             June 10, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date           June 23, 2003
Bank Approval Date            September 4, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Uganda's economic performance in the past decade was impressive, with the average real rate of GDP growth over
six percent per annum The pace of economic growth moderated at the end of 1990s due to a sharp decline in the
tenns of trade, as a result of sharply decreased international coffee prices The economy has, however, started to
pick up again and the GDP growth is registred 6.6 percent in 2002/03 The living standards of Uganda's poor have
also substantially increased in the past ten years since 1992 the incidence of poverty (based on headcount index) has
declined by 38 percent
Despite impressive macroeconomic perfonmance and a dramatic fall in poverty in the 1990s, 35 percent of the
population remain in abject poverty in Uganda Moreover, despite the substantial increase in government resources
allocated for social services, commensurate progress in social and human development has not been forthcoming.
Although key education and health indicators have improved in the past decade, most social indicators are still worse
than the average in the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa Public services are often still inadequate and/or of poor quality.
The Government has responded to these challenges by prepanng a comprehensive medium-tenm development
strategy, the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) The summary of the PEAP served as the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) that was presented to the Boards of the Bank and the Fund in May 2000
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the proposed PRSC3 will be to support the implementation of Uganda's PEAP/PRSP The
credit/grant will not provide support to all the policy measures in the PEAP/PRSP, but will selectively focus on
policy and institutional refonns with the highest poverty impact
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement



2
PID
4. Description
The PRSC3 will continue supporting and further developing the reform program developed under the PRSCI and
PRSC2, emphasizing improved service delivery and agricultural growth  The reform program will attempt to
improve service delivery and promote agricultural growth through
*   Efficient and equitable use of public resources, which is essential for improving public resource allocation and
raising the productivity and cost-efficiency of public investment and other expenditures, and strengthened
financial sector performance  This includes reforms aimed at improving public expenditure management,
strengthening monitoring and evaluation, and improving performance of the pension and insurance sectors
*   Improved governance through cross-cutting public sector reforms, such as the reform of public service and pay,
public procurement, financial management, and measures to increase transparency, civil society participation,
and fight against corruption. The revision of the current public pay structure and human resource management
will help the Government recruit and retain high-quality staff  Improvements in public procurement and
financial management will promote accountability for public resources, and enhanced transparency,
participation, and anti-corruption efforts will help citizens hold their leaders and public officials more
accountable for the quantity and quality of services
*   Promotion of enabling environment for rural development, including steps to improve the effectiveness of
agricultural research and advisory services, and the promotion of rural finance, rural roads, and sustainable
natural resource management Stimulating agricultural and rural growth rates is essential for sustained poverty
reduction, since 96 percent of the poor live in rural areas and most of them earn their living from agriculture.
* Improved access to and quality of education, health care, and *vater and sanitation services Effective delivery
of basic services will not improve unless binding sector-specific constraints are addressed However, many
problems in basic service delivery are beyond the mandate of a particular sector and require collaboration across
ministries and agencies
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.00)
IDA ($150.00)
Total Project Cost: $150 00
6. Implementation
Poverty focused operation.
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
10. List of factual technical documents:



PID
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Satu Kristina Kahkonen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2170
Fax: (202) 473-8262
12 For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:l/ www.worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



