                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank




                                                                                    Report No: 28838

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                             (GRTD-H0630)

                                                 ON A

                                                GRANT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                       FOR A FIRST SERIES OF

                       POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDITS (PRSC1-3)




                                            MARCH 10, 2005




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (Ush)
                                    Ush 1174 = US$ 1:00
                                     US$ 1:00 = Ush 1909

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                      July 1 June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     African Development Bank
AG       Auditor General
AGO      Accountant General's Office
BFP      Budget Framework Paper
BoU      Bank of Uganda
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCS      Commitment and Control System
CDF      Comprehensive Development Framework
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CTB      Central Tender Board
DA       Directorate of Accounts
DEI      Directorate of Ethics and Integrity
DFID     Department for International Development (UK)
DFS      District Forestry Services
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey
DMFI     The Deposit Taking Micro Finance Institutions
DWD      Directorate of Water Development
DWO      District Water Offices
DWST     District Water and Sanitation Team
EFA      Education for All
EFMP II  Second Economic and Financial Management Project
EHD      Environmental Health Department
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EPI      Expanded Program for Immunization
ESIP     Education Sector Investment Plan
ESR      Education Sector Review
EMIS     Education Management Information Systems
ESW      Economic Sector Work
FID      Forestry Inspection Division
GAAP     Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoU      Government of Uganda
GNI      Gross National Income
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HPPG     Harmonized Participatory Planning Guide

HSSP    Health Sector Strategic Plan
ICC     Implementation Coordination Committee
ICPAU   Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Uganda
ICRG    International Country Risk Guide
ICT     Information and Communications Technology
IDA     International Development Association
IFAC    International Federation of Accountants
IFMS    Integrated Financial Management Systems
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPPS    Integrated Pay and Personal System
KfW     Kredit fur Wiederaufbau
LLO     Justice, Law and Order
LGDP    Local Government Development Project
LSSP    Land Sector Strategic Plan
MAAIF   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MAPS    Marketing and Agro Processing Strategy
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI     Micro Finance Institutions
MMR     Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOD     Ministry of Defense
MoES    Ministry of Education and Sports
MoFPED  Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MoH     Ministry of Health
MoI     Ministry of Information
MoIA    Ministry of Internal Affairs
MoJCA   Ministry of Justice and Constitution Affairs
MoLG    Ministry of Local Government
MoPS    Ministry of Public Service
MSEI    Minister of State for Ethics and Integrity
MoTTI   Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Industry
MoWHC   Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
MoWLE   Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment
MTBF    Medium Term Budget Framework
MTCS    Medium Term Competitiveness Strategy
MTEF    Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NAADS   National Agricultural Advisory Services
NAPE    National Assessment of Progress in Education
NARO    National Agricultural Research Organization
NBFI    Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NEMA    National Environmental Management Agency
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NHP     National Health Policy
NMS     National Medical Stores
NPV     Net-Present-Value
NSDS    National Service Delivery Survey
NSSF    National Social Security Fund
NWSC    National Water and Sewerage Corporation
O&M     Operation and Maintenance

OAG     Office of Auditor General
OPD     Out Patient Department
OPM     Office of the Prime Minister
OOB     Output Oriented Budgeting
PAF     Poverty Action Fund
PCC     Policy Coordination Committee
PEAP    Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PEMCOM  Public Expenditure Management Committee
PEAP    Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PMA     Plan for Modernization of Agriculture
PNFP    Private Not-For-Profit
PPA     Participatory Poverty Assessment
PPDA    Public Procurement and Disposal of Asset Authority
PPET    Post Primary Education and Training
PRGF    Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC     Procurement units under Circular Standing
PSIA    Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
RAFU    Road Agency Formation Unit
RCTB    Reformed Central Tender Board
ROM     Results-Oriented Management
SWG     Sector Working Group
TDMS    Teacher Development and Management System
TFR     Total Fertility Rate
TSU     Technical Support Unit
TB      Tuberculosis
UBOS    Uganda Bureau of Statistics
UCDA    Uganda Coffee Development Authority
UN      United Nations
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UPE     Universal Primary Education
UPPAP   Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Project
URA     Uganda Revenue Authority
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VAT     Value Added Tax
WSS     Water Supply and Sanitation




                             Vice President:     Gobind Nankani
                           Country Director:     Judy M. O'Connor
                            Sector Manager:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Bruno Boccara

                                               UGANDA
                    First Series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC 1-3)


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                       Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                         1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               16
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 31
    6. Sustainability                                                                     32
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      33
    8. Lessons Learned                                                                    35
    9. Partner Comments                                                                   37
    10. Additional Information                                                            48
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  49
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  50
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  51
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  52
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  55
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     56
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 57
    Annex 8. Detailed Project Data                                                        59
    Annex 9. Poverty Reduction Support Credit in Uganda -Results of a Stocking Paper      61


    Table 1.   The Consolidated Objectives and Expected Outcomes for PRSC-III               4



Map IBRD 31802

Project ID: P074081                                                  Project Name: Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Team Leader: Bruno Boccara                                           TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 11, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit                   L/C/TF Number: GRTD-H0630
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (40%); General education
                            sector (15%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector
                            (15%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (15%); Health
                            (15%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Environmental policies
                            and institutions (S); Health system performance (S); Education for
                            all (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/03/2002                                     Effective: 02/11/2004                02/11/2004
     Appraisal: 06/12/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/09/2003                                      Closing: 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Robert R. Blake
Team Leader at ICR:             Bruno Boccara                                  Satu Kristiina Kahkonen
ICR Primary Author:             Peter Miovic


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    3.1.1. Background. By the year 2000, when the first PRSC was prepared, Uganda had achieved
    much in reversing massive capital flight, establishing macroeconomic stability, rebuilding key public
    institutions, and revitalizing local civic participation. However, despite a significant reduction in the
    percentage of those living in poverty, about a third of the population still fell below the poverty line
    (headcount of income poverty was 34%), and most of the poor had grossly inadequate access to basic
    services. Reducing poverty in all its dimensions had become the Governments top priority with the
    preparation of the first Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) in 1997. The plan was to utilize an
    approach which combined economic growth, particularly by stimulating agriculture and enterprise,
    while significantly increasing social sector spending. While Uganda's performance at the
    macroeconomic level had been impressive, the transition from a post-conflict "bounce-back" in growth
    to a sustained rapid expansion had been elusive, and Uganda's social indicators were in 2000 still
    mostly below Sub-Saharan African country averages. The Government also had to struggle with high
    levels of corruption at all levels of the public service.

    3.1.2. In 2000, a number of years of analytical work (including a series of household surveys and the
    Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Project (UPPAP), and the experience gained in designing
    and implementing PEAP I. This culminated in the publication of the second Poverty Eradication
    Action Plan (PEAP II), a medium term strategy organized around four "pillars" with the objectives to
    "create an enabling environment for economic growth and structural transformation (Pillar 1); ensure
    good governance and security (Pillar 2); directly increase the ability of the poor to raise their incomes
    through rural development and expansion of non-farm activities (Pillar 3); and directly increase the
    quality of life of the poor through the provision of primary education, health care, and water and
    sanitation services (Pillar 4)".

    3.1.3. With the introduction of the Universal Primary Education Program in 1997, primary school
    enrolments rose dramatically from 3.1 million children in 1996, to 6.6 million, by 2000, with virtual
    equity between boys and girls. However, educational quality and performance could not keep up with
    enrolment successes, due to the limits on how quickly new teachers could be trained (still averaging
    some 63 pupils per teacher in 2000, although down from 100:1 in 1997), inadequate number of
    classrooms (average of 121 students per classroom in 1999), and insufficient teaching materials
    (average of 6.7 students per textbook in core subjects). Poor educational quality was evident in low
    student test scores and high drop-out rates. Enrolments at secondary level were also low, with fewer
    than 20% of school age children entering high school, and a significant proportion of these (63%)
    came from the wealthiest 20% households, with girls strongly under-represented. One of the perennial
    problems plaguing Uganda's education system had been the weakness and corruption in the district
    educational system responsible for the transfer of funds. By 2000, the Government had made
    significant improvements, increasing the proportion of funds reaching schools from 20% in 1995, to
    over 90%. However, there were still long delays in allocated funds arriving, and many problems
    related to utilization.

    3.1.4. Although many efforts had been made over the years to improve its health profile, Uganda's
    indicators were in 2000 still quite poor. Mostly due to the impact of HIV/AIDS, life expectancy at
    birth had declined from 48 years in the mid-1980's to 42 years by 1993/2000 (compared to a
    Sub-Sahara African average of 50 years). Infant mortality rates showed some improvement (88 live
    births per 1000 babies by 2000, as shown by the DHS which is conducted only every 5 years,
    compared to 104 in 1970/75). However, the mortality rate for children under five remained at 147 by



                                                      - 2 -

2000, only a little better than the Sub-Saharan African average of 151, and maternal mortality at 505
per 100,000 live births was among the worst in Africa. While a 1995 study identified HIV/AIDS as
the cause of 9% of premature deaths, the major killer was peri-natal and maternal trauma (20%),
followed by malaria (15%), acute lower respiratory tract infections (11%), and diarrhea (8%). By
2000, Uganda had lost 800,000 victims to HIV/AIDS, resulting in over a million orphans, and social
and economic devastation for the worst affected communities. Although a large proportion of the
rural population had minimal health care, even in terms of the most essential services, there has been
improvement. For example, in 2000, only 46% of children had been immunized before their first
birthday and the outpatient utilization rate was 0.43 visits per capita. Public health facilities were
plagued by quality problems. A 1999 study showed that public health facilities had high levels of
vacancies and heavy reliance on staff that lacked the minimum qualifications. Only 40% of the posts
at clinics were filled by qualified personnel. De-motivation among medical staff due to delays in
salary payments, backlogs in delivery of medicines and materials, delays in transfer of allocated funds,
and sub-standard facilities, further eroded quality. Discontent with public health services has resulted
in a greater reliance on private (especially in the urban areas) and NGO health centers.

3.1.5. In 2000, about 52% of Uganda's population was connected to the National Water and
Sewerage Corporation's services, with a bias towards urban areas, and unequal access among regions.
Capital expenditure for the system depends on donor financing, and Government funds for operation
and maintenance were inadequate. The result was that many services were erratic, and up to 30 % in
rural areas were non-functional. The administration and financial management of the sector had been
marked by inefficiency and waste. The National Water Policy published in 1999, focused on
community driven demand in rural areas, along with improved district management, and private sector
involvement. In urban areas, the policy emphasized private sector participation to commercialize and
improve the efficiency of the sector, professionalize the public management of the sector, and
introduce an independent regulatory system.

3.1.6. PEAP II, prepared in 2000, focused on reducing income (headcount) poverty by supporting
direct measures to maintain a high rate of growth of the economy. It also focused on improving
people's welfare through delivery of services, a number of which would improve people's productivity
and incomes in the longer run. The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2000
supported the goals of the PEAP by providing projects in electric power, roads, and capacity building,
giving programmatic support to basic social services, and delivering the first Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC), which was a new Bank instrument at that time. It was designed to provide
direct budget support to Uganda to help it implement its reform program. The World Bank support in
the case of the PRSCs thus became financial in nature, with attendant doses of expert knowledge but
no assistance in direct implementation (as was the case with projects).

3.1.7. Objectives. The three annual PRSCs were designed as an integrated program, with each
PRSC broadening and deepening its focus with respect to the various aspects of the PEAP, as well as
drawing on the experience as the PRSC process evolved. Goals for PRSC-I were designed to be
achieved at the end of the three year process, with specific benchmarks for each operation as prior
actions for presentation to the World Bank Executive Board along the way. In addition to introducing
its own specific goals, PRSC-II continued the second phase of accomplishment of PRSC-I goals; and
this cumulative process was continued in PRSC-III. By that time, however, the nature of the game
had changed in the sense that the program supported by the PRSCs was a rolling 3-year program. The
program was aligned with the rolling 3-year Medium Term Expenditure Framework. Each year a
previous year was dropped and a new one added in the future. As a result there has been some
expansion of the goal posts, making it harder to define precise objectives.


                                                 - 3 -

    3.1.8. PRSC-I. The goal of PRSC-I was to support selective areas prioritized in the PEAP rather
    than the PEAP as a whole. PRSC-I focused on improving the delivery of basic services in health,
    education, and water supply and sanitation. This was to be achieved by (i) raising the productivity
    and cost-efficiency of public investment and expenditures; (ii) strengthening public sector performance
    through revision of the public salary structure and improved human resource management practices;
    (iii) improving governance through reforms in procurement, financial management, and monitoring
    and evaluation; (iv) increasing transparency and participation in public administration, and fighting
    corruption; and (v) initiating processes by which sector constraints could be identified and removed
    through collaboration across sectoral ministries and agencies.

    3.1.9. PRSC-II. PRSC-II incorporated the goals of PRSC-I along with updates and refinements
    based on the experience of PRSC-I. In addition, PRSC-II, focused on the Third Pillar of the PEAP,
    i.e. directly increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes. As 85 percent of Ugandans (and
    96 percent of Uganda's poor) live in rural areas, Uganda's core strategy to directly increase incomes
    is the Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA) which aims to transform subsistence
    agriculture to commercial agriculture. In accordance with the PMA framework, PRSC-II aimed to (i)
    improve the responsiveness and impact of publicly funded agricultural research; (ii) increase access
    and effectiveness of agricultural advisory services; (iii) stimulate financially sustainable microfinance
    institutions with greater access for the poor to financial services; (iv) provide for the more effective
    use and management of land resources, more secure tenure rights, and access to land for women and
    orphans; (v) reduce the level and risk of environmental degradation by integrating environmental
    priorities in sector-wide government programs; and (vi) increase access to markets in rural areas
    through improvement of the network of district roads.

    3.1.10. PRSC-III. PRSC-III updated, refined and consolidated all of the goals of PRSC-I and II,
    focusing on actions to deepen reforms in most of the sectors covered in the first two PRSCs, and
    incorporating additional financial sector issues such as pensions. PRSC-III, therefore, has the most
    comprehensive statement of goals for the three-year PRSC cycle, although it also began to outline
    what was to be achieved in PRSC IV and beyond. The goals and expected outcomes of the first
    3-year PRSC cycle are summarized in Table 1. Details are found in the full policy matrix in the PRSC
    documentation.

Table 1: The Consolidated Objectives and Expected Outcomes for PRSC-III

  PEAP Pillar         Objectives         Areas                 Results Indicators
  Framework for       Improve                                   Better alignment of public expenditures
  economic            efficiency and     Allocations and       with PEAP priorities
  growth and          equity in use      actual                 MTEF includes donor-financed projects
  transformation      of public          expenditure           and wage bill
                      resources                                 Timely and predictable resource flows
                                                                Publication of periodic budget
                                                               performance reports
                                       Inter-governmental      Streamlined inter-governmental transfers
                                       transfers
                                       Results-oriented         Enhanced results-orientation of sector
                                       monitoring and          programs
                                       evaluation (M&E)         Strengthened responsibilities and methods



                                                      - 4 -

                                                of M&E
            Strengthen                          Improved functioning of pension and
            financial sector                    insurance system
Ensuring    Improve public Public service        Reformed public sector pay system
good        sector          management           Improved payroll and personnel
governance management                           management
and         system and                           Controlled expansion of public
security    practices                           administration
                                                 New phase of public service reform
                                                launched
                             Public              Reformed public procurement system
                             procurement        including legal and regulatory framework,
                                                and planning
                                                 Strengthened enforcement of procurement
                                                rules and regulations
                             Financial           Updated legal and regulatory framework
                             management          Improved central and district accounting
                                                and reporting
                                                 Strengthened audit structures and practices
            Enhancing       Transparency        Improved access to public information
            transparency,
            participation,
            and
            anti-corruption
                             Detection,         Improved detection, investigation, and
                             investigation, and prosecution of corruption cases
                             prosecution
                             Civil society      Strengthened NGO legal and regulatory
                             participation      framework
                                                Harmonized use of participatory
                                                approaches
                             Legal and          Reformed judicial enforcement of
                             Judicial Reform    commercial contracts
Increasing Promoting        Agricultural        Improved responsiveness and effectiveness
ability of  enabling        research and        of publicly funded agricultural research
the poor to environment for technology
raise       rural
incomes     development
                             Agricultural       Increased access to improved agricultural
                             advisory services  advisory services
                             Rural finance      Improved capacity and outreach for
                                                micro-finance institutions
                             Agro-processing    Reduced constraints to agro-processing
                             and marketing      and marketing
                             Natural resource   Prioritized implementation of 1998 Land
                             management of      Act
                             land               Better access for women and orphans to
                                                land


                                          - 5 -

                                      Environmental         Environmental sustainability priorities
                                      management            integrated into all government programs
                                      District Roads        Improved network of district roads
       Directly     Improving        Primary Education      Pupil-teacher ratio reduced to 50:1
       increasing access to and                             Pupil-textbook ratio reduced to 3:1 in P4
       the quality quality of                               Pupil-classroom ratio reduced to 88:1
       of life for education
       the poor
                                      Post-primary          Strategy for expansion of post-primary
                                      education             education implemented
                    Improving        Health care            Rationalized health care financing
                    access to and    financing
                    quality of health
                    care
                                      Drug                  Strengthened procurement and
                                      procurement and       management of drugs and medical supplies
                                      management
                                      Human resources       Increased health human resources
                                      Health                Improved health infrastructure
                                      infrastructure
                    Improving        Rural WSS              Strengthened, decentralized planning,
                    access to and                           implementation, and management of rural
                    equity of water                         WSS
                    and sanitation
                    services(WSS)
                                                            Improved central government provision of
                                                            WSS technical assistance to local
                                                            governments
                                                            Increased use of local private sector for
                                                            WSS construction, spare part distribution,
                                                            and maintenance
                                                            Completed strategy for national hygiene
                                                            promotion, sanitation, and communication
                                      Small towns           New WSS management framework
                                      WSS                   implemented for small towns
                                                            Commercialized WSS operations
                                                            introduced
                                      Urban WSS             Improved financial sustainability of urban
                                                            WSS delivery


3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1. As indicated above, PRSC-III incorporated and consolidated the objectives and outcomes for
PRSC-I and PRSC-II, while introducing some additional focus areas, all of them within the original
framework laid out by the two previous operations. Where progress had been stalled or new issues had
emerged, PRSC-III refined the statement of goals and introduced additional measures. However, as these
remain consistent with the original goals, they do not constitute revised objectives.




                                                    - 6 -

3.3 Original Components:
    The three PRSCs were conceived and implemented as parts of a three year PRSC Program.
    Therefore, this ICR will consider all of the components together, as a single package implemented over
    a three year period. Each component responded to a key Pillar of the PEAP. Again, it should be kept
    in mind that each PRSC was prepared on a rolling basis, a new one replacing the old, with some
    refinement of objectives. Separate "simplified" ICRs have been prepared for PRSC 1 and 2. The
    ratings are identical.

    3.3.1. PEAP Pillar I: Framework for Economic Growth and Transformation. The components
    under this Pillar were concerned with enhancing the efficient and equitable use of public resources,
    and strengthening the financial sector. This includes reaching annual agreements between the GOU
    and key stake-holders (including donors) on the allocations of strategic expenditures in the MTEF to
    ensure adequate provision of direct poverty-reducing funds. The MTEF would also incorporate all
    donor-funded projects and the GOU wage bill. Some components focused on improved delivery of
    financial resources, including measures taken to streamline the timeliness and predictability of
    intergovernmental transfers through merging the delivery of development and recurrent transfers, and
    strengthening decentralized fiscal management capacity. Further measures were taken to strengthen
    financial management performance in terms of soundness, efficiency, and access, focusing especially
    on pension reform, and enforcing compliance of new insurance regulations. Finally, some components
    focused on the monitoring, evaluation, and follow-up processes concerned with public expenditure.
    These included a component to improve the tracking of regular expenditures, especially in the social
    sectors. This component also included actions to strengthen the Monitoring and Evaluation
    procedures and accountabilities, based upon an enhancement of results-orientation of sector programs
    (by refining output and outcome goals and targets). Another component, aimed at reducing the
    deviations between budgeted and actual expenditures introduced semi-annual budget performance
    reports (quarterly, if requested).

    3.3.2. PEAP Pillar II: Ensuring Good Governance and Security. The components under this
    Pillar were concerned with ensuring the level of governance needed to support the effective delivery of
    public services. These components were designed within the framework of strengthening
    decentralization, reducing Uganda's seemingly chronic corruption problems, and providing the
    necessary level of law, order and security. Some components focused specifically on the Public
    Service, and included measures to implement a government pay reform strategy consistent with the
    MTEF, and supportive of improved service delivery goals. This included upgrading the incentive
    structure for the groups of civil servants identified as associated with the most important reforms
    needed to remove constraints on effective service delivery. Alongside, a component focused on
    improving payroll and personnel management to reduce the delays in incorporating new government
    recruits into the government payroll (which has been creating morale problems), strengthening internal
    payroll controls to eliminate fraud, and instituting a computerized Integrated Pay and Personnel
    System (IPPS). Another companion component was the launching of a new phase of public service
    reform, based on substantial gains made by Uganda's previous public sector capacity building efforts
    in the early 1990's. A macro-level component focused on measures to control the significant
    expansion that has taken place in the public service since 1997.

    3.3.3 A second group of components focused on the problem of tackling Uganda's weak public
    procurement system which has lacked adequate planning, efficiency, transparency, and inspection.
    One component focused on updating the legal and regulatory framework for public procurement
    through the establishment of a Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority (PPDA)
    to replace the old Central Tender Board. This was to be supported by the establishment of


                                                     - 7 -

procurement units to provide technical support to all procurement functions in central government, and
eventually local government, along with capacity building to ensure these units would have the
required expertise. The PPDA was to issue quarterly reports on all contracting over $200,000, and
carry out independent procurement audits of all central government procurements and at least 30% of
local government procurement.

3.3.4. A third group of components focused on strengthening governmental financial management to
ensure effective transfer of allocated resources, and strengthen financial discipline and fiduciary
responsibility, especially at the local government level. These components were to be implemented
within the context of an updated legal and institutional framework for financial management under a
new Public Finance and Accountability Act, and a Public Expenditure Management Committee
(PEMCOM) to oversee public expenditure reforms. Other measures focused on improving accounting
and reporting practices both within central and district government, by increasing the percentage of
districts and urban authorities that produce their annual accounts within the statutory four month
deadline, from 40 percent (in 2002/3) to 90 percent (in 2003/4); reconciling previously un-reconciled
public accounts; issuing quarterly interim financial statements; clearing the backlog of Treasury
memoranda; strengthening the capacity of the Public Accounts Committee; launching of capacity
building programs for financial management and budget staff within central and local government
agencies; and the implementation, on a pilot basis, of a new Integrated Financial Management System
(IFMS) in six central ministries and four local governments.

3.3.5. These financial management strengthening components were accompanied by a number of
measures aimed at strengthening audit structures and practices. These included the appointment of an
Auditor General with international accounting qualifications, with measures to ensure that the Office
of the Auditor General (OAG) has full independence and unfettered access to public expenditure
information, and the appointment of quality assurance managers to work with sharpened guidelines to
improve the quality of audits. The audit components set the target of increasing the percentage of
district and urban authority annual accounts audited from 46% (in 2002/3) to 90 percent (in 2003/4).

3.3.6. Finally, under Pillar II, the PRSC program included components aimed at improving
transparency and participation in governmental operations, and reducing corruption. These
components included measures to improve the access of the population to public information through
the implementation of a communications strategy relating to fiscal policy and the budget; and open
public access to facts relating to the income and assets of senior government officials under a new
Leadership Code. Other measures aimed at strengthening the detection, investigation, and prosecution
of corruption cases through the consolidation of several tiers of anti-corruption legislation into a
comprehensive Anticorruption Act to provide a more effective basis for fighting corruption and
misappropriation of public assets, barring individuals and companies found guilty of corrupt practices
from access to government contracts, and recovering stolen assets. IGG's enforcement capacity was
to be sharpened through improved quantitative indicators to assess progress in the fight against
corruption. A companion Whistleblower Bill was to be enacted to provide necessary whistleblower
protections. Measures were designed to enhance the enforcement of commercial contracts through a
commercial justice reform program which included strengthening the access and case processing of the
Commercial Court; the establishment of a center for Alternative Dispute Resolution; the strengthening
of land and company registries; and the revision of commercial laws.

3.3.7. The measures aimed at strengthening public participation, focused on the implementation of a
harmonized framework for community participation in service delivery, supported by a computerized
data-base of NGOs and faith-based organizations. Surveys were carried out on the functions and


                                                - 8 -

capacities of Ugandan NGOs to form the basis of the NGO Act aimed at strengthening the
participative role of NGOs in Uganda's development program.

3.3.8. PEAP Pillar III: Directly Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes. Under
this pillar, the PRSC program (which was a new component added in PRSC II) focused on measures
to help increase the rate of agricultural growth, diversify agricultural production, and expand
non-farm employment. A number of components addressed improvements in the responsiveness of
agricultural research (through the implementation of a new strategy for agricultural research); and
increasing farmers' access to and the effectiveness of agricultural advisory services (through the
implementation of the National Agricultural Advisory services (NAADS) Program, a demand-driven
program giving farmers, and especially women's groups, access to needed agricultural services.
Components aimed at improving agro-processing and marketing, included the production and
implementation of an integrated Marketing and Agro-processing Strategy to remove existing
constraints, and a redefinition the role of the Uganda Coffee Development Authority (UCDA) to
support niche-market development and market-oriented quality standards. A Warehouse Receipt
System Act was aimed at providing the legal framework for the system of warehouse bonding and the
issuance of warehouse receipts. Support to especially poor and marginal farmers was addressed in a
component to implement the 1998 Land Act in a manner that promotes the access to land of women
and orphans, through implementation of an action plan to increase awareness of land rights among
women and other marginal groups, and implementation of pilot schemes to strengthen common
property management systems through registration of communal land associations, and provision of
model constitutions for their operation.

3.3.9. Companion components addressed the need to upgrade the network of district roads, including
the endorsement of an improved national policy for the planning, construction, and maintenance of
district roads, to form the basis of a ten-year district roads investment program ready for
implementation by April 2004, supported by the establishment of technical offices to assist district
government implementation. Other components addressed the need to integrate environmental
sustainability priorities in government programs, supported by the implementation of improved
National Environmental Management Agency (NEMA) guidelines (including environmental
monitoring indicators). These were to be accompanied by manuals and guidelines for use of local
governments in preparing district environmental action plans, and an increase of government funding
to NEMA to cover 50 percent of their recurrent budget. To ensure effective attention to forestry
assets, the environmental components included the launching of a National Forestry Plan supported by
the National Forestry and Tree Planting Act, and the launching of the National Forestry Authority and
district forestry services.

3.3.10. Strengthening of non-farm employment was to be supported by measures aimed at improving
the operating capacity of micro-finance institutions, within the implementation of the Microfinance
Deposit-taking Institutions Act, that would license micro-finance institutions to operate as financial
intermediaries. This was to be supported by a government outreach program to strengthen the
capacity of these institutions.

3.3.11. PEAP Pillar IV: Directly Increasing the Quality of Life of the Poor. To contribute to the
achievement of the goals of this Pillar, the PRSC program focused on improvements in primary
education, health care, and access to safe water and sanitation. The primary education components
were designed within the framework of semi-annual government-led education sector reviews
involving all major stakeholders (government, donors, NGOs) to monitor progress, set quantitative
targets, and track quality through key indicators. The components aimed at increasing the net rate of


                                                 - 9 -

enrolment in the final (P7) primary grade; increasing the primary completion rate; and maintaining
gender balance in primary enrollments. One set of measures focused on reducing the pupil-teacher
ratio from 63:1 in 2000, to 50:1 in 2003/4, by launching a national recruitment drive for primary
school teachers, improve incentives for teachers to go to remote areas, improve payroll management
for teachers, and provide in-service training for unqualified teachers through the Teacher Development
and Management System (TDMS). A second set focused on reducing the pupil-textbook ratio from
6.7:1 in 2000, to 3:1 in 2003/4, by new procurement arrangements to improve quality and reduce unit
costs of text books. These were to be supported by a base-line assessment to facilitate the
measurement of progress, the procurement of a wide-range of non-textbook materials, and the training
of teachers to use new instructional materials. A third set of measures focused on reducing the
pupil-classroom ration from 121:1 in 1999, to 88:1 in 2003/4, through implementation of a classroom
construction program under a national plan for expansion of school facilities. To improve monitoring
of progress under these primary education components, measures were to include the implementation
of a framework for monitoring educational quality outcomes, which includes indicators to monitor
student progress in literacy and numeracy. Finally, the education components included a focus on
improving post-primary educational expansion through launching the implementation of a strategic
framework for post-primary education.

3.3.12. The PRSC health care components focused on improving the quality and effectiveness of
health care service delivery, based on goals of the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP). The HSSP,
which emphasizes the delivery of a minimum health care package of cost effective interventions, and is
implemented under a sector-wide approach involving semi-annual joint sector reviews that monitor
progress, identify and address constraints, and establish targets. The implementation of HSSP is
monitored against 20 key health indicators. The PRSC components focused on rationalizing the
financing of health care by channeling donor financing through the government budget in order to
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of health care spending. Specific components addressed the
actions needed to strengthen logistics and management of drugs and medical supplies through the
implementation of a National Drug Policy and Pharmaceutical Strategic Plan (based on tracking
studies that identified key ways of improving drug management and supply). Other supportive
measures included the establishment of a fund to provide credit to districts to procure drugs,
consolidation of the health sector payroll into one under the PHC conditional grant and formation of
an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate actions relevant for the training of health care staff by
both public and privately run health schools, within a new human resource development policy for the
health sector. Finally, PRSC health components focused on the need to improve Uganda's rundown
health infrastructure through the implementation of a National Health Infrastructure Development and
Maintenance Plan, which aims to rationalize the distribution of health facilities, rehabilitate existing
structures, and to speed the construction of facilities to under-served areas through the use of
minimum new construction standards and improved flow of funds for construction and maintenance.
These components were included to help raise to 47% the proportion of health facilities staffed by
qualified health workers, increase the DPT3 vaccination coverage for infants from 63% (2000) to 75%
(2003/4); increase the utilization of out-patient facilities from 0.40 per capita (2000) to 0.65 per
capita (2003/4); reduce the adult HIV prevalence from 6.5% (2000) to 5% (2003/4); ensure that 28
percent of deliveries take place assisted by trained health workers (from 21% in year 2000); and
reduce the rates of infant and maternal mortality.

3.3.13. The WSS components of the PRSC program were aimed at achieving a sector wide approach
that would increase the supply of WSS services, reduce the rural-urban and regional inequalities,
increase utilization of facilities, and improve the sustainability of services. The goals of these
components were governed by the Government's National Water Policy of 1999, and the subsequent


                                                 - 10 -

     formulation of rural and urban sub-sector strategies. At the center, PRSC components supported
     efforts to strengthen the effectiveness of the Directorate of Water Department (DWD) through the
     implementation of a reorganization plan for DWD. Accompanying PRSC components included
     measures to strengthen decentralized local government planning, implementation, and management of
     WSS, through the establishment of District Water and Sanitation Teams (DWSTs) to cover all
     districts, the implementation of a revised structure and staffing for the District Water Offices
     (DWOs), and the implementation of a WSS operational manual and implementation guidelines for
     districts assisted by eight Technical Support Units. Another component supported the goal of
     developing and utilizing local private contractors for engineering, construction, spare-part distribution,
     and maintenance of local WSS facilities under the implementation of a National Maintenance
     Strategy. PRSC also supported the development and implementation of a national hygiene promotion,
     sanitation, and communications strategy for implementation through trained community extension
     workers, and the distribution of a Community Resource Handbook to strengthen community
     management and utilization of WSS services. These rural WSS PRSC components were aimed at
     increasing rural access to safe water and sanitation from 55 percent (2000) to 65 percent by April
     2005, at an average investment of US$50 per capita. Functionality of WSS facilities was to be
     maintained at a minimum of 80 percent; and the average time spent fetching water, reduced to below
     30 minutes (2000).

     3.3.14. The PRSC urban WSS components included measures to introduce local or international
     private operators under a clear contractual relationship with government, to include a management
     contract for the operations of the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), and the
     implementation of an Urban WSS Policy and Investment Program, which would result in WSS
     systems being transferred to an asset holding authority, and privatized operations management. To
     strengthen the financial sustainability of NWSC and attract private investment, PRSC included
     measures by which the government would settle NWSC's outstanding arrears of Ush 7.58 billion; and
     the adoption of a simplified tariff structure which includes a pro-poor focus. For small urban areas,
     PRSC supported the development of small towns WSS management strategy, and privatised
     operations management. These urban WSS PRSC components were aimed at increasing urban access
     to safe water and sanitation from 55 percent (2000) to 70 percent by April 2005, at an average
     investment of US$150 per capita.

3.4 Revised Components:
Because the three PRSCs were conceived and implemented as part of a three-year PRSC Program, the
intention was to ensure continuity while learning from experience and refining and adding to the various
components as needed. This approach was an integral part of the PRSC implementation strategy, and
therefore the various refinements and improvements do not constitute revisions to PRSC components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
     3.5.1. Rating. The overall quality at entry for PRSC I was not carried out. However, there was an
     assessment by QAG (the Quality Assurance Group of the World Bank) of PRSC II.(Quality at Entry
     Assessment (QEA6) by of PRSC-II (dated 7/23/2002). This assessment was taken into account in
     designing PRSC III. The assessment rated the overall quality at entry of the PRSC II as Satisfactory,
     and Highly Satisfactory in Strategic Relevance and Approach, Fiduciary Aspects, and in Bank Inputs
     and Processes. The operation was well focused on the priority PEAP reform areas, and a high level of
     Government involvement and ownership which increased the prospects for successful implementation.
     PRSC-II was described as a major step forward in helping the Ugandan government escape the
     institutional fragmentation that has usually accompanied project financing. It was found that PRSC
     II systematically built on reforms initiated under PRSC-I, providing a clear road map for the reform



                                                     - 11 -

process over the remaining PRSC Program time horizon. The assessment also regarded the PRSC as
a useful means to improve donor partnership and coordination.

3.5.3. The assessment also found that many of the PRSC II actions were either procedural steps to be
taken by various government bodies (e.g., preparation of strategies, proposals or Cabinet submissions)
or inputs (hiring of consultants and staff, creation of new organizational units), and were not
necessarily closely linked with the end results desired in terms of improvements on the ground in the
performance of government agencies and the delivery of public services. The assessment found the
descriptions of some of the actions in Schedule 1 vague, which would make it difficult to monitor the
quality of achievements and their real impact. The operation was judged not to have reflected
consistently good judgments about the likely time required to complete some required actions.

3.5.4. The assessment of PRSC II found that the PAD did not provide adequate analysis of key
macroeconomic issues such as the desired characteristics of the medium term fiscal framework or the
risks that large aid inflows will cause excessive exchange rate appreciation. Neither did the PAD
provide indication of the fiscal costs of the proposed reforms. In its view, it would therefore be
difficult to judge whether the MTEF would allow the Government to actually incur expenditures at the
level necessary to ensure achievement of established target outcomes. In the event, this continued to
be the case in PRSCs III and IV and it is only in PEAP III, currently under preparation, that a costing
exercise is supposed to be carried out.

3.5.5. The assessment of PRSC II stated that there is little evidence in the PAD that consultations or
other analysis have been carried out as part of the PRSC process to determine the views of
stakeholders about some of these politically sensitive reform measures supported by the PRSC, and to
gauge the likelihood of policy reversals due to adverse reactions of vested interests. The report also
observed that given the complexity and difficulty of the many institution-building reforms in the
PRSC, along with the fact that the Ugandan Government lacked strong human resource capability,
substantial technical assistance would be needed, over an extended period of time, for successful
implementation. The PAD did not provide a systematic assessment of technical assistance needs and
how these would be met, and that the absence of needed technical assistance could pose a risk for the
quality and timely completion of the reform process.

3.5.6. Consistency with the CAS. The PRSC Program has been consistent with the Bank Group's
Country Assistance Strategy for Uganda, November 16, 2000 (Report 20886-UG). The CAS
priorities were to maintain macroeconomic stability, but to shift the focus increasingly to sector-level
and cross-cutting public sector management issues. The goal was to replicate within sector
management the excellent policy and implementation record established at the macroeconomic level.
The PRSC program was regarded as the Bank's key instrument in supporting this effort. In terms of
the Bank strategy, the PRSC program was also a response to the fact that Bank-supported sector
investment projects were not always well integrated with other sector activities, and suffered from low
sustainability. Because other donors focused on their own aid delivery mechanisms, the development
of government systems for managing sector development had received only limited support. The
initiation of the PRSC process was also a response to requests by GOU for a change in donor lending
modalities, on these grounds: that macroeconomic progress had reduced the need for traditional
structural adjustment lending; Uganda's improved planning and budget management provided
confidence that public resources, augmented by those provided by the PRSCs and associated donor
funding, would be allocated to PEAP priorities; there was a need to enact comprehensive reforms both
across sectors and across the system as a whole, for which investment projects were sometimes too
narrow; and there was a need to improve coordination of donor support for a country-owned program.


                                                - 12 -

The shift to the PRSC was consistent with the principles of the Comprehensive Development
Framework (CDF) and acted as a bridge between the CAS and the PEAP. The Bank strategy
therefore envisaged, with the inception of the PRSC mechanism, a decline in the relative weight of
investment projects in the Bank portfolio for Uganda, with investment projects thereafter concentrating
mainly on infrastructure and capacity building.

3.5.7. Coordination with African Development Bank (AfDB). The World Bank and AfDB
cooperate under a joint memorandum of understanding. The preparation of each phase of the PRSC
program ensured consistency between Bank and AfDB, the support programs of both organizations
focusing on key PEAP goals of strengthening agriculture and rural development, and equitable access
to basic services in education, health, and WSS. AfDB provided a Poverty Reduction Support Loan
(PRSL) which was consistent with the PRSC, and with the reduction of World Bank support through
investment projects, AfDB projects filled some of that gap.

3.5.8. Coordination with IMF. With the adoption of the PRSC modality, the IMF was to continue
its focus on macroeconomic and financial sector issues, especially short-term macroeconomic stability,
financial sector regulation and supervision, and factors influencing long-term financial sustainability.
It was agreed that World Bank and IMF staff would continue to work together in areas of fiscal
decentralization and financial sector and governance priorities, on the updating of the Uganda's Debt
Sustainability Analysis, and in joint assessments of PRSPs. In September 2002, the IMF approved a
new three year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) which was closely coordinated with
the PRSC Program, the PRSC focusing on social, structural, and governance priorities, and the PRGF
concentrating on monetary and exchange rate policy, expenditure management, local government
accountability, financial sector supervision, and tax administration.

3.5.9. Coordination with Other Donors. The World Bank worked closely with the donor group in
Uganda on the development of the PRSC priorities and prior actions. Several donors (Germany,
Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, SIDA and the UK), agreed to support the PEAP with
programmatic grants utilizing progress against the PRSC policy matrix and prior actions as an
important, but not necessarily the only, trigger for their disbursements. Other donors (EU, AfDB))
agreed to align their own support programs with the PRSC and participate in l appraisals and reviews.
The cooperation of the donor group was established in accordance with the agreed Partnership
Principles governing government-donor relations.

3.5.10. Bank Safeguard Policies. Because of the strong sectoral orientation of the program, the
PRSCs were subject to the safeguard requirements for SECACs (OP 4.01). As a Category B
operation, PRSC-III incorporated the environmental assessments conducted for PRSC-I and PRSC-II
for health, water and sanitation, and rural development. The detailed analysis was included as Annex
6 in the PRSC-III Program Document (Report No. 26078-UG). The analysis identified potential
environmental risks linked to medical waste, construction of school facilities, design and sustainability
of WSS facilities, and agricultural pesticide usage. Social concerns included access to safe water
among those who cannot afford such services, community role in selecting, operating and maintaining
water services, and potential conflict over land use and common property resources. The government
and implementing agencies, with the help of the World Bank and other donors, worked to create a
viable framework to improve environmental sustainability in the sectors covered by PRSC, and to
identify and monitor key safeguard issues. It might be noted that in a typical World Bank project
safeguard issues such as management of fiduciary risks or environmental aspects, there are typically a
set of actions that are implemented under the guidance of a Project Implementation Unit. Since PRSCs
are just a funding instrument, safeguards are supposedly implemented within the overall reform


                                               - 13 -

program of the PEAP (supported by the PRSC). It is not clear that in the area of environment nearly
as many actions were taken as in the fiduciary area, starting with inadequate support of the recurrent
costs of NEMA by the Government.

3.5.11. Design. The three PRSC operations constituting the PRSC Program, were all one-year,
single tranche operations, with disbursements taking place at project effectiveness based on the
government's satisfactory accomplishment of Prior Actions. This simple design ensured that key
essential reforms needed to support the goals of each phase of the PRSC program would be enacted
up-front, thus giving the PRSC lending modality strong advantages compared to SACs, which had a
history of protracted negotiations and sometimes disputes in Uganda over the satisfaction of tranche
release triggers. Prior Actions, taken as a package, show a consistent unfolding of a reform package
designed to assist the accomplishment of PEAP objectives. The design ensured a high level of
continuity from PRSC-I to PRSC-III, with opportunities at each stage to take stock, learn from
experience, and refine the project components and Prior Actions as needed. In principle, therefore, the
design of PRSC instrument in Uganda supports the strengthening of national self-reliance, encourages
continuous monitoring and learning from experience, and facilitates coordination across government
agencies, between government and donors, and among donors.

3.5.12. There are, however, some potential problems in the design of all three PRSC operations. The
first has been referred to above in the QAG assessment (3.5.3 above), namely the way the various
goals have been couched. In many cases, what are described as results or outputs, are in fact simply
procedural or process outputs which are pre-requisites perhaps for actions that may ultimately lead to
poverty-reducing impacts. These would, of course, be valuable accomplishments for the project and
potentially for the country. The contribution of the accomplishment of these actions to poverty
reduction could have been made clearer.       It may make sense for future PRSCs to define in what way
they will reduce poverty (e.g. from the welfare point of view by improving service delivery to the
lowest quintiles; or by reducing income poverty, etc.) in order to allow for sharper focus in the
measures to be taken. For example, PRSC I discusses poverty both in income terms (paragraph
14-17) and in terms of how social and human development improve future income earning capacity of
the population and how poor public sector performance (ability to deliver the services for social and
human development) is one of the main constraints to economic development and poverty reduction.
And while the objectives of the PRSCs were focused largely on improved service delivery, the overall
outcome was to be verified through a headcount of poverty as well as satisfaction with service
delivery. If headcount poverty was really to be one of the outcomes, the PRSCs should probably have
been more focused on supporting areas of the PEAP that were more concerned with the achievement
of growth and (income) poverty reduction. On the other hand, while the income/consumption poverty
intervention model was not particularly well articulated at the time the first PRSC was being prepared,
there had been a considerable body of findings in what needed doing to improve service delivery and
how that could be accomplished. The path taken in the end, i.e. that of focusing the PRSCs on service
delivery, thus makes sense, it is just that the ex ante case was not argued in a particularly convincing
way. Ex post everyone agrees that the PRSCs so far have been focused on the dimensions of poverty
that can be reduced through better service delivery, rather than on the reduction in income poverty.

3.5.13. The question of the counter-factual also arises. The World Bank assistance strategy in
1999/2000 was to move from largely project instruments which in a number of cases were not
working (education, health, water and sanitation), to sector-based policy instruments, especially in the
social areas. These would be complemented by projects in power and roads to underpin growth and
by supporting the development of capacity at the local government level. In retrospect, the success in
service delivery in education, water and sanitation, and less so in health, suggests that the PRSC


                                                 - 14 -

sector-wide, across-the-board, approach has been successful. It also lowered the transaction costs and
helped strengthen the strategic focus in a number of other sectors. It seems a reasonable conclusion
that the PRSC approach was better than the counter-factual.

3.5.14. The other design issue, is the vague way many of the results are couched. A few examples
are given here (references are to paragraph numbers in the PRSC-III Program Document Report No.
26078-UG): "improved performance of the pension system and insurance industry" (92); "increased
efficiency, transparency and reduced corruption in public procurement, and better management of
expenditure programs" (107); "reduced fiduciary risk at central and local government level" (116);
"harmonized framework for community participation in service delivery" (122); reduced level and risk
of environmental degradation" (137); "improved learning outcomes" (151); "rationalized financing of
the health sector" (158). There are many more like these. This approach poses a number of problems.
Firstly, it is not clear in these and other examples how much the PRSC program intended to
accomplish. The second problem is that because of the lack of specificity, the government does not
have clear expectations of what needs to be accomplished within a given time-frame. This encourages
slippages. Thirdly, it is almost impossible, given the generality of results like these, to evaluate not
only whether the PRSC has accomplished its goals, but also the extent and value of that
accomplishment. How, for example, is it possible to measure "reduced level and risk of environmental
degradation"? What aspects of this huge problem are supposed to have been impacted by the actions
prescribed in the PRSC? How would one recognize an improvement? How much of an improvement
would one expect to detect? And so on.

3.5.15. Risks. The overall development program of Uganda faces a variety of risks, chief among
them, limited institutional capacity and scarce expertise. This is especially true at the local level
which has assumed a huge responsibility for both planning and implementation as a result of Uganda's
incremental process of decentralization. Uganda has over the years instituted some well-designed
capacity building programs, which have in many ways transformed the performance of a state that
was hardly functional in 1986, to a public sector that functions well in many respects, particularly in
terms of macro-economic management, and core economic agencies including the Ministry of Finance,
Planning and Economic Development (MFPED) and the Central Bank. These improvements have
been mirrored in a stable macroeconomic environment and one of the strongest economic growth
performances in Africa over the last decade. However, these achievements pertain mainly to the
capacity at the center while most of the implementation of service delivery occurs through the sectors
at the local level.

3.5.16. Continuing weakness in public sector capacity is aggravated by ubiquitous corruption, which
the government has confronted, but which endures in small ways throughout the system, and has
presented an even greater hazard with the decentralization to local government. The government has a
clear understanding of these problems and has enacted many measures to deal with them. Some
progress is being made, but the risks persist, as shown by recurring scandals and in public perception
surveys. Both corruption and weaknesses in institutional capacity at the local (service delivery) level
were bound to make fiduciary risks of the PRSCs high.

3.5.17. Finally, Uganda's external trade structure in year 2000 was fairly undiversified and neither its
industrial sector not commercialized agriculture had been growing sufficiently fast during the 1990's
to help with the needed transformation of the economy. It was by no means clear then, that in the near
future (2000-2003), Uganda could achieve an overall rate of economic growth that was high enough
and of the kind that would result in a significant reduction in (income) poverty. In fact, data from the
recent household survey suggest that, in terms of private consumption, economic growth seems to have


                                                - 15 -

     mainly benefited the wealthiest, urban sectors of the economy, and increased the gap between rich and
     poor, with an actual increase in the income/consumption poverty head-count over the past three years.
     Uganda today remains largely dependent on subsistence agriculture, with only modest progress in the
     development of non-agricultural enterprise and the export basket is still highly dependent on coffee.
     This, along with the surprisingly high population growth numbers that came out of the recent census,
     have triggered some serious rethinking of what is to be done. However, the risks had been evident
     (and were identified) at the start of the PRSC cycle.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. The PRSC program outcome is assessed as Satisfactory for the reasons explained below. First
comes a section evaluating the broad program objectives, followed by an evaluation of component
objectives broadly following the Results Indicators in the right-most column of Table 1. In addition, all
Prior Actions for the three operations had been substantially taken, although in a number of cases with
some delay.

4.1.2. Contribution to Macroeconomic Stability and Financial Resource Management. While Uganda
maintained its macroeconomic stability and kept inflation below PEAP targets, the country's recent GDP
growth rate has been too slow to continue the trend in (income) poverty reduction of the 1990's. Some of
the slowdown is attributable to the weakened terms of trade over the period in question, and to the
continued conflict in the North. Some, however, as indicated in the Risks section above (3.5.15-17), may
be due to other factors.

4.1.3. PRSCs (along with linked donor transfers) constitute the largest single source of transfers to the
national budget. The PRSC Program also contained a number of measures to improve expenditure
management, ensuring more effective transfers of allocated funds, and to reduce the deviations between
budgeted and annual expenditures. In terms of modality for funneling aid, the PRSC mechanism has
improved the predictability of donor resource flows, and therefore directly supported the continuity of
budget transfers, while reducing transaction costs. This aspect of PRSC has been a success. Utilization of
aid provided in support of the budget has steadily improved, with the ratio of actual disbursements to
amounts allocated increasing from 39.6% in 1998/99 to 85.6% in 2002/03.


4.1.4. Uganda is heavily aid dependent (donors fund half the national budget), with poor domestic revenue
collection (12.3 percent of GDP compared to the Sub-Saharan African countries' average of about 18
percent). While heavy donor dependency may, in theory, be a tolerable interim arrangement while the
country is still so heavily dependent on subsistence agriculture, it is not a fiscally sustainable basis for
longer term growth and poverty reduction. The current patterns of economic growth show only slow
change in the sectoral shares of GDP, indicating that the structural changes sought by the Government have
not been occurring. The positive feature of efficient transfer of donor aid through PRSC (and related
modalities) is also creating a problem of absorption capacity, driving up unit labor costs in the non-traded
goods sectors. Monetary authorities, in an attempt to control these inflationary pressures, have had to cut
back on the rate of growth of money supply. Such large foreign aid inflows create pressures to either allow
the exchange rate to rise (which is a disincentive for exports), or real interest rates to rise (which is bad for
investment).

4.1.5. Contribution to Poverty Reduction. Uganda made impressive progress in reducing poverty
between 1992 and 2000, during which period the poverty headcount declined from 56 percent to 34
percent. However, since 2000, the year that the PRSC program was initiated, the poverty headcount has



                                                    - 16 -

increased to 38 percent (Household Survey 2002/03). Income disparities have also increased in the last few
years, with the income growth benefits accruing to only the top (wealthiest) quintile of the population. The
other four quintiles report declines in real household consumption per capita between 2000 and 2002. The
deterioration in poverty also has an urban-rural and regional bias, with the worst poverty levels recorded in
the North, and with Eastern Uganda experiencing a sharp worsening of its headcount poverty level. The
country's GDP per-capita is about US$250, and Uganda ranks 147 out of 175 countries (Human
Development Index (HDI) UNDP, 2003).

4.1.6 The Joint IDA-IMF Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Annual Progress Report (August 13, 2003,
Report No.:26567-UG), written before the results of the 2002/03 Household Survey were released, cites as
important reasons for reduced income among the poor, the problem of access to land, combined with the
impact of environmental degradation and the fragmentation of the size of landholdings. Added to this, is
the uneven progress in providing the poor the essential infrastructure and facilities required for increases in
income, especially rural roads, energy, markets, and financial services. Delays in implementing a National
Land Policy and Land Use Policy have prevented effective action to improve land distribution, especially to
women, orphans and other marginal groups, as well as hindering efforts to provide environmental
protection. While much has been done to address gender inequalities, remaining disparities still hinder the
productivity of women farmers. Insecurity, especially severe in the north, has all but destroyed the means
of livelihood for many communities. In urban areas, a continued high rate of unemployment and
underemployment contribute to urban poverty. The high population growth rate puts additional pressure
on poor families whose income is already below poverty levels.

4.1.7. On the welfare side of poverty reduction (delivery of social services) the picture is brighter
according to recent assessments (Mpuga and Canagarajah, April 2004, and Fox, 2004) as well as data
cited on service delivery in various sections of this ICR. Since the abolition of user fees at health centers in
2001 the distribution of government subsidies (expenditures) has shifted in favor of the poor. However, the
poor still face constraints in terms of distance to health units and the quality of some of the public health
centers available to them still seem questionable since the richer segments of the population positively
avoided these facilities even after the user fees were abolished. In education, the introduction of UPE has
been followed by a big shift in the distribution of public expenditures (subsidies) towards the poor and in
favor of girls, something not seen in the case of secondary and tertiary education. Recently developed
strategies for both secondary and tertiary education have a clear focus on equity of access, including in
terms of gender. In access to water, the situation has improved overall, but the poorer segments of the
urban population as well as those living in the countryside still have to mostly use open unprotected sources
of water and have to travel long distances to safe water sources (about an hours walk). The walking is
mostly done by women. In agricultural extension, while the new NAADS program is being vigorously
implemented, the richer farmers have disproportionately good access to these services.

4.1.8. It is difficult to rate the PRSC Program's role in the deteriorating (income) poverty picture,
uncovered by the 2002/03 household survey, a task which is much easier when looking at other dimensions
of poverty such as access to various services. Few of the objectives of the PRSC directly addressed income
improvement. The components related to improved responsiveness of agricultural research and advisory
services, would have had little bearing over the short-term on the poorest cadre of Uganda's farmers. Plans
to expand district roads would not have produced results within the time-frame of the PRSC Program (and
in any case faced delays since no technical offices that were supposed to have been established to assist
District governments to implement the strategy for district road construction and maintenance have been
put in place so far). It may also be true that in the first stage of connecting farms to markets it will be the
richer farmers who are able to produce a surplus that will benefit first. Components related to improving
access by women and orphans and other marginal groups to land ownership, and those supporting better


                                                      - 17 -

environmental stewardship, are relevant to poverty reduction at the lowest quintile range, but have moved
slowly and their impact is still many years away, and it is not yet clear what impact these measures will
have in practice. One other aspect that seems to have been missed was the increase in the population
growth rate that (after the census of 2002) turned out to have been 3.4% for the previous decade rather
than the assumed 2.8%. Given that the fertility rate in the Demographic and Health Survey of 2000 was
6.9 children per woman and that 50% of women gave birth to their first child by age 19, and that there had
been a slow-down in the prevalence of HIV/AIDS, was the population assumption of 2.8% plausible? A
different assumption might have raised alarm bells sooner.

4.1.9. In sum, on the service delivery side the focus of the PRSCs has been clear and there are a series of
accomplishments as discussed above. If the PRSCs were not supposed to support the income poverty
reduction objectives, perhaps that should have been made clear so that other parts of the World Bank's
assistance strategy could focus more insistently on that aspect. This will presumably be taken into account
in the new PEAP and the new donor Joint Assistance Strategy that are now both in the last stages of
preparation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1.1. Budget Performance and Allocations. The Ugandan budget is gradually becoming more
predictable in execution. However, the still weak state of budget monitoring in many key sectors means
that donor requirements for adequate fiduciary assurance have not yet been met, which may slow down
additional budgetary support commitments.

4.2.1.2. Despite many improvements in budget allocations, there remain some important problems.
Government expenditures increased from 16.7 percent of GDP in 1997/98 to 23.5 percent in 2002/03.
While most of this reflects increased budgetary support, some of it also is due to large increases in defense
expenditures (18 percent above budget level) and public administration (3 percent above budgeted level 
apparently mostly at the state house and district level), and domestic interest payments. Meanwhile, the
most stable element in the budget was the Poverty Action Fund (PAF) whose allocations increased from
17% of the budget in 1997/98 to 37% in 2002/03. Actual PAF expenditures closely matched PAF
budgeted amounts, and the PAF was protected during this period from other budget pressures. Increased
defense and public administration spending was met by cutting expenditures in areas outside the Poverty
Action Fund by 23%, negatively impacting roads, agriculture (especially the inadequate funding for the
PMA), natural resource management, and environment. This resulted in non-PAF development
expenditures 15 percent below originally budgeted levels. The existing separate technical assistance
projects in some areas that did not fall directly under the PAF umbrella, but were important to the overall
success of the budget support operations, such as financial management and capacity development at the
district level, apparently cushioned the impact of the sudden cuts in non-PAF budget categories in a number
of instances.

4.2.1.3. MTEF Process and Integration. In general terms, there is progress in making the budgeting
process more transparent and accountable. Parliament, especially, has been playing a more active role.
PER workshops have been held each year, open to all stakeholders, to review the MTEF allocation
priorities and debate budget execution. The government has also been issuing regular reports reviewing
budget performance. The MTEF has improved budget predictability. Increased transparency has
improved the quality of budget planning, budget choices, and budget discipline. Integration of project aid
in the MTEF is still weak, and donor disbursements are still falling short of commitments. The lack of
incorporation of all donor funding into the MTEF, as well as some instances of inadequate donor
cooperation, provides an opportunity for line Ministries and donors to bypass and undermine the aims of
the MTEF processes. There is still not effective synchronization of project aid with various sector and



                                                     - 18 -

local government budget ceilings. It is also proving difficult to incorporate into the MTEF cross-cutting
reforms and broadly based capacity building initiatives.

4.2.1.4. Resource Flows to Sectors. Despite some efficiency improvements, there is still an irregular flow
of funds to some sectors with overall transfers at less than 92 percent (86 percent for roads and works; 87
percent for justice, law, and order; 87 percent for water and sanitation; 89 percent for agriculture; 90
percent for health; 91 percent for education; and 90.5 percent for economic functions and social services).
Performance by broad expenditure categories shows that wage and non-wage expenditures were above
target, while development expenditure fell short by almost 20 percent in most sectors.

4.2.1.5. Resource Flows to Districts. The government has substantially increased allocations to local
governments.. Self-generated revenues of most local governments amount to less than 15 percent of their
expenditures. While the largest per capita increases are going to poverty prioritized districts in the north
and east, there are doubts about how much is reaching intended beneficiaries because of continued
governance problems. Education received the highest increase, followed by health and economic functions
and social services. Although transfers increased, they were less than was targeted.

4.2.1.6. Enhanced Results Orientation in Sector Expenditure Programs. There have been
improvements the adoption of output-oriented budgeting (OOB) methods, and results-oriented management
(ROM). The most recent budget workshop, provided the Sector Working Groups which provide critical
input to a successful MTEF process, with guidelines on OOB and ROM, and sectors have set ROM as an
operational objective at the institutional level, attempting to match these with goals at the sectoral level.
Many sectors are, however, still experiencing difficulties distinguishing between outputs and outcomes and
struggling with defining results that are in their power to achieve so that their performance could be judged
by the achievement of results.

4.2.1.7. Budget Monitoring and Evaluation. Although some of the PRSC initiatives have been launched,
budget monitoring and reporting have been assessed as weak and uncoordinated by the March 2003 HIPC
tracking report. The problem is particularly severe at the local level, where monitoring and evaluation is
often perfunctory and in the worst cases, hardly present. In central government improvements have been
made through the preparation of a quarterly budget performance report (within 30 days of the end of a
quarter), and a half-yearly report, which is published and distributed. The goal is for the final annual
report to be produced within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year. While improvements in OOB and ROM
have also facilitated better monitoring of outputs and outcomes, there are still many sectors where such
information is difficult to obtain. Actions are underway to solve some of these problems through the
MFPED's Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy (PMES) and the commitment to undertake NIMES.
Notwithstanding slow progress, improved budget performance reports have helped to identify and reduce
the budget discrepancy between allocation and outturns, to less than 10 percent in the last few years.

4.2.2. PEAP Pillar II: Ensure Good Governance and Security

4.2.2.1. Public Service Management. The pace of public service reform targeted in the PRSC program
has not been realized. Some goals have been largely achieved, such as the constraints in recruiting teachers
and health workers, and changes made to improve the integrity of the payroll. Work has commenced in
some areas highlighted in the PRSCs, but has not advanced to the level of results, however generalized,
stated in the PRSC. Planned PRSC-linked actions to improve efficiencies and effectiveness within the
public service have been postponed, and the public service reform strategy is stalled at the conceptual
stage, with no action despite the fact that reform needs had been clearly analyzed in the Public
Administration Study. Some initial progress has been made in introducing a new Performance Appraisal


                                                      - 19 -

Scheme that is based on defined service and output targets, but it is too early to determine whether this
scheme will bring about the results and service oriented culture change envisaged by the introduction. In
2002/03, Ush 15 billion was earmarked for salary increases for middle to senior level professionals.

4.2.2.2   There has been an additional problem of controlling expenditures in the budget sector called
Public Administration. This budget chapter is not the whole public service. It includes primarily political
administrations as well as transfer grants to the districts. The problems have been primarily with the
political administrations were Uganda's PA sector remains very large by Sub-Saharan African standards,
and has been growing rapidly. PRSC containment goals have not been achieved, and 2002/03 expenditures
on PA in 2002/03 reached 17.6 percent of total government expenditures. It is programmed to reduce them
to 15.9 percent in 2003/04. Targeted efficiencies do not seem to have been accomplished either, and many
departments of government have budget overruns. While the average overrun was about 2 percent, it is
significantly higher for some functions (State House, Electoral Commission). Part of the expansion has
been due to the addition of political appointments, the establishment of commissions, and the creation of
additional administrative units especially in local government. These are mostly not front-line service
delivery posts and one could question whether they deliver "value for money".

4.2.2.3. Public Procurement. Some important advances have occurred towards achieving the PRSC
goals, especially the enactment of the new Public Procurement Law, which establishes the legal and
regulatory framework for public procurement. The Public Procurement and Disposal of Assets Authority,
set up by the act, has yet to be empowered with adequate staffing and budgets. Procurement units have
been set up in all central government procuring ministries, departments, and agencies. At a local level, the
institutions required by law to operate the new system have been established, most importantly the tender
boards and technical evaluations committees, which have already produced procurement plans and have
established routines to deal with procurement matters. The majority of districts and municipalities have
produced lists of pre-qualified contractors (which are supposed to be updated annually), and are including
evaluation criteria for bid assessment in the tender documents. The PPDA has begun to track the impact of
these reforms, and has launched reviews of procurement in the education and WSS sectors. Not
unexpectedly, the system often runs into difficulties at a local level in terms of vested interests and potential
corruption. There have been reported cases of hidden tenders, and political appointments of tender board
members. There is still insufficient transparency and cases when tender boards reverse positions taken by
technical evaluation committees without explanation. Clearly, much needs to be done to ensure that the
governance aspects of public procurement keep pace with the technical improvements, and it is anticipated
that these issues will be a priority for the next version of the Country Procurement Assessment Report.
Other areas problem areas include: (i) weak linkages between procurement plans and cash flow projections,
which can lead to over-commitments at the Local Government (LG) level; (ii) failure to publish minutes of
tender board meetings; (iii) a lack, at the district level, of quarterly returns of purchases; (iv) weaknesses in
the way winning bids are followed up; and (v) delays in updating the list of pre-qualified contractors.

4.2.2.4. Financial Management. Progress has been made towards achieving the PRSC goals of
strengthening the country's systems of accounting for and auditing public expenditure, which has been a
long-standing weakness in Uganda, posing significant fiduciary risks. As is the case with many of the
reform objectives supported by the PRSC, the key bottlenecks are at the local level and this is were
progress has been the slowest. The strengthening of the overall national legal and regulatory framework for
financial management, as envisaged in the PRSC program, has been largely achieved; and considerable
training has taken place to improve accounting and auditing skills, making it possible to upgrade the quality
of recruitment. Progress has also been made in implementing the Integrated Financial Management System
(IFMS). The GOU has been active in sensitizing users on matters related to IFMS and has implemented a
comprehensive training program. Live running commenced in February 2004 at pilot sites which includes
6 ministries and 4 local authorities. However, despite many actions, the main governmental structures


                                                       - 20 -

responsible for financial management control and oversight (OAG, Ministry of Local Government,
MFPED, IGG, line ministries) are not yet operating at an optimal level, according to the most recent Public
Expenditure Review 2003, Report No. 27135-UG: "Their activities need to be synchronized and
streamlined in terms of inspection, monitoring, review and analysis, reporting and accountability,
follow-up, and, if necessary, sanctions." (paragraph 5.70, page 86).


4.2.2.5. Progress has been slow at the local government level, where, apart from the Local Government
Financial and Accounting Regulations, there is still a lack of effective written procedures and standards for
internal controls. This makes it difficult to maintain quality control, and to identify and handle instances of
corruption. Some progress has been made in establishing local government internal audit units, and some
have professionally qualified staff. The delay in local government audits has shortened considerably over
the last few years, although on average they are still about six months behind schedule. Most internal
audits are pre-audit, and unannounced post-audits are rare. As internal audit visits seldom exceed twice a
year, they have, at present, little impact on local government financial management. The internal audit
units have to deal with many obstacles, such as insufficient organizational authority and perceived
independence because they do not have a separate directorate structure. This perception is worsened by the
lack of attention and follow-up to audit reports offered by district councils and core central government
stakeholders, including the Ministry of Local Government, the MFPED, and the OAG. The units are often
out of the communication loop, not up-to-date with the latest developments, and are often not trained on
how to handle the many new guidelines covering conditional grants. Because the units are financed largely
out of local revenues, they operate in a financially constrained context where there are inadequate funds for
fundamental necessities such as transport, computers, and administrative support. The Local Government
Public Accounts Committees (LGPACs), whose job it is to review internal audit reports, suffer from
similar problems, especially weak authority and support, and lack of financing. It is rare that a negative
LGPAC report leads to punitive follow-up. As the LGPACs lack capacity, their reports are almost entirely
dependent on the internal audit reports they receive, which does not help build credibility. In addition, the
backlog in these reports, sometimes a number of years, severely limits their utility. A recently created
Parliamentary Local Government Public Accounts Committee is supposed to oversee local government
financial management, but has so far led only to threats and accusations where discrepancies have been
found, with little effective remedial action.

4.2.2.6. What are meant to be annual external audit reports on local government accounts, have been
lagging two or more years behind. This has been due in part to long delays between the submission and
approval of draft final accounts, procedures which suffer as well from lack of transparency and too much
negotiation on discrepancies. These time delays are shortening recently, and much progress has been made
at the Higher Local Government level. A recent OAG report shows that only 4 of the 129 HLGs lacked
audited accounts by July 2002. The situation is far worse at the sub-county level, where, over the last three
years, less than 50 percent of sub-counties have even submitted accounts to OAG; and by mid-2002, only
110 out of 3,000 sub-county accounts had been audited for the past three years. The OAG has now
proposed an audit strategy for submission to the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) which outlines
the appropriate approach, including financial and staffing resources required, for annual audit of
sub-county accounts (there are close to 900 sub-county governments in Uganda).

4.2.2.7. Corruption, Transparency, and Participation. The situation involving corruption in Uganda
remains highly problematic, and while PRSC may have made some progress at the level of enacting
regulations (such as the Leadership Code) and through high-level statements of commitment and principle,
there has been little progress in terms of prosecuting and punishing the culprits. Uganda continues to rank
among the world's most corrupt ten countries in international indices. It is not eligible for the US



                                                      - 21 -

government's Millennium Challenge Program funding because of the continued perception of corruption.
Under the requirements of the Leadership Code, most officials during the first high-level phase, voluntarily
submitted their asset declarations to IGG. However, controversy developed around attacks on the IGG for
attempting to dismiss a Presidential Advisor for non-compliance. This coincided with a decision of the
Constitutional Court to reduce the powers of the ombudsman of government to investigate complaints
about misuse of powers and financial resources in public administration. The second National Integrity
Survey (NIS), published by the IGG in April 2003, found large-scale corruption and embezzlement at the
top, which because it is not addressed aggressively is encouraging administrative corruption at the
grassroots, and threatens to undermine and perhaps derail some of the reforms. According to the Auditor
General's annual reports to Parliament, Ush 200 billion is unaccounted for, lost, or misused annually, 7.5%
of the GOU budget. The NIS identified the police force as the most corrupt of all government institutions,
which poses a major governance and security problem for the country. Others found especially corrupt
include health units, magistrate courts, and the Ugandan Revenue Authority, whose poor revenue
generation is partly to blame for Uganda's dependency on donors and growing debt. Progress has been
inadequate on a number of PRSC targets, including enactment of the consolidated Prevention of Corruption
Bill; revision of the Official Secrets Act; enactment of the Freedom of Access to Government Information
Bill; and enactment of the Whistleblower Protection Bill. Given these trends, and the fact that GOU,
allocates only 1.1 percent of its budget to accountability institutions (according to Transparency
International), it is questionable whether an operation like the PRSC is able to make much impact on
corruption issues.

4.2.2.8. Many efforts have been made to improve transparency and public information at the central level,
especially in budgeting and planning matters, such as publishing financial transfers to the districts.
However these are insufficient without the promised legislation to improve the limited access to government
information, which has not emerged. With decentralization, transparency at the local level has become a
prime focus, and here the situation is promising but uneven. Most local governments have yet to start
publishing plans, budgets, work plans, accounts, and audit reports. There is little done as yet to encourage
civic participation in these mainstream financial management functions, beyond some recent progress in
providing at least formal but limited opportunity for civic involvement at yearly budget conferences. Better
progress has been made in including civic groups in local project management committees, and in some
cases, in service delivery activities. Many local governments are posting public notices of LGDP and other
development grants at administration buildings; and some local authorities have begun to use local radio to
provide information and allow exchange of views on new developments.


4.2.2.9. Community and NGO Participation. Some progress has been made in the development by the
government of a Community Mobilization Strategy aimed at helping communities to better understand
government development programs and policies, and to participate in the implementation and management
of such programs. The post of Community Development Worker has been established within the local
government structure. A number of sector ministries and local government offices have started recruiting
mobilizers to help increase community awareness, but these efforts have been hampered by weak
coordination. Local governments are still poor at reporting to community beneficiaries on financial
matters, output, activities, and performance measures. Apart from the chance to participate in yearly
budget conferences, citizens still have few contacts with the daily implementation of the district
development program.

4.2.2.10. The Uganda process for preparing the PEAP has been widely accepted as a model of
participatory consultation. There was significant involvement of NGOs and other civic groups in the
PEAP and in Participatory Poverty Assessments. Stakeholders are regularly involved in discussing the



                                                     - 22 -

progress and funding of the PAF, and NGOs are active in the implementation of programs such as
micro-financing. For a long time, however, NGOs have been pressing for a clear framework for
participatory planning between government and civil society. This was the goal of the NGOs Amendment
Bill, the enactment of which was a PRSC target, and which has hardly been discussed in Parliament.
Controversy rages about whether statutory security agencies should be represented on the NGO
Registration Board. NGO responses to the PRSP process have been mixed. They welcome the chance to
participate, but report that their capacity constraints limits their ability to debate policies and strategies,
and therefore influence the process. Some claim that their involvement is symbolic rather than substantive,
and that without some type of organizing framework and statutory status, their influence will continue to be
limited. There are also issues with lack of government transparency and accountability at the local level.
The Local Government Act does not sufficiently provide access and influence for NGO's. There is also a
strong desire to be better informed about the donor agendas, and to be able to debate and influence these
agendas. Currently, therefore, while NGOs are active and vocal, their influencing and oversight role is
limited, and they continue to operate mainly as implementers. While the PRSC process has helped NGOs
strengthen their platform, the PRSCs have fallen short of achieving the goals of achieving "a better
operating environment for government-NGO partnerships and self monitoring by NGOs".

4.2.3. PEAP Pillar III: Directly Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes.

4.2.3.1. The PRSC process has accomplished relatively little to support this PEAP goal. This is in part
due to the fact that the support to this Pillar was only introduced in PRSC II, and partly because PRSC
goals and objectives, which while clearly helpful in the long-term to raising the incomes of the poor, were
too indirect to have any feasible impact over the program period. In terms of the specific PRSC
components and expected results, progress has been mixed.

4.2.3.2. Improved Quality of and Access to Agricultural Advisory Services. PRSC has effectively
supported the Government in achieving the goal of extending the National Agricultural Advisory Service
(NAADS) program to 153 sub-counties in 21 districts. While NAADS has made an energetic and
impressive start, progress in terms of tangible results is inevitably slow, partly because of the two-year
pilot nature of this approach, and partly because of limited resources. Because of the huge demand and
limited supply, it is not yet clear whether and how NAADS will reach the poorest farmers most in need,
and how NAADS can realistically respond to those needs. NAADS has acknowledged the need to move
rapidly after the completion of the pilot, to achieve tangible results, by selecting within each district, a
priority "strategic enterprise", to be developed and promoted with the support of the Secretariat and the
private sector. There is still some work to be completed by MOPS to strengthen local government
structures and capacities to meet NAADS requirements. Progress has been made in adapting the NAADS
M&E framework to district requirements. Outcome indicators for NAADS have been adopted by all the
districts. The NAADS-district organizational relationship is based on M&E technical committees, that
have been set up at district levels, and are now being extended to sub-county level.

4.2.3.3. Improved Responsiveness of Agricultural Research. The recently completed review of the
National Agricultural Research System (NARS) proposed a restructuring of the system to ensure greater
participation by lower level groups in both local government and communities. In terms of progress, a new
National Agricultural Research System Bill has been prepared establishing the National Agricultural
Research Council (NARO) as the coordinating body. The law will change only the institutional structure,
not the substantive program of NARO. NARO's services have recently been highly rated by independent
international institutions, showing the impact of NARO investment in agricultural research, yielding a
benefit/cost ratio of 12.38, and the third highest rate of return in Africa (50%) behind Ethiopia (58%) and
Morocco (57%). However, in terms of the PEAP/PRSC goals, NARO has not yet carried out a full


                                                      - 23 -

nation-wide impact study to determine the exact contribution of its technologies to poverty eradication,
income generation and food security. NARO also continues to face constraints: that many parts of PMA
are lagging behind; the lack of effective farmer organizations engaged in commercial farming; and the lack
of organized and sustainable marketing at the national, regional, and international levels. The new research
program, which was to be the outcome of the research strategy completed some years ago, is yet to emerge,
and is now targeted for the end of 2004. While NARO is making impressive progress and contribution, it
is not yet clear how NARS can be better focused on raising the incomes of the rural poor. The desired
PRSC result, "increased responsiveness and effectiveness of publicly supported agricultural research" is
too vague to allow judgment

4.2.3.4. Reduce Constraints to Agro-Processing and Marketing. Little has been achieved in terms of
improving access for the poor to agricultural markets. In fact, there is a clear trend, according to a recent
MFPED study (Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment National Report, 2003) for farmers to abandon
formal markets altogether because of the burdens presented by licenses and taxes. The identification of the
importance of this issue prior to the commencement of the PRSC cycle, is simply being reconfirmed. The
same MoPFED study says that widely diverse groups (rural and urban farmers, and those in remote areas,
farmers in villages with good infrastructure) cite lack of markets was one of the main causes of poverty.
Diversification of crops has progressed in recent times, and is playing an important part in exports,
especially fish (which reached US$78 million in 2002), cut flowers (which reached US$21 million in
exports in 2002) and vanilla and spices. However quantities of production have yet to rise to the level
where they can replace loss of foreign exchange earnings from coffee, and it is not clear that fish exports at
that level are sustainable. In any event, while this progress is clearly valuable from a national growth point
of view, it has yet to be shown to have had any real impact on raising the incomes of poor farmers. While
there have been input-side improvements in strategies and services, the main constraints to increasing
incomes of poor farmers, remain largely unaddressed: such as lack of financial resources to adopt improved
technologies, and the high costs of transport and marketing. In principle, conditional grants could help fill
some of the resource gaps, but these have yet to be effectively integrated into local agricultural promotion
programs despite the efforts of the PMA.

4.2.3.5. In terms of the broader national effort to strengthen agricultural marketing and agro-processing,
progress has been made on a number of fronts, including the start to implementation of the Strategy for
Agricultural Marketing and Agro-processing under PMA, and the operation of the Warehouse Receipt
System Act. Various other measures have been taken in terms of international trade, (such as participation
in the US African Growth and Opportunity Act), and financial markets (registration of the Uganda
Commodity Exchange).

4.2.3.6. Promote Access to Land by Poor Farmers, Women and Orphans. The PEAP and PRSC
analyses highlighted lack of access to land as one of the most vital priorities to be addressed if incomes of
the poor were to be improved. This was confirmed after the PRSC cycle was launched, by the 2001/02
participatory poverty assessment, where shortage of land was identified as the second most important cause
of poverty (after poor health). The village census and other studies show that during the PRSC cycle,
instead of poor households increasing their land-holding, the opposite has been happening (continuing a
trend that started in 1996). The MFED/UPAP analysis of 2002 shows that landholding among the
wealthiest households has continued to increase, and landholding among the poorest households has
continued to decrease. The single most likely contributory factor has been the continued high population
growth rate and large family size, leading to fragmentation and subdivision of property. Loss of usable land
due to environmental degradation is also an important cause in some areas of the country. Land is also lost
when poor families have no choice but to sell and move to urban areas. Inadequate land use planning,
evictions, and inroads made by commercial farming, are also frequently cited as causes. PRSC II


                                                     - 24 -

emphasized the slow progress in implementing the 1998 Land Act as a significant obstacle, and made this a
key focus of the PRSC program. Some initial steps have been achieved, including the approval of a Land
Sector Strategic Plan (LSSP) in 2001. Its implementation was due to start in 2002/3, but progress has
been slow. Guidelines have also been approved for the flow of funds to land boards, Ministry of Water,
Lands and Environment (MoWLE) has drafted proposals on gender and common property issues to be
addressed, and a Land Use Policy Working Group has been established to lead the formulation of a
National Land Policy and a Land Use Policy.

4.2.3.7. These are useful preparatory achievements. However they do not provide confidence that any
significant results will be achieved in the near future in terms of reversing the land-loss trends among the
poor. The participative poverty assessment of 2003 reconfirmed that what has been the case for some time
remains the current situation: that intra-household poverty is increased through a combination of land loss
and the subordinate status of women; that abandoned, divorced and widowed women are especially
vulnerable; and that those poor women who do have access to land have little incentive to grow cash crops
because they cannot exercise control over their own income. A recent LSSP study showed that legal
changes in the Land Act to protect the land rights of married women, dependent children, and orphans, have
had little practical effect to date.

4.2.3.8. Reduce the Level and Risk of Environmental Degradation. The Participatory Poverty
Assessment shows that the environmental degradation trends have continued and perhaps worsened during
the PRSC cycle, and that there is no evidence as yet that either the level or the risks have been reduced (the
PRSC goal: see PRSC-III Program Document, paragraph 137, page 41). Losses due to environmental
degradation have been estimated to lie within the range of 4 to 12 percent of GDP. Significant causes
continue to be loss of forest cover, water pollution due to industrial and domestic waste, over-fishing,
destruction of native fish species by introduction of foreign species, over-grazing, and encroachment on
wildlife areas and wetlands. PRSC focused on strengthening institutional structures (chiefly NEMA),
designing conservation and protection strategies, and training (especially at the local government level).
Progress has been made in many aspects of this component as it was designed, although progress in
achieving the stated PRSC goal is some way off. A number of environmental policies have been put in
place: for forests (2001); wetlands (2001); and soil (2003). Responsibility for environmental management
has been formally devolved to district and lower governments. An Environmental and Natural Resources
Sector Working Group was established in 2001 to prepare and harmonize sector plans and budgets.
Environmental training and manuals have been given to relevant government agencies, NGOs, and district
and sub-district officials. An Environmental Governance Review has been launched, and the first steps
taken to establish a National Forestry Authority. The viability of this approach to reducing environmental
degradation depends on the adequacy of capacity and resources at the levels of primary responsibility,
namely district and sub-district governments. It is clear that at present, neither the resources nor the
capacity are adequate, and the sustainability of the decentralized approach remains uncertain. The policies
themselves have also not been adequately funded, so implementation will be slow and uneven until they are.
At the moment the Government funds only 10% of the recurrent budget of NEMA, with the rest supplied
by donors. Environmental management depends to a large degree on voluntary adoption of effective
practices and avoidance of harmful ones, and this requires a strongly participative approach to
decision-making and a clear awareness of rights. Progress on this front is slow and there have been
complaints of people being excluded from the decision-making process.

4.2.3.9. Improve the Network of District Roads. The 10-year District and Urban Road Investment
Program has progressed to the completion of the detailed engineering design and preparation of tender
documents for the first 1000 kilometers. AFRICON has also recently completed a revised strategy and
action plan for the maintenance and rehabilitation of all secondary roads in Uganda including district roads.


                                                      - 25 -

The strategy covers some 22500km of district roads, between 30000 and 50000km of community access
roads and approximately 2000km of urban roads. At present, some 50 percent of the district and urban
roads, and 85 percent of the community access roads are in a poor condition.

4.2.3.10. Strengthen Micro-financing. Progress is being made to support off-farm enterprise through the
passage of the Micro-Finance Deposit Taking Institutions Act in November 2002. Two donor funded
programs are moving forward to support the implementation of the goals of this act: the cabinet has
approved a three year Rural Financial Services Outreach Program for implementation to begin in 2004,
with Ush 16 billion financing from donors; and an IFAD-funded seven year Rural Financial Services
Program has been negotiated. These programs will help build the capacity of MFIs, and promote product
development, and business awareness among rural clients. The PRSC result stated simply: "financially
sustainable micro-finance institutions, and greater access to financial services by the rural poor" (PRSC-III
Program Document, paragraph 137, page 41). In terms of the former, no indicators are spelt out by which
financial sustainability can be judged, nor are there any time scales or pace of progress described. In terms
of greater access to financial services by the rural poor, similarly neither descriptive indicators, nor
timescales/pace of progress, have been included. At present, most MFIs are located in urban areas that
have good infrastructure, and they are scarce in rural areas, and especially in the poorest parts of the
country, namely the north and east, and in newly created districts. All in all, while there has undoubtedly
been progress in improving Uganda's micro-finance sector, it is not yet clear how much of an impact these
current measures will have in terms of reaching the rural poor and helping to increase their incomes. The
PRSC objectives are stated so generally for the micro-finance sector that it is not possible to determine
what the PRSC has achieved in this component beyond some overall forward movement. In addition,
leaving aside the impact on the rural poor, there are also concerns about whether the MoTTI will provide
an adequate supervisory structure for MFIs in the future, and it may well be that capacity will need to be
built and alternative structures considered.

4.2.4. PEAP Pillar IV: Directly Increasing the Quality of Life of the Poor. PRSC did not focus on all
the factors which are currently deficient in terms of the quality of life for the poor in Uganda. Instead the
PRSC selected three of the most important: primary education, health, and WSS. The ICR will therefore
not attempt to judge the progress made in terms of the overall PEAP Pillar IV, given that the PRSC
coverage was only partial, and will focus only on the three sub-components.

4.2.4.1. Improving the Quality of Education. The PRSC targets were stated in terms of four indicators
(pupil-teacher ratio; pupil-textbook ratio; pupil-classroom ratio; and proportion of age-appropriate children
in the last year of primary school) and improvement in monitoring and evaluation in the education sector.
Two other targets were set (gender balance in primary enrollment; and improved learning outcomes, for
which no indicators or measures were provided). These are all important measures of progress when
looking at the primary education sector as such, but they constitute possible inputs into increasing the
quality of life of the poor, and not output measures as to how that quality has improved as a result of these
inputs. So while it is possible to assess the progress made with these specific components, it would be
largely conjecture, in the absence of indicators, to judge their contribution to the fourth pillar of the PEAP.

4.2.4.2. In pursuit of universal primary education, government has raised the primary school gross
enrollment rate to 126.3 percent; numbers of primary 7 leavers grew to 461,788 in 2003 (an increase of 15
percent over 2002); and the net enrollment of the poorest quintile has increased to 83 percent, with almost
equal numbers of boys and girls. While gender balance is being maintained at the primary school level, it is
still unequal at secondary level. The cohort survival rate to Grade 5 increased from 36 percent in 2001 to
57 percent in 2003. The Pupil-Teacher Ratio has not quite reached the PRSC target of 50:1, and remains
at 54:1 in 2002/03. The Pupil-Classroom Ratio did not quite reach the PRSC target of 88:1, the ratio
being 94:1 in 2003/04. The pupil-textbook ratio (P3/4) exceeded the PRSC target of 3:1, achieving a ratio



                                                      - 26 -

of 2:1 by 2003/04. The Government is also making special efforts to extend primary education to poor
remote areas, such as Karamoja and Kalangala. Clearly, the rate of provision of education inputs has had
a hard time keeping up with the extremely rapid increase in enrollments. At the secondary education level,
studies on how to extend access led to the development and discussion of a secondary education review
framework. Emphasis has also been given to the rehabilitation of secondary education school buildings.
The sector still experiences problems in filling vacant teacher positions, and a lack of instructional
materials in science and vocational subjects.

4.2.4.3. This progress has been achieved through very large budget allocations to the primary education
sector; over 30 percent of total government recurrent discretionary budget is being devoted to the education
sector, and almost 70 percent of that is being allocated to primary education. The September 2003 Public
Expenditure Review (Report No. 27135-UG, paragraph 4.60) questions the sustainability of such large
sector and intra-sector allocations (in terms both of capital and recurrent resource allocations), and whether
it is possible through the current strategy to improve both primary and secondary enrolments at the same
time. It is clear that goals to improve the quality of and access to secondary education are being hampered
by inadequate budget allocations. This has led to an emphasis on private sector partnerships as a way to
implement secondary and tertiary education strategies.

4.2.4.4. There are indications that learning outcomes had not improved much until recently. It is likely
that rapid expansion, coinciding with decentralization of responsibility to under-prepared district
governments, has taken place at the cost of quality, and at a time, where in any case, monitoring and
evaluation are still too weak to provide adequate insight as to what effects the massive expansion has been
having. Parents play a significant role in the success of any major education program reform, and it does
not seem that enough has been done to sustain the interest and role of parent-teacher associations after
school fees were eliminated. Above all, there are inadequate measures of whether, as justified under the
PEAP, the families and children most in need are gaining significant or even equitable, benefits under this
massive expansion. It is known that the quality is poorest in remoter rural areas, where teacher recruitment
has been least successful and where school construction is especially costly, making it difficult to achieve
national standards in such areas.

4.2.4.5. Improving the Quality of Health Care. Important steps have been taken in tackling some of the
most problematic aspects of Uganda's poor health status, although these steps are still preliminary
analytical and administrative inputs rather than substantive outputs, and fall short of many of the results
indicators stated in the PRSC. The government appointed a task force to tackle Uganda's continued high
infant and maternal mortality. The task force proposed: universal access to effective primary health
package, improvement in access and quality of emergency outpatient care, expansion of family planning
programs, intensification of adolescent health interventions and nutrition. These would go hand in hand
with provision of universal education for girls and gender empowerment at the household and community
levels. These are accompanied by efforts to encourage greater community involvement in Reproductive
Health/Maternal and Child Care; increasing the supply of skilled birth attendees; expanding access to
emergency obstetric care; prioritizing family planning; and enforcing the reporting of maternal and infant
deaths to the District Councils. Pilot programs on maternal and child health have been taking place in
Jinja, and Mulago, and a number of donors including WHO and UNICEF are actively assisting measures
aimed at reducing the risks to maternal and child health. At the current rate of improvement, Uganda is
unlikely to achieve the goal of reducing the maternal mortality rate (MMR) to the millennium goal target of
200/100,000 by 2015, or even the 2005 goal of 354/100,000. The Uganda Health and Demographic
survey, estimates the maternal mortality ratio currently as 505/100,000. An inter-ministerial Task Force
was constituted under PRSC-III to develop an integrated multi-sectoral strategy to address this continuing
problem.




                                                     - 27 -

4.2.4.6. Progress on other PRSC health indicators shows more positive trends. DPT3 immunization
coverage rose from 63 percent in 2002 to 84 percent in 2003, exceeding the PRSC target of 75 percent.
(Immunization coverage of children below one year of age increased from 46 percent in 2001 to 63 percent
in 2002). The proportion of deliveries in health facilities was projected to increase from 22.6 percent in
2001/02, to 25 percent in 2003, but has not improved so far. Out-patient utilization increased from 0.6
visits per-capita in 2002 to 0.72 in 2003, to above the PRSC target of 0.65. The proportion of approved
posts filled by trained health workers rose from 42 percent to 67 percent, or 55 percent using the new
staffing norms. (The PRSC stated the target differently: the percentage of health facilities with qualified
staff). The HIV-infection rate is projected at 6.3 percent in 2003, higher than the PRSC 5 percent target.

4.2.4.7. In terms of the goals of improving the supply of essential drugs, a drug tracking study was
undertaken in 2002, and MOH has improved the efficiency and rationalization of drug procurement based
on the recommendations of this study. A health sector PER analyzing efficiency at the district level was
carried out in 2002/03; and MOH has embarked on a tracking study of the PHC conditional grant for
shared services.

4.2.4.8. The PRSC emphasizes the results of rationalised financing of the health sector, although there are
only some hints as to what standards rationalised financing would satisfy. Three years implementation of
the Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) have now occurred, and although funding has increased by an
average rate of nine percent a year, financing levels are still below planned goals, resulting in continued
shortage of trained health personnel, inadequate network of functional health infrastructure, and serious
drug shortages. Much of the increase in allocations for the health sector continue to be carried by donors,
contrary to one of the PRSC financial rationalization goals. However, there have been a number of
important steps forward in terms of making the budget process more consultative and transparent, and in
improving the poverty targeting of health allocations. The result is proportionately higher allocations to
poor districts and regions of the country, and more channeling of resources to rural health sub-districts and
lower-level administrative units. It is not yet clear if and how poor families are benefiting from these
allocations, but this is the subject of a current district public expenditure review. One clear policy success
has been the removal of user charges in all government health facilities in 2001, which has significantly
improved the use of health services by the poor.

4.2.4.9. Improving Access to and Equity in Water and Sanitation. There has been important but uneven
progress in the pursuit of PRSC WSS goals, especially in terms of input processes. As in the case of
education, the outcomes are less certain. The government launched the third Joint
Government/Development Partners Sector Review in September 2003, which confirmed the achievements
to date, including 3,000 water points in rural areas and over 10,000 water points in urban areas. The
review concluded that the WSS sector is on track to meet MDG goals of 65 percent water supply and 80
percent sanitation coverage in 2015. Financing to the sector has increased substantially, from Ush 47.4
billion in FY 1996/97 to Ush 126.0 billion in FY 2002/03.

4.2.4.10. At an institutional level, impressive progress has been made by the National Water and Sewerage
Corporation, which has increased monthly water production from an average of 28 mm to 66.6 mm;
increased water meter coverage by 12 percent; reduced unaccounted for water from 49 percent to 33
percent; reduced sewerage blockages and overflows; increased monthly collections by 13 percent and
reduced arrears by 3 percent; decreased monthly expenses by 18.8 percent; and reduced response times to
customer complaints to less than 48 hours. While urban institutional capacity has improved, capacity is
still very weak at the district level and in rural areas. There are some positive signs, however, of greater
involvement by women in community WSS decision-making. At least a third of the members of water
committees are women, and women most often fill the role of treasurer of these committees. This local


                                                        - 28 -

progress is not matched at the central policy-making, management, and technical levels, where participants
remain predominantly male.

4.2.4.11. The latest figures show that the sector has achieved a total 61.5 percent national coverage in
providing safe water, but with substantial continuing inequalities between urban (89.3 percent coverage)
and rural (55.4 percent coverage), with small towns making especially noteworthy progress (70 percent in
2002, representing an increase of 18 percent since 2000). Some efforts have been made to remove
obstacles to the participation of the poor when the "half inch" connection fee was reduced from an average
of Ush 162,000 to Ush 50,000 in 2000. There is no doubting the greater complexity and expense of
providing access to safe water in rural areas. However, while the figures show important progress in rural
areas (a three percent increase since 2000), it is also clear that the poor have benefitted at a slower pace
than the better-off segments of the population from the PRSC WSS component. This pattern is the
inevitable consequences of the bias within intra-sectoral allocations, which still disproportionately favor
urban areas. While 90 percent of beneficiaries live in rural areas, there has been no substantial change
since 2001 in the pattern that half the WSS budget is spent at the center because of the biased attention
given to activities directly implemented by the Ministry of Water Lands and Environment
(MWLE),Directorate of Water Department,. A sector review by donors (2002/03) concluded that these
allocations demonstrate an inadequate alignment with PEAP objectives.

4.2.4.12. The bias in WSS allocations is strongly demonstrated by the program regarding small towns,
which currently absorb 24 percent of the total WSS budget, although they represent only 3 percent of the
total population. There are also questions about the operational efficiency of small towns' operations,
given the large allocated resources relative to outputs. As WSS operations in all small towns other than
Wobulenzi are being implemented by private operators, this tests the claim that privatization will inevitably
lead to greater efficiencies and increased value-for-money. The growth in small towns' connections is far
less than the projected goals, and in fact, these privatized operations have had to be subsidized by the sector
to break even.

4.2.4.13. Doubts have also been raised by MFPED and others concerning disparities between larger
financial allocations and the actual achievements. One conclusion is that the sector's large allocations to
capacity building and maintenance activities at the district level, have not so far produced the level of
increase in water points justifying the larger allocations.

4.2.4.14. Other concerns include reports that water quality does not measure up to stated goals. In
addition, the well-documented provision of facilities (inputs) does not automatically translate into an actual
increase in the use of safe water by the poor (outputs). The UPPAP II revealed that despite the provision
of facilities in their general locale, many poor people still experience major problems gaining access to safe
water and continue to use unprotected water as a consequence. The study quoted community members who
had to travel up to 16 Km to get to safe water points, and were additionally discouraged by cost and
congestion at the points. A strategy which monitors mainly the delivery of inputs without a proper focus on
the impact, will experience great difficulty reaching PEAP goals in reality. Another concern is that, while
high priority has been given to sanitation in the PEAP and in the health, education, and WSS sectoral
strategies, very limited resources have been allocated, and progress has been accordingly slow. National
coverage stands at 48 percent, far short of the PRSC goal of 60 percent. Part of the problem lies in the fact
that there is no lead agency to take responsibility for this subsector.

4.2.4.15. From a broad sectoral point of view, Uganda's WSS program is making strides although there
are still clear inefficiencies. From a PEAP/ PRSC point of view, the situation is far less satisfactory,
especially given the devastating impact of unsafe water on the health of the rural poor, and the urgency of


                                                      - 29 -

action in this area. How much these trends will change in future as decentralization continues is unclear.
The impact of privatization on better alignment to PEAP goals is equally unclear. All that can be said, at
the closing of this phase of the PRSC, is that the trends are not adequately in the direction of the stated
PEAP goals.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. The PRSC has had, indirectly, a substantial institutional development impact in a number of areas,
continuing the trends that have been the basis of capacity building in Uganda for almost two decades.
Strengthening of institutional capacity has been one of the aspects of Uganda's overall development
program that has been quite successful. This does not imply that either the PRSC or previous capacity
building programs have left behind fully functioning, fully competent institutions; but given the almost total
institutional collapse which greeted the new regime in 1985, the progress has been impressive, especially
among the macroeconomic and financial institutions (always excepting the revenue authority which, despite
its revamping in the early 1990's has failed to keep pace). As there were a number of institutional capacity
programs and initiatives already in train during the PRSC, it is not easy to ascribe specific impact to the
PRSC. The most notable institutional progress in recent years has been in the three social sectors, health,
education, and WSS. The PRSC focus on these three sectors probably helped to sharpen the institutional
progress that is being made. There were a number of institutions restructured as part of the components to
achieve PEAP goals, such as the National Water and Sewerage Corp., and the National Agricultural
Research Council. Probably one of the more important contributions made under the PRSC, has been the
introduction of a new inter-ministerial coordination mechanism, above the MFPED placed in the Office of
the Prime Minister (OPM, 2003), to oversee both the PRSC and PEAP. Another important institutional
process encouraged by PRSC has been the 14 Sector Working Groups set up by the Government to prepare
sector Budget Framework Papers (MFPED, 2003) and to provide an avenue for continuous policy dialogue
and reviews of progress in their respective sectors. Especially important are the cross-sectoral groups
which have allowed for important poverty-reduction goals to be handled in a more comprehensive fashion.
The group established to deal with the continuing problem of maternal and infant mortality is a promising
example of these.

4.5.2. As indicated above, PRSC is an enabler rather than a mechanism for institutional development, and
the PRSC is (like the PEAP) highly dependent on the effectiveness of Uganda's organizations. Despite the
promising progress, the size of the PEAP task (along with other sectoral and targeted reforms) is probably
beyond Uganda's current capacity. That leads to two results: one is chronic slowness in carrying out
reform (which is often, not always fairly, seen as a lack of government commitment). The reality is that the
system is over-burdened, partly because of the commendable readiness of the Government to take on
reforms. The second result is the steady growth of the size of public administration, as new specialized
units are added or old ones enlarged. And decentralization, despite its important potential benefits, has put
an additional strain on the system.

4.5.3. The single weakest aspect of Uganda's institutional framework is the one on which the success of
the PEAP and PRSC most strongly depends: the district and sub-district government structures. There
have been a number of capacity building interventions at the local government level running alongside the
PRSC, many of which began some years prior to the PRSC inception and were supported by several



                                                     - 30 -

donor-financed projects. PRSC itself included comparatively few measures that focused directly on
building local government capacity. That was left to complementary projects by both the World Bank and
a couple of donors. There is also a more subtle and complex aspect which was not adequately addressed in
the PRSC: namely the type of capacity building and strengthening that helps make institutions more
responsive to PEAP beneficiaries. There is no reason why a more effectively functioning organization
would inevitably be more responsive to the poor. Uganda's institutions, like those in many other countries,
are subject to capture by vested interests.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. The most disruptive factor to the achievement of PRSC goals has been the continuing violence and
insecurity in the North of the country and on Uganda's North and West borders (covering 18 districts
comprising almost a quarter of the entire country). Progress was made in reaching a peace pact with the
Ugandan National Redemption Front in 2000, and since then, many rebels have surrendered under the
amnesty. The same progress has not been achieved in the North, despite the initiation of peace talks with
the Lord's Resistance Army in July 2002. Since then, the violence has continued, resulting in the abduction
of thousands of civilians, with an estimated 1,000 killed in Kitgum alone over a 4 month period in the
middle of 2002. The violence has displaced tens of thousands of civilians. For example, in 2001, more
than 150,000 had to be housed in displacement camps in the Rwenzori Region, and the following year,
88,000 in the Katakwi Region. Surveys have shown that these displaced people have insufficient land on
which to subsist, suffer food shortages, and have inadequate health facilities. The burden of this continuing
conflict on the poor of the North, is added to by the presence of more than 200,000 refugees from Sudan,
DR Congo, and Rwanda. Two춗hirds of these are currently in the North, adding further to the strain on
already inadequate emergency services, and resulting in further environmental damage.

5.1.2. During the PRSC period, cattle rustling from Karamoja and from across the Kenyan border has
seriously impoverished tens of thousands of Ugandan livestock farmers in Acholi, Bugisu, Kapchorwa,
Karamoja, Lango, and Teso. These raids have often completely destroyed the social and economic lives of
communities, leading to displacement into camps (up to 88,000 in Katakwi alone). The government has
embarked on an intensive disarmament exercise to limit these problems, but so far the exercise has been
only partially effective. Cross-border raids continue as does lawlessness in Karamoja. Other forms of
local crime remain at high levels in certain districts, severely disrupting community life and economic
activity.

5.1.3. During the PRSC period, there were two different weather patterns that had an impact on farming
and therefore the incomes of the poor. The period 2001/02 was especially favorable, leading to a bumper
harvest. However, because demand for food is relatively inelastic, food crop prices fell significantly,
hurting the incomes of those farmers who rely on selling their surplus, but benefiting the urban poor who
buy their food. When the usual weather patterns returned in 2002/03, crops reduced in size and prices
increased, reversing the harm and benefits described above. Environmental degradation is, under current
circumstances, beyond the practical everyday control of government. Loss of farming land is a significant
factor that reduces the incomes and security of the poor in Uganda, and has probably added to
impoverishment during the PRSC period. However, given the lack of data, this factor can only be
identified and not measured.

5.1.4. The drop in international commodity prices after 1998/99 affected Uganda's exports during this
period. There was a drop of $222 million in coffee earnings alone by 2002. Slight improvements since then
have restored coffee prices to about 50 percent of their 1998/99 levels. Because Uganda has only recently



                                                      - 31 -

begun to diversify agricultural exports, this vulnerability to changes in world prices reduced Uganda's
GDP growth and probably contributed to the increase in income poverty that occurred since the 1999
household survey.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The factors generally under government control that are likely to have had the most detrimental impact, are
the continuing levels of corruption, the impact on development budgets of increasing defense spending, and
the loss of government income due to the continued poor performance of the revenue authority.
Expenditures on Public Administration could also have been controlled better. Although problematic, all of
these lie generally within government control. They have been discussed in other portions of this report.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Because of the nature of the PRSC which does not have an implementation phase beyond the satisfaction of
prior requirements, there is no single implementation agency for the PRSC reforms. Responsibility is
divided among many ministries, district governments, and specialized agencies. The role of the recently
established PEAP coordinating office in the Office of the Prime Minister has yet to mature, and in any
case, is unlikely to fulfill what is usually meant by the term "implementing agency". Collectively, the
performance of the government has been uneven, with many bottlenecks in approving bills and strategies.
This has undoubtedly had an impact on the progress made under the PRSC. However, it was clear at the
outset of the PRSC process that the reforms envisaged constituted an enormous task; and if the deadlines
envisaged for results under the PRSC are taken into account, it is also clear that the expectations were
unrealistic given the limited capacity of government and the burdens it already carries, implementation
agency for the PRSC reforms. Responsibility is divided among many ministries, district governments, and
specialized agencies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
PRSC 1, 2 and 3 were each in the amount of $150 million. PRSC 3 was provided fully as a grant for debt
vulnerable countries.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the PRSC is rated as Likely.

6.1.1. The PRSC has created a momentum, strong focus on the PEAP, many institutional structures and
processes, the start of decentralization of responsibility, the initiation of participative processes, and an
effective instrument for direct budget support. None of these are ideal or fully formed, but all represent
powerful ingredients for eventual sustainability. This will not be so much sustainability of what this PRSC
cycle has achieved so far, which in terms of the PEAP goals is mostly preliminary. However, as it is
planned to continue the PRSC 3-year rolling cycle, building on the goals and achievements so far, the
PRSC has constructed some powerful factors to support future sustainability. This will depend on a
number of factors. The first is a much closer realignment of PRSC goals and components with the new
PEAP (under preparation), so that future PRSCs respond more fully to the needs of the poor. The second
is the success in creating the necessary capacity at a district and sub-district level, while combating local
corruption through a combination of better oversight and improved incentives. The third will be an upturn
in revenue collection, because a poverty reduction program which depends on donor funding is not fiscally
sustainable in the longer run. In the short term, as donor funding will be critical, the continued willingness
of donors to provide the levels of financing provided so far, will be vital to sustainability. There needs to
be a concrete agreed strategy for reducing donor dependency and replacing loans and grants with
investments and revenue. The fourth factor will be a significant and lasting containment of defense



                                                      - 32 -

spending. And finally, future sustainability will depend on an end to conflicts and crime, and the restitution
of the type of social order that makes income improvement possible.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
By moving from project lending and grants, to the PRSC framework, the PRSC has already created the
transition to regular operations. The PRSC has no implementation component beyond the prior
agreements, and therefore all the actions taken under the PRSC are part of the government's regular
program of PEAP activities. The PRSC is the means by which donors support the PEAP. Education,
health and water supply have already become sector programs and therefore part of regular operations.
There are still a number of key projects that have important contributions to the achievement of PEAP
goals. It is not clear how these will be integrated with the PRSC in future. Hopefully this will be laid out
in the new Country Assistance Strategy currently under preparation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1. Perhaps the two most important things that the Bank did was (i) to take the risk of moving to a
budget support operation; and (ii) to use Uganda's "home grown" poverty reduction program (the PEAP) as
a PRSP. The Uganda PRSC was the first World Bank operation in Africa in which there was direct
"across-the-board" support to a country's annual budget. There were clear risks due to pervasive
institutional and human capacity weaknesses, to corruption, and in the area of financial accountability and
procurement. In the end, all of the challenges were successfully managed, which is a tribute to the Bank,
other donors and the GOU. Most of the risks still exist but in a less virulent form, due to the efforts
supported by the PRSC and "hands on" technical assistance in the fiduciary area (via several
complementary World Bank and donor projects), and through the support to the sectors via SWAPs (trust
funded sector work was instrumental in informing sector strategies). Using the "home grown" PEAP for a
PRSP, which then played a role in the development of the PRSC instrument as well as in the debt reduction
through the HIPC process, was also fortuitous. It played an important role in holding the strategic focus on
the various dimensions of poverty and helped facilitate the coordination among Government Ministries and
agencies which was crucial in making progress in areas that needed cross-cutting approaches.

7.1.2. The Bank's delivery of the PRSC program was effective, given the goals and the priorities selected
for Prior Actions. The Bank also effectively facilitated donor collaboration, some through direct
contributions, some by alignment of their programs with the PRSC, and all in terms of participation. The
PRSCs reduced the transfer costs for the Bank as well as the Government (see results of the Stocktaking
exercise, 2004 in Annex 9) although there were complaints on the GOU's side about the size and timing of
missions, the quantity of paperwork, and the size of the policy matrix which presented periodic burdens
that were heavier than any single project preparation mission. Nevertheless the Government clearly prefers
the PRSC route to a series of projects that would aim to accomplish the same objectives. There were some
changes in task responsibilities within the Bank team. However, these did not significantly disrupt the
operations. There was an effective integration of sector staff within the PRSC team. Because the PRSC
does not have an implementation role beyond the identification and agreement of Prior Actions, there was
no formal supervision. Most of the supervision seems to have taken place through the dozen or so Sector
Working Groups that met in Kampala on a regular basis, supplemented by intensive discussions with these
groups when PRSC missions (3 to 4 per year) were in town. The fact that the PRSC was task managed
from headquarters, with most of the team also headquarters based, reduced the detailed day-to-day support
and monitoring that the PEAP implementation might have benefited from, although there were competent
and knowledgeable World Bank people based in Kampala who were fully aware of what was going on and
participated in all the processes surrounding the PRSC. Still, it is worth considering whether a shift of the


                                                    - 33 -

Task Team Leader for future PRSCs to the field would be the better option, as donors are requesting. The
ongoing, parallel capacity building programs by the World Bank as well as a number of bilateral donors
helped to strengthen many of the structures needed for effective PRSC/PEAP implementation. However,
these were not perfectly aligned and, in retrospect, greater emphasis could have been given to increasing
capacity at the district and sub-district levels during the life of the PRSC. There was excellent coordination
with the IMF, who were co-partners in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Annual Progress Report,
August 2003. The Bank delivery of the PRSC financial package, although usually coming after the start of
the budget year, was sufficiently well aligned with the budget cycle and, because there was confidence that
it would be forthcoming, helped create greater predictability and improved budget performance in terms of
allocations and expenditures. However, the total transfers of credits and grants by the donors created
absorption problems for the Government and resulted in higher exchange and interest rates than would
otherwise have been the case, and (because of supply side problems) in higher unit labor costs in the
non-traded good sectors. Whether this would have been less of a problem if a comparable amount of
assistance had been delivered through projects is arguable, but the weaknesses on Uganda's supply side in
both the public and the private sector are serious and need attention. There was also, noticeably, little
improvement in local revenue collection and it is an open question whether the provision of large direct
budget support by donors has not decreased incentives to improve tax collection.

7.1.3 The PRSC was more effective at delivering direct budget support than in achieving the PEAP-related
goals stated in the PRSC. This is mostly a problem of the way the program presented its goals, which was
arguably too ambitious, and too generalized. Too few outcomes were stated in concrete and measurable
terms, and too little data and information was available upon which to make judgments about progress and
impact. This was known at the time the first PRSC operation was appraised, but improvements have been
slow in coming in subsequent PRSCs despite observations about these weaknesses from a number of
donors (this is being addressed in PEAP 3 and the new cycle of PRSCs starting with the current PRSC 4).
On the other hand, this is surely easier said and done. The agenda of the PRSCs was vast and it was a
huge task to keep track of just what was being done, so issues of how well it was being done were pushed
into the background.

7.2 Supervision:
Because the PRSC is not a project, there is no supervision in the "classical" sense in which the word is
applied to projects. However, execution of the year's budget which the PRSCs support, is monitored
closely. In particular, the regular budget execution review, budget framework papers, the annual public
expenditure review, budget performance reports, and the PER workshop groups and IMF missions, keep
track of budget performance and execution, in effect supervising the PRSCs. The preparation of the next
PRSC following the fulfillment of Prior Actions and disbursement of the preceding PRSC, provided
opportunities to track the progress the government was making towards agreed PRSC goals. In addition,
as pointed out in the previous section, progress in the various sectors was continuously monitored in
Kampala-based Sector Working Groups. Also, many of the World Bank sector staff made their own
supervision trips related to their own sector work, many of which were integrated into the PRSC. As
indicated above, this form of supervision was sporadic and often burdensome to the government, and not
especially well aligned to timetables for achieving PRSC goals. In the future, task management and
supervision based at the country office may well provide greater continuity, opportunities for problem
solving and facilitation, and improved consultation with local donors, some of whom were in a better
position than the Bank team to follow the PRSC on a day-to-day basis.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the factors described above, the overall Bank performance is rated as Very Satisfactory.




                                                      - 34 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's preparation of the PEAP provided the basis for the entire PRSC. This document was
based on extensive consultation, participative poverty assessments, household surveys, census data, and
in-depth sectoral analyses. The PEAP has been highly praised within the Bank and the donor community
as providing a sound framework and strategy for poverty reduction. The Government has been vigilant in
identifying weaknesses and gaps, and revising the PEAP as needed. The PEAP covers all of the critical
elements needed in terms of institutional, environmental, economic, and social factors, as well as civic
participation and community development.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance was uneven. In some components, especially those
concerned with the delivery of essential services (health, primary education, and water supply) there was a
higher level of both effectiveness and efficiency than has been seen in the past, although quality and direct
poverty-targeting sometimes suffered. The enactment of strategies, laws, and oversight measures
(including auditing) has moved forward slowly, and in some cases ponderously, with some cases of
significant delay. This has been largely a function of the complexity of the Government's reform program,
the limited capacity within government, the already significant burden being carried by public
administration, and a degree of political conflict surrounding certain governance measures. In the areas of
corruption and defense spending, government performance has been disappointing, and has tended to color
perceptions about overall government commitment.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
There was no specific implementing agency for the PRSC, as it is a cross-sectoral program involving many
agencies of government, frequently meeting in cross-sectoral groups. MFPED as the lead agency, however,
should be commended for competent handling of coordinating a very complex cross-ministerial program, in
which its "authority" to push for performance across the board was ambiguous. This has been changed for
the next cycle of PRSCs, with the Office of the Prime Minister taking over at the overall policy level, but
MFPED staff continuing to be relied on for their expertise.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the factors stated above, the overall borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The PRSC program has provided the basis for a continuation of the PRSC approach with a high degree of
continuity. Therefore it provides an excellent basis for learning from experience and translating these
lessons into improved focus, strategies, and mechanisms for future PRSC operations. Many of the lessons
are probably of interest beyond Uganda. A few, such as points (vi) through (viii) below may be of a more
Uganda-specific nature. For those looking for lessons from the Uganda PRSCs it may also be of interest to
look at the lessons and recommendations of a companion, but broader, stocktaking exercise of the Uganda
PRSC process (P. Miovic, May 2004, attached as Annex 9). The most important lessons that can be
drawn from this first phase of the PRSC approach in support of Uganda's PEAP are as follows:

(i)      The most vital element in poverty reduction is arguably the improvement of incomes of the poor.
         While strengthening the economic enabling environment for poverty reduction is essential, it is not
         sufficient and too slow to translate into direct improvements in incomes. Future PRSC operations
         may wish to consider more direct interventions that target income improvements. These will need
         significant community participation and local action, rather than depending on government as the
         vehicle for delivery.



                                                      - 35 -

(ii)  While many efforts have been made to ensure civic involvement and participation, especially in the
      preparation of the PEAP and in carrying out participatory poverty assessments, work remains to be
      done at the district level. Achievement of the PEAP goals at the local level is lagging in a number
      of respects. The role of committed and motivated civic and NGO participation is likely to be a
      vital factor in implementing the PEAP at the local level (in partnership with more capable local
      governments).

(iii) Future PRSCs should avoid being over-reaching, stating goals and results that cannot be achieved
      rapidly. More realistic account should be taken of the implementation capacity of government, and
      special attention should be given to boosting this capacity at a local government level. Given
      Uganda's commitment to decentralization, progress with the PEAP will take place at the pace
      possible at the weakest link in the chain.

(iv)  Future PRSCs need to state results and outcomes in more concrete and measurable terms, although
      this is much easier said than done. The vague, generalized outcomes that persisted throughout the
      PRSC cycle, despite many observations about their inadequacy, makes it difficult to select the most
      strategic interventions needed to bring about progress in the speediest and most economic way.
      Future PRSC results and outcomes should be based on the data and information systems available
      to measure progress and impact. There is little point in stating results and outcomes that are not
      measurable. Where there are essential goals for which monitoring and evaluation information is
      not available, the PRSC must help put in place in government, the information and data systems
      needed to make such monitoring and evaluation possible. It may be useful to revisit the PEAP as a
      whole with the purpose of determining the extent to which the program is amenable to monitoring
      and evaluation. A strong effort was made in the preparation of the current PRSC 4 to address this
      issue.

(v)   Because of the learning-from-experience potential of the PRSC, and because of its lack of formal
      implementation beyond the agreement and enactment of Prior Actions, it is essential that the Bank
      provide government with improved on-going support and facilitation. This is hard to achieve
      through large, periodic missions. Given that the PRSC is the heart of the Bank CAS, serious
      consideration should be given to moving future PRSC Task Team leaders to the field and place
      them under direct supervision of the resident Country Manager, and that a sufficient number of the
      core project staff are located in Uganda.

(vi)  As the PRSC instrument evolved, there has been a clear improvement in the understanding of what
      needs to be done and of the most effective ways of doing it. At the same time the number of issues
      that have to be considered has increased and there is some question whether the scope of the PRSC
      has reached its practical limits.

(vii) Because Uganda is highly dependent on donor aid for its poverty reduction efforts, and because the
      more efficient delivery of aid through the PRSC has resulted in absorption problems, it is essential
      that the Bank, donors, and government develop and agree on a long-term financing strategy which
      should govern and coordinate future levels of donor aid. This strategy should be based on an
      up-to-date analysis of the potential for Uganda to achieve greater financial self-reliance, the pace at
      which this may be feasible, the conditions and incentives needed, and the disciplines required within
      the donor community. The over-riding priority for this framework would be the future fiscal
      sustainability of a poverty reduction program, which is at present heavily dependent on donor
      support.


                                                 - 36 -

(viii)   The two most problematic aspects of the PRSC, namely corruption and defense spending, need to
         be translated more effectively into essential requirements and pre-requisites for the entire Bank
         program of support, and not left to the PRSC as a burden to carry.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC I, II&III) IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORTS

Introduction

1.       The first poverty eradication action plan (PEAP) was prepared in 1997 as the over-arching
document setting out Government poverty reduction strategy. This document has been subsequently
reviewed in 2000, with far broader consultation, including a participatory poverty assessment to ascertain
the views of the poor themselves.

2.       Uganda pioneered the use of budget support operations knows as Poverty Reduction Support
Credits (PRSCs) in the World Bank. The first PRSC for Uganda was approved by the World Bank Board
in May 2001, the second (PRSC2) in July 2002, and the third (PRSC3) in September 2003. PRSC4 is
now under preparation and is scheduled for Board presentation in June/July 2004.

Overview of PRSCs

3.       PRSCs have been designed to do programmatic lending to support policy and institutional reforms
that support the achievement of the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy, usually presented in the form of
a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The PRSCs have been designed as a series of annual credits
supporting a three-year rolling program of reforms.

4.       The specific objectives of the Uganda PRSCs are to:
    l Improve public service delivery
    l Strengthen government processes and systems, while avoiding parallel donor systems
    l Improve predictability of resource flows, and
    l Reduce transaction costs of aid delivery, as compared to transferring a similar level of resources
         through a series of projects

5.       Whereas the PEAP has been reviewed to revolve around five pillars, the PRSC's (I, II&III) have
selectively supported the Government's
Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP), which was used instead of a PRSP, originally built around four
pillars namely:

    l Developing a framework for economic growth and transformation
    l Ensuring good governance and security
    l Increasing the ability of the poor to raise incomes
    l Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor


6.       The reform program supported by the PRSCs is typically laid out in a log-frame type Policy
Matrix that sets out the objectives to be reached in each area, actions to be taken and a marker that
supposedly allows an evaluation of whether the actions were successful. Among these a subset of about



                                                     - 37 -

10-12 is chosen as particularly critical and is labeled as Prior Actions. Prior Actions as stated in a PRSC
have to be taken before the next PRSC (which lays out prior actions for a subsequent period) goes to the
Board of the World Bank for approval. Since the PRSCs are annual and the timing is tight, non-fulfillment
of Prior Actions (typically required by April of the budget year ending in June) can affect the flow of
resources to the budget in the next fiscal year.

Specific Areas of Action

7.       The PRSC I, II and III have focused on improving:

  l Public expenditure management and monitoring and evaluation
  l Governance (public service management, public procurement, financial management, legal and
       judicial reform and civil society participation)
  l Rural development such as:
  l Agricultural extension
  l Agricultural research and development
  l Rural finance
  l Land tenure
  l Natural resource management, and Rural roads
  l Delivery of social services (education, health, water and sanitation)


Achievements Under the PRSC Reform Process

Some of the specific achievement arising out of the reform supported by the PRSC process is described as
follows:

PEAP/PRSP PILLAR I: Creating a Framework for Economic Growth and Structural
Transformation

Budget Planning and Implementation

8.       Planning and Budgeting is being promoted through the Sector Wide Approach spearheaded by the
Sector Working Groups which bring together all stakeholders in the sector including development partners
and the civil society. In the medium to long term the sector wide approach will have to be developed for all
sectors including, public administration and security to justify their call on the resources.

9.       Government through the PRSC process has continued to promoted the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework as the tool for linking planning to budgeting. In view of this government has consistently
ensured that the budget is implemented as agreed and all stakeholders despite the increasing additional
expenditure needs. In view of this the Budget discrepancy has declined to less than 6 percent from double
figures before the implementation of the Budget Act 2001 1990s. During the previous PRSCs, Government
has released supplementary expenditures of about 3% of the total budgeted expenditure (excluding donor
projects) as required by the Budget Act 2001. These supplementary expenditures reflect budget overruns
in some votes, especially Public Administration

Fiscal Decentralisatioin

10.      In terms of local government financial management, the key laws are the Local Government Act
(LGA), Cap 243 and the 1998 Local Government Financial and Accounting Regulations (LGFAR) which


                                                     - 38 -

set out an elaborate, and comprehensive legal framework for development planning, budgeting, collecting
revenue, effecting expenditures, accounting and audit in local governments.

11.      In response to the increasing concerns over the limited autonomy available to local governments
and the need to streamline the systems of government transfers to local governments, a Fiscal
Decentralisation Strategy (FDS) has been developed and is being piloted in 15 local governments. Under
the FDS the number of central grants is being reduced significantly, and Local Governments (LGs) are
provided with flexibility to reallocate recurrent conditional grants within and between sectors. The LGFAR
are due to be revised this year to bring them in line with the new PFAA, the FDS provisions and other
initiatives.

PEAP/PRSP PILLAR II: Strengthening Good Governance and Security

Public Service Management

12.      An important component of the public sector strategy to improve service delivery has been the
improvement of the payroll management, the introduction of the Results Oriented Management (ROM)
system and the development of the Public Service Reform Strategy 2002-2007. Since 2001/02, significant
steps were undertaken in the area of payroll management leading to a reduction in the average time taken to
access health workers and primary teachers on the payroll from seven months to one month. Over the
period 2000/1-2002/03, the pay reform, was focused on areas where Government was experiencing
problems of recruitment, retention and poor performance, that is, health which coincided with the scrapping
of cost sharing, and middle to senior level managers and professionals.

13.      A ten-year public sector and pay reform initiative was launched in 2001 and in the first three years
of implementation, some notable achievements have been made including the reduction in pay differentials
between higher-level and middle level civil servants..

14.      Government is committed to the implementation of the Pay reform. Since FY 2001/2002,
Government has on average annually set aside Ushs.15 bn for the pay reform .The creation of executive
agencies that provide excessive differentials in the pay has exacerbated recruitment and retention problems
in the public service. The recent demand to enhance salaries and provide lunch allowances to health
workers is another setback to a holistic implementation of the pay reform strategy. The challenge therefore
is to harmonize the implementation of the pay reform into a holistic approach
.
15.      Government has also prepared a draft policy paper on issues, measures and modalities for
controlling the size of public administration to address concerns of all stakeholders. The recommendations
are to be considered by Government in light of the various studies on the reduction of PA costs that have
been undertaken yet been debated by the Cabinet.

16.      The implementation of results oriented management (ROM) will be supported by pay reform,
capacity enhancement, and pension reform, strengthening of records, personnel and payroll systems,
management of organizational structures and coordination, and monitoring and evaluation of cross cutting
reforms. The logical implication of ROM is that established human resources levels could be reduced and
the proportion of higher caliber, results oriented professional staff in operations could be increased. Over
the medium-term, Government will continue to undertake National Service Delivery Surveys in order to
support implementation of the PEAP and monitor and evaluate performance of the various public servants
against targets.




                                                     - 39 -

Financial Management

17.      Over the past three years, Government has undertaken concerted efforts to introduce further
changes to improve its efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery. The reform measures undertaken
cover a wide range of areas including repealing the Public Finance Act of 1964 and enacting a new one
plus enacting of the Budget Act which increased accountability by the Executive to Parliament and the
citizens, establishing commissions of inquiry in alleged breaches of standards and accountability,
strengthening financial controls and monitoring systems, and strengthening the legal framework through
legislations on moral principles and uprightness in the public service.

18.      The Government has registered significant improvements in Public sector accounting and reporting
in recent years. The annual public accounts of central government have been reviewed to comply with the
new PFAA 2003 and internationally accepted standards of public sector financial reporting. The central
government annual accounts are now regularly being produced within the statutory period. Most of the
local governments are now producing annual accounts and these are being audited within the stipulated
time.

19.      To support the improvement of Public Sector Budgeting and Accounting in order to achieve
timelier, transparent, and accurate financial and accounting information for both local and Central
government, Government has introduced the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS). The system
has been implemented in two phases, starting with six pilot ministries and four pilot districts selected on the
basis of the size of their business and the readiness for the system for ministries and districts respectively. It
also provides for interface with Bank of Uganda, and Uganda Revenue Authority. The rollout phase is to
cover 16 Ministries and Commissions and 6 local governments for financial year 2004/2005.

20.      In the budget for FY 2004/05, provisions for recurrent costs as a result of operating the IFMS have
been made and captured in the respective budgets of the pilot ministries and local governments as a way of
ensuring ownership and sustainability of system. Some of the benefits of the system that will be realized
consist of efficiency gains and cost savings are: a reduction in budget execution time through the
automation; unification of the financial tracking and reporting between central and local government
departments; much quicker and more accurate accounting (including immediate bank reconciliation),
reporting and auditing; Virtual elimination of arrears through automation of the Commitment Control
System, which would allow instantaneous checking of reported commitments against commitment ceilings
and tracking of expenditures against commitments; more accurate representation of the Government fiscal
position as a result of the move towards international accounting standards, enabling better fiscal
management both at the budget preparation phase and during the budget execution stage.

21.      Legal ground has been broken in establishing corporate Governance in Uganda by the enactment of
the Financial Institutions Act, 2002, which lays the foundation for legal consequences for modern thinking
of corporate Governance in Uganda. The Uganda Capital Markets Authority issued the Capital Markets
Corporate Governance guidelines in 2003 that apply to public companies and issuers of corporate debt in
Uganda. The institute of corporate Governance of Uganda has developed guidelines for use by all corporate
bodies in Uganda irrespective of form of ownership and size of entity to meet the unique mix of corporate
bodies in Uganda that tend to be family owned and small and medium enterprises (SMEs).




                                                     - 40 -

Transparency

22.        Good governance is a cornerstone in the fight against poverty. The Government is committed to
implementing strategies for zero tolerance of corruption in society. The following has been achieved
through the reforms in this area:

   l The Hon Minister of State for Ethics and Integrity (MSEI) tabled and Parliament passed, the
         Inspectorate of Government (IG) Bill, which was then assented to by H.E the President in March
         2002. The IG Act 2001 puts into effect the improved powers and procedures required by the
         Inspectorate of Government to fight corruption more effectively as provided for in the 1995
         constitution;
   l The Inspector General of Government's report is now regularly discussed by the Sessional
         Committee on Legal and Parliamentary Affairs;
   l The new Leadership Code assented to by H.E the President in July 2002. The Leadership Code
         caters for a wide group of key leaders and closes the loopholes in the previous Code. It also
         provides avenues for citizens to access leaders' asset declarations and for sanctions for
         non-compliance, including disqualification from office.

23.       As a result of these interventions, the 2003 National Integrity Survey based on a sample of public
perceptions indicates that there has been progress in reducing the incidence of corruption in Uganda.
However, while the rate of bribery has somewhat fallen in recent years for those institutions where
comparison is possible, unofficial payments remain prevalent in some institutions with varying amounts
being paid. Corruption is particularly noted in the allocation of tenders that is responsible for driving up
costs of public sector investments and often leads to failure to achieve poverty reduction objectives.

Justice Law and Order

24.       There has been significant progress towards clearing the case backlog with the introduction of
facilitation of Police and Prisons officers to transport witnesses and suspects, the Judiciary and Directorate
of Public Prosecutions to schedule extra court sessions and the government Laboratory under the Poverty
Action Fund (PAF). This led to a reduction in case backlog by 15% in 2000/01 with cases dating back to
1995 completed. The Chain Linked Initiative that was piloted in Masaka district demonstrated that
cooperation between the police and prisons in scheduling criminal cases is effective in reducing backlog and
the initiative has been rolled out to all the 29 magisterial areas.

25.      While the Constitution limits time to be spent on remand, only the High Court has the jurisdiction
to hear capital offences. Consequently, a large proportion of suspects on capital offences stay on remand
for longer period before their cases can be heard. Limited knowledge of rights and obligations by the public
remain major constraints to improving access to justice.

26.      Significant improvements have also been registered in areas of law reform. However, some laws of
Uganda are obsolete and some discriminate against the poor and women. Progress has been made towards
amending such laws, with the most recent path-breaking action being the ruling in favour of amending the
law on divorce. In the medium term, Government will focus on two strategic areas for reform, that is, the
criminal and commercial justice reform. The criminal justice reform program focuses on legal services
reform; improved administration of justice, improved civic and legal education and law reform, while the
commercial justice reform program focuses on commercial court reform, companies and land registries
reform, reform of key commercial laws and strengthening commercial lawyers.




                                                     - 41 -

PEAP/PRSP PILLAR III: Increasing the Ability of the Poor to Raise their Incomes

Financial Services

27.      Government over the past years has developed supportive policies to the development of financial
services. Considering that Micro-Finance services address the financial needs of the poor, especially the
rural poor who account for over 80% of the country's population, Government has developed policies to
support the development of microfinance services. The key features related to the adoption of international
best practices have been in putting in place a supportive policy framework; commercial orientation of
microfinance to ensure sustainability in its provision; better coordination among stakeholders, capacity
building of Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs); the development of an outreach plan; and improving the
product mix. Through the Micro Finance Forum, district microfinance committees are to strengthen micro
finance coordination. The micro finance outreach plan has introduced incentives for MFIs to reach rural
areas and offer products tailored to the needs of communities.

28.      In order to regulate micro-finance services, a Microfinance Deposit-taking Institutions Act 2003 is
in place. This law allows eligible institutions to mobilise and intermediate savings from the public under the
supervision of Bank of Uganda. This will go along way in integrating rural and microfinance as part of the
financial system. A performance monitoring and consumer protection system for MFIs has been developed
and accepted by the practitioners and donors in the industry. This system is gaining countrywide
recognition and is likely to be adopted as a standard in other countries. Strategic alliances of MFIs with
commercial banks and insurance companies are emerging as distinctive elements of Ugandan microfinance.

29.      The future plans for the Microfinance industry will mainly revolve around strengthening the
institutional capacity of MFIs and capacity building through training. Government will ensure that its
programmes are rationalised and that there is no interference in the market of the microfinance operators.
More work will be done to study the best ways to finance Agriculture and to also create linkages between
the formal sector and the microfinance industry.

Agriculture

30.      It is probably too early to say much about outcomes in the delivery of services to agriculture.
However the following has been undertaken under the pervious PRSCs, NAADS programme
implementation that effectively started in July 2001 in 24 sub-Counties in six "trail-blazing" districts,
namely Arua, Kabale, Kibaale, Mukono, Soroti and Tororo, now covers 21 districts and 153 sub-Counties
located in all regions of the country. The geographical expansion of the Programme has been phased to
ensure that sufficient capacity  of both the staff and the target group  is developed guaranteeing its
successful implementation. It is planned that all Districts will be incorporated by the end of 2007/08.

31.      As at March 2004, 9,078 farmer groups to be supported under NAADS had registered with the
programme, while a further 4,124 had been identified and were waiting to register. Approximately 60 per
cent of the members of these groups were female. As at the same date, 796 advisory service contracts had
been issued by farmers forum, while contracts for a further 109 enterprises were under preparation. There
were approximately 3 enterprises per sub-County. The contracts were for such diverse enterprises that
include agro-forestry, bee-keeping, aquaculture, livestock and vegetable cultivation - 39 different ones in
total.

32.      By mid March 2004, 3116 technology development sites being used by 158,424 farmers, had been
established. The sites were demonstrating 38 different improved technologies relating to a range of


                                                     - 42 -

enterprises, including vanilla , temperate fruit trees, apiary, livestock and fish, and labour saving
technologies, such as animal traction for land opening and weeding.

33.     The capacity of approximately 720 existing and potential service providers is being developed in
various areas, in tandem with those of the farmers and enable them meet the increasing demand for
advisory services from farmers.

34.     The agricultural sector still faces severe constraints that partly explain the increase in income
poverty, especially among crop farmers as highlighted above. Key among these is the relatively low price
levels for agricultural produce associated with production of low-value crops and limited end-products.
Apart from limited access to agricultural support services such as crop and veterinary extension services
and food processing technology, the limited access to infrastructure such as electricity and water
infrastructure, limited market information and proliferation of local taxes inhibit the development of a
vibrant agricultural sector with linkages to other sectors of the economy.

35.     Given the extent of the structural weaknesses that exist in the agricultural sector, and the
implications for poverty eradication, prospects for reversing the income poverty trend lie in addressing
these constraints. In the revised PEAP, the Government has identified more strategic approaches to
enhance the provision of public goods for agricultural production in the areas of agricultural extension,
research and technology development, marketing, and preservation of the natural resource base,
particularly soil and forests as an emerging high priority. In order to further improve production,
competitiveness and incomes in the country, the Government will focus on modernizing agriculture,
preservation of the natural resource base particularly soils and forests and provision of the necessary
infrastructure including roads, electricity and railways. This will all necessitate better implementation of
the Plan for Modernization of Agriculture (PMA), the Medium-Term Competitive Strategy (MTCS) for the
private sector that includes the Strategic Exports Program (SEP).

36.     A National Agricultural Research Policy to promote the delivery of high quality and effective
agricultural research services has been developed as well as the Marketing and Agro-Processing Strategy
(MAPS). In line with this strategy, Government has established the Uganda Commodity Exchange (UCE)
that provides a meeting place for commodity buyers and sellers and the Warehouse Receipt System in
which a receipt of the holder of the commodity deposited in a certified and registered warehouse can be
used as collateral for loans to enhance market access by farmers. In addition, the cooperative movement has
been invigorated. So far, 25 Area Marketing Cooperative Enterprises (AMCEs) that bring together primary
cooperative societies, farmer associations, and large-scale farmers in a given sub-county have been
established. In some of these, farmers are reported to be realizing better prices than before.

37.     To improve the prioritization and management of activities in agriculture, an Agricultural Sector
Investment Plan (ASIP) is in advanced stages of development that will provide a coherent framework for
public investments. As part of this framework, Government is investing heavily in the demand-driven
agricultural extension service delivery and research into improved technologies and methods of production.
The ASIP will address the issue of training farmers in areas such as agronomic practices, post-harvest
handling and new techniques and technologies for farmers and fishermen as measures to improve
agricultural productivity.

PEAP/PRSP PILLAR IV: Improving the Quality of Life of the Poor


Education



                                                      - 43 -

38.      In the provision of basic education, Government has prioritized improvement of the quality of UPE
with results showing positive trends in select quality indicators. Provision of instructional materials has
resulted in the reduction of the pupil/book ratio from 6:1 in 2000 to 3:1 in 2003. School sanitation and
hygiene has also improved from 700:1 as estimated in 1997 to 96:1 in 2000 with 80% of the schools having
separate facilities for girls. A policy for the educationally disadvantaged children was also put in place and
provides, through programmes such as COPE, ABEK and BEUPA basic education for children who are
experiencing barriers to learning and includes the programmes. There is empirical evidence now to show
that the returns to education in Uganda increased in the 1990s for all sub-sectors and that were highest for
primary education, followed by tertiary and secondary education. This evidence confirms Government
policy of prioritizing delivering quality primary education and strengthening the performance of higher
levels of education.

39.      Government is also working on improving functional adult literacy programmes and
vocationalizing the education system through inclusion of agriculture in the primary school curriculum to
make UPE more practical and relevant. The focus will continue to be on improving quality and access to
primary and secondary education, increasing the relevance of the curriculum at all levels, improving
teacher quality and promoting recruitment and retention of high quality teachers by putting in place the
right incentives. This will involve expansion of physical school facilities to cater for the increase in
enrolment and creating a more conducive learning and teaching environment.

Health and Nutrition Services

40.      The burden of disease in Uganda remains high. Prenatal and maternal conditions, malaria, acute
respiratory tract infections and AIDS together account for over 60% of the total national death burden.
Before 2001, the poor were paying for health services in Government health centers. Following the
abolishment of cost sharing poor people's access to health care has improved although the quality of
services remains a challenge. Government recognizes the need to make improvements in the following
areas:

   l Drug availability
   l Presence of qualified health staff
   l Access to health services
   l Transport for referral patients
   l Access to health services by disabled people especially family planning services
   l Strengthening preventive primary health care activities especially to prevent malaria, HIV/AIDS
         and poor sanitation diseases

41.      The Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) aims at achieving the delivery of the Ugandan Minimum
Health Care Package (UMHCP) to all Ugandan households. The UMHCP has been phased to start with an
affordable set of priorities including immunization, malaria control, information, education and
communication, reproductive health and HIV/AIDS. Under the HSSP, Government has also built 400 new
HC2s, upgraded 180 HC2s to HC3 status (including maternity services and is upgrading 150 HC4s to
provide emergency obstetric and surgical services. In the area of nutrition, the Government with the
support of the World Bank has since 1998 been implementing the Nutrition and Early Child Hood
Development Project which ends in July 2004. The project covers 34 districts.

42.      In recognition of the mortality that despite all these efforts, health outcomes in terms of the high
infant and maternal rates remain poor, Government has prepared an Infant and Maternal Mortality Strategy
to deal with this challenge. The strategy recognizes that health outcomes are not the sole responsibility of


                                                       - 44 -

the health sector. Key interventions are in the areas of improving quality of health care and treatment of
malaria, sanitation, community mobilization and family planning. To further improve nutrition, under the
proposed Expanded School Feeding Program, the nutrition and health education component to be
implemented by the Ministry of Health will cover aspects of the importance of food for growth using the
life-cycle approach, vegetable gardening and school gardening to complement school meals.

Water and Sanitation

43.       Since the inception of PRSC process rural water coverage has continued to improve from around
54.9% by the end of 2002/03 to about 60% today. Urban water coverage is estimated to have increased
from 54% in 2000 to about 60-65% by now, although access rates have somehow fallen back because of
the rapid growth in peri-urban and informal urban settlements. Piped sewerage services are accessible to
an estimated 8% of the urban centers while the remainder of the urban population use on site systems,
which are predominantly pit latrines.

44.      Despite the progress in water coverage, the majority poor people still use unprotected water
sources and travel long distances to both safe and unsafe sources. Other challenges to improving safe water
provision and sanitation include maintaining the existing bore holes and providing hygienic water sources
for both animals and humans; improving the construction, use and maintenance of latrine facilities,
strengthening health education activities for the improvement of sanitation conditions; and strengthening the
management and collection of garbage especially in urban areas and fish landing sites. Government will
continue to increase access to safe drinking water through direct investment in infrastructure and
strengthening private partnership in operations.

45.      Challenges to the Reform under PRSC

The challenges ahead of the PRSC modality and targets include:

Budget Planning and Implementation

     The key challenges on budget planning and implementation is the issues of prioritizing within the PEAP
     resources so that sectoral expenditure need fit within the resources available. It is hoped that with the
     finalization and approval of the revised PEAP, guidance will be provided on sectoral allocations to
     deliver the PEAP priorities. Related to this is the challenge of ensuring that all sectors adopt the sector
     wide approach with defined objectives, outputs and outcomes. Key among these sectors is Public
     Administration and the translation of the Defence review into a sectoral strategy and medium term
     plan.

46.      The key challenge to budget execution is the need to minimize budget overruns of certain votes
which result into supplementary expenditures. It is only when this achieved, that the deviations in the
budget outturns will be minimized to only emergencies.

Intersectoral linkages

47.       The promotion and realization of intersectoral linkages remains a challenge. This is demonstrated
by some of the health outcomes that have stagnated or deteriorated despite the increased funding to the
sector. This is because the realization of positive outcomes is not only dependents to the interventions of the
health sector alone but also the actions of the education as well as the water and sanitation sectors.

Public Sector Pay:

48.      Whereas government is committed to improving pay as evidenced by the Pay Reform Strategy, this


                                                      - 45 -

commitment cannot be achieved as originally planned. This is basically due to the desire to improve
delivery of social services which has increased in the staffing requirement for teachers and health workers
as well as the creation of new districts, have led to the growth in employment. Therefore coupled with the
generally low tax revenues, Government cannot afford to immediately pay enough to attract and retain staff
while simultaneously meeting other priority expenditure needs.

Financial accountability

49.      There are still concerns of weak financial accountability, whereby the financial rules are still
widely ignored especially at local government level and audit reports are not followed up. These
weaknesses are however being addressed through the implementation of the Integrated Financial
Management Systems as well as procurement reforms. With the emphasis being directed to capacity
building the government systems will be able to generate acceptable accounting and audit reports that give
fiduciary assurance to the development partners.

Fiscal Decentralization

50.      Whereas government decentralized and supports delivery of services through central government
transfers, there is need to reconcile the focus on national policy priorities with decentralized budget
management. This despite the significant improvements secured in the share of public expenditures
reaching facility level, improvements in service access and quality, some of the grants (conditional) have
been criticized for being unresponsive to local needs and overly bureaucratic, with a focus on nominal
paper planning and accountability rather than a real focus on performance. The issues raised in here are
being addressed through the fiscal decentralization strategy piloted in 15 local governments this financial
year and is due for roll out in the FY2004/05. . This allows flexibility for local governments to allocate
resources to the most pressing needs within the priorities of government. The experiences of the pilot phase
are yet to be documented.

Lessons Learnt and Way Forward

51.      Government ownership of the reform program is rising. Awareness is high at the technical level,
although it varies across sectoral ministries. Sectors such as Education and Health that have had
sector-wide programs before the PRSCs came along are leading the way. The institutionalization of the
Justice Law and Order Sector programming which brings together over 10 different institutions is a
remarkable achievement of these reforms. However the large, rapidly evolving reform agenda makes it
harder for such efforts to succeed as one has to overcome the resistance of the weaker ministries to change.
This is because they see gains in the switchover to budget support, which reduces on the resources
available to them in the form of direct project aid. In light of this, new coordination mechanisms will help
deepen the sense of ownership across sector


52.      Whereas the level of Sector wide approach to planning and budgeting differs among sectors, the
PRSC process has clearly improved the overall strategic vision of the Government.

53.      The continues collection of views from the poor themselves through participatory poverty
assessments as well as household survey assessments, have been influential in directing Government
priorities. Whereas on the other hand the direct participation by communities in setting service standards
and priorities is limited, the Local Government Development Programme (LGDP) modality has
encouraged this and influenced disbursement modalities for other local government grants such as the PMA
non sectoral grant.

54.      Government's resolve to actively to provide information to the population to enable them to hold


                                                      - 46 -

officials to account through mandatory public notices as well as the citizen guide to the budget process, has
encouraged and facilitated complaints through the IGG.

55.      The involvement of Parliament and the NGOs in the budget process, and the provision of
simplified information on the budget process to all stakeholders has enhanced the participation in
monitoring as well as and provision of feedback on issues that concern the poor.

56.      PRSCs have strengthened the Governments resolve to prioritise poverty as an overarching
development concern in the national budget process in Uganda.

57.      Government has committed itself to increase the level and share of total public expenditure to the
Poverty Action Fund, and guarantees that PAF allocated funds are released in full.

58.       Using the PAF, through the decentralised governance, Government has remarkably spent a third of
its national budget via local authorities as conditional grants to improve and hasten service delivery. This
has enabled Government to be more focused on poverty since the majority of the poor live in rural areas, to
which the local authorities have greater proximity.

59.       The need for efficient and effective utilization of resources has necessitated incorporation project
donor flows within the budget. This is supported in the context of an agreement on the overall Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), plus crosscutting issues mainly in the areas of public sector
management and accountability.

Conclusion

60.      Despite the challenges, to the PRSC modality, there has been apparent success which is built on a
strong emphasis on poverty by the leadership and the execution through an effective Ministry of Finance
Planning and Economic Development. Therefore the critical and replicable aspects of this approach to
poverty reduction focused budgeting include:
(a)      Preparation of a poverty strategy, which is informed by good evidence and analysis of the extent
         and nature of the problems of the different groups within the poor.
(b)      The integration of planning and budgeting through the Medium Term Expenditure to facilitate a
         process whereby plans prepared to implement the strategy reflect a realistic view of budget
         constraints.
(c)      Building a credible budget process, which has progressed incrementally from ensuring overall
         macro stability leading to realistic in-year budgeting, to the introduction of a medium term
         framework, and a gradual extension of coverage to capture more of the donor flow (budget support
         and project aid) and facilitate medium term planning by local Governments.
(d)      Using the PRSC strategy to identify public expenditures reforms, which are critical to achieving
         poverty reduction goals, and enhance service delivery.
(e)      The need for fiduciary assurance has called for improved execution of the budget and quality of
         service delivery as well as formal accounting and reporting systems. Planning and accountability at
         local Government level is being reinforced through a combination of conditionalities for access to
         funds and capacity building support to help local Governments meet the criteria. Therefore
         government will continue to strengthen further the accounting and Audit processes as a way of
         improving financial management standards, and to guard against corrupt tendencies which may
         derail the poverty reduction process, and to help realise greater donor commitment to the cause of
         poverty reduction.
(f)      The drive towards output and outcome oriented budgeting will enhance actions for poverty


                                                      - 47 -

        reduction, especially as additional resources for the budget are to be linked to transparent and
        monitorable commitments that are pro-poor.
(g)     The objectives of the PRSC have been achieved and government expected to consolidate them
during the future PRSCs.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None




                                                   - 48 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

See Table 1 in the text.




                                        - 49 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

NA




                                      - 50 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 51 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               4/02                   21     1 Lead Economist, Mission
                                             Leader
                                             1 Sr. Social Development
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Lead Financial Sector
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Public Sector Specialist
                                             3 Sr. Economists
                                             1 Lead Private Sector
                                             Development Specialist
                                             1 Lead Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Lead Operations Officer
                                             1 Rural Development Specialist
                                             1 Transport Cluster Leader
                                             1 Sr. Highway Engineer
                                             1 Highway Engineer
                                             1 Lead Counsel
                                             4 Consultants
              9/02                    13     1 Lead Economist, Mission
                                             Leader
                                             1 Sr. Social Development
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Lead Financial Sector
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Public Sector Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Operations Officer
                                             1 Sr. Health Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Economist
                                             1 Lead Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Procurement Specialist
                                             1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Rural Development Specialist
                                             1 Lead Education Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Management Consultant
              10/02                   33     1 Lead Economist, Mission
                                             Leader
                                             1 Sr. Social Development
                                             Specialist
                                             1 Sr. Environmental Specialist
                                             1 Financial Management
                                             Specialist



                                              - 52 -

                            1 Lead Financial Sector
                            Specialist
                            4 Sr. Economists
                            1 Lead Education Specialist
                            1 Sr. Public Sector Specialist
                            1 Sr. Operations Officer
                            1 Health Specialist
                            1 Sr. Health Specialist
                            1 Private Sector Development
                            Specialist
                            1 Lead Private Sector
                            Development Specialist
                            1 Sr. Private Sector Development
                            Specialist
                            1 Lead Procurement Specialist
                            1 Procurement Specialist
                            1 Sr. Rural Development
                            Specialist
                            1 Lead Specialist
                            1 Rural Development Specialist
                            1 Transport Cluster Leader
                            1 Highway Engineer
                            1 Sr. Sanitary Engineer
                            1 Sr. Financial Analyst
                            1 Lead Counsel
                            1 Sr. Evaluation Officer
                            5 Consultant
           2/03          9  1 Lead Economist, Mission
                            Leader
                            1 Financial Management
                            Specialist
                            1 Sr. Public Sector Specialist
                            1 Sr. Economist
                            1 Lead Procurement Specialist
                            1 Rural Development Specialist
                            3 Consultants


Appraisal/Negotiation
            3/03         24 1 Lead Economist, Mission
                            Leader
                            1 Sr. Social Development
                            Specialist
                            1 Lead Financial Sector
                            Specialist
                            1 Sr. Public Sector Specialist
                            1 Sr. Operations Officer
                            1 Sr. Health Specialist
                            3 Sr. Economist
                            1 Lead Procurement
                            Specialist
                            1 Procurement Specialist
                            1 Financial Management
                            Specialist



                            - 53 -

                                           1 Sr. Rural Development
                                           Specialist
                                           1 Lead Specialist
                                           1 Rural Development
                                           Specialist
                                           1 Transport Cluster Leader
                                           1 Sr. Sanitary Engineer
                                           1 Sr. Financial Analyst
                                           1 Lead Counsel
                                           5 Consultant
                6/03                  7    1 Lead Economist, Mission
                                           Leader
                                           1 Lead Counsel
                                           1 Sr. Management Consultant
                                           1 Adviser
                                           1 Consultant
                                           1 Program Assistant
                                           1 Team Assistant

 Supervision
               10/04


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            61.6                          189.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                165.9                          466.5
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 54 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA


*Poverty reduction in the area of human welfare (education, health, water and sanitation); it does not refer
to consumption/income poverty.




                                                    - 55 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 56 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit 1, Report No.: 7442-UG, , World Bank, March 2001, Africa
Region

Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit 2, Report No.: 24400 -UG, World Bank, May 31,2002, Africa
Region

Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit 3, Report No.: 26078-UG, World Bank, July 28,2003, Africa
Region

Uganda Poverty Reduction Support Credit 4, P074082 World Bank, June 2004, draft, Africa Region

Republic of Uganda: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Annual Progress Report and Joint IDA-IMF Staff
Assessment, Report No.: 26567-UG, August 2003

Uganda Country Assistance Strategy F2001-2003, World Bank, Africa Region

Project Performance Assessment Report: UGANDA Primary Education and Teacher Development Project
(Credit 2493), and Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 3049); Report No: 27538 January 2004

Implementation Completion Report: (PPFI-P6601 PPFI-P6602 TF-20115 IDA-25830) on a Credit to The
Republic of Uganda for the Small Towns Water and Sanitation Project, Report No: 27529, December 2003

Uganda Public Expenditure Review, Report No.: 27135, September 2003, World Bank, Africa Region

Uganda PRSC-II Quality at Entry Report, QAG, 2003

Statement of Uganda's Development Partners on Governance and Anti-Corruption, Consultative Group
Meeting, April 2003

Uganda Poverty Status Report, Ministry of Finance, Planning, & Economic Development, 2003

Uganda's Progress in Attaining the PEAP Targets in the Context of the Millennium Development Goals:
Background Paper for the Consultative Group Meeting, Kampala, May 2003, Ministry of Finance,
Planning, & Economic Development, 2003

Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy, Ministry of Finance, Planning, & Economic Development,
2002

Revised Poverty Reduction Eradication Plan (PEAP), Ministry of Finance, Planning, & Economic
Development, May 2000

Evaluation Capacity Development: The Development of Monitoring and Evaluation Capacities to Improve
Government Performance in Uganda, Arild O. Hauge, ECD Working Paper Series, OED, October 2003

Evaluation Framework for Direct Budget Support (Report to the OECD-DAC Technical Working Group
on Evaluation of Budgetary AID), Overseas Development Institute; European Commission), December
2003.


                                                 - 57 -

Managing Fiduciary Risk When Providing Direct Budget Support, DFID, undated

Evaluating General Budget Support (Issues Emerging from DFID Evaluability Study and Proposals for
Joint Evaluation Work), Aide Memoire, May 2003

Report on Allocative Budget Process and Work of the Sector Working Groups, August 2001

Information Paper on Changes in Poverty in Uganda ,1999-2003 (Paper Submitted to the Ministry of
Finance, Planning, and Economic Development)

Uganda IDA CAS White Paper for Education, undated

Poverty Reduction Support Credits in Uganda: Results of A Stocktaking: P. Miovic, June 2004

New Strategies, Old Loan Conditions: The Case of Uganda: Warren Nuamugasira et al; Uganda National
NGO Forum, April 2002

Rethinking Participation: Questions for Civil Society about the Limits of Participation in PRSPs: Jane
Ocaya Irama, Action-Aid International, Uganda, April 2004.

African Women's Economic Policy Network (AWEPON): Study on the Privatization of Water in Uganda:
Commonwealth Foundation, July 2003

The Ugandan PRSP Experience: Rick Rowden, May 2002, Bretton Woods Project

Structural Adjustment Participatory Review Initiative (SAPRI): Uganda Country Report, September 2001,
SAPRI

Non-Governmental Organizations in Uganda: A report to the Government of Uganda, Centre for the Study
of African Economies, Oxford University, December 2003

Are Government Budgets Becoming pro-Poor: An Analysis of Social Services Delivery Trends in Uganda,
Paul Mpuga and Sudarshan Canagarajah, draft, April 2004

Income Poverty in Uganda 1992-2003, John Okidi and Sarah Ssewanyana, Economic Policy Research
Center, Kampala, Uganda, mimeo, October 2003

Poverty in Uganda; 1999/2000: Preliminary Estimates from the UNHS, Simon Appleton, U. of
Nottingham, UK, mimeo, January 2001

Concept Note for a Uganda Poverty Assessment, M. Louise Fox, World Bank, draft of June 21, 2004




                                                   - 58 -

Additional Annex 8. Detailed Project Data



Project ID Numbers:                            Project Names:
P050438; P073671; P074081                      Poverty Reduction Support Operation
                                               TL Unit: Human Development I
Team Leader: Paud Murphy                             Country Department 4
                                                     Africa Region

ICR Type: Core ICR                             Report Date: May 23, 2004

1. Project Data

   Name: Poverty Reduction Support Credits                         L/C/TF GRTD-H0630
                                                                 Numbers:

        Country/Department: UGANDA                                Region: Africa Regional
                                                                            Office

                             General education sector (20%); Health (20%); General water,
           Sector/Subsector: sanitation and flood protection sector (20%); General public
                             administration sector (20%); General agriculture, fishing and
                             forestry sector (20%).

                             Other environment and natural resources management (P);
                   Themes:   Other financial and private sector development (P); Other
                             rural development (P); Other human development (P); Other
                             public sector governance (P)

  KEY DATES

                                                              Original     Revised/Actual
   PRSC 1
           PCD:7/1/2000                             Effective:11/29/01      11/29/01
     Appraisal:12/4/2000                               MTR:
      Approval:5/31/2001                             Closing:3/31/2002      3/31/2002

  PRSC 2
           PCD:9/25/2001                            Effective:3/12/2003     3/12/2003
     Appraisal:1/28/2002                               MTR:
      Approval:7/23/2002                             Closing:6/30/2003      6/30/2003

  PRSC 3
           PCD:10/3/2002                            Effective:2/11/2004     2/112004
     Appraisal:3/27/2003                               MTR:
     Approval: 9/9/2003                             Closing: 9/30/2004      9/30/2004



                                                - 59 -

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:               THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA/Ministry of
                                               Finance, Planning & Economic Development
   Other Partners



STAFF                              Current                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                    Callisto E. Madavo             Callisto E. Madavo
PRSC1
Country Director:                  Judy O'Connor                  James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                    Dzingai Mutumbuka              Frederick Kilby

Team Leader at ICR:                Paud Murphy                    Ritva Reinikka
ICR Primary Author:                Peter Miovic
PRSC2
Country Director:                  Judy O'Connor                  Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:                    Dzingai Mutumbuka              Frederick Kilby

Team Leader at ICR:                Paud Murphy                    Satu Kahkonen
ICR Primary Author:                Peter Miovic
PRSC3
Country Director:                  Judy O'Connor                  Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:                    Dzingai Mutumbuka              Robert Blake

Team Leader at ICR:                Paud Murphy                    Satu Kahkonen
ICR Primary Author:                Peter Miovic

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

Ratings apply to PRSC3 ONLY - although the ICR had to review PRSC3 in the context of the overall
3-year PRSC 1-3 cycle in order to assess the broader picture within which PRSC3 operated.



                                      Outcome:                         Satisfactory
                                Sustainability:                        Likely
              Institutional Development Impact:                       Modest
                             Bank Performance:                        Highly Satisfactory
                         Borrower Performance:                        Satisfactory
                                                 QAG (if available) NA
                               Quality at Entry:                      NA
                   Project at Risk at Any Time:                        No




                                                  - 60 -

Additional Annex 9. Stocktaking Paper




                      Poverty Reduction Support Credits in Uganda

                             Results of a Stocktaking Study




                                      Peter Miovic

                                     June 30, 2004




                                          - 61 -

Table of Contents:

  Background                                                                                      3
  A Brief Overview of PRSCs                                                                       3
  The Approach to Stocktaking                                                                     5
  PRSC Performance Measured Against PRSC Objectives                                               6
  Broader Concerns                                                                              20
  Conclusions and Recommendations                                                               33
  Annex 1 Partnership Principles between GoU and its Development Partners                       42
  Annex 2. Calendar of Major Processes and Missions                                             49
  Annex 3 Education Sector Undertakings                                                         50
  Annex 4 Principles for Determining Prior Actions                                              52



Tables
Table 1 Monitoring Indicators in Education                                                        7
Table 2 Monitoring Indicators in Health                                                           8
Table 3 Comparison of PEAP/PRSP and MDG Targets                                                 11
Table 4 Foreign Inflows and External Debt as a Share of GDP                                     13
Table 5 Budget Support, Program vs. Performance, 1998/99  2002/03 (US$ millions)               14
Table 6 Budget Support Programs vs. Outturns, 1998/99  2002/03                                 14
Table 7 Sectoral Shares of Expenditures, as % of Budget, 1998/99  2002/03                      15
Table 8 PAF as a % of Budget                                                                    15
Table 9 Headcount of Poverty in Uganda, 1992-2002                                               21



ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS: The paper was prepared under the general guidance of Paud Murphy (WB).
Satu Kahkonnen (WB) was instrumental in the design of the approach to the stocktaking. Robert Blake
(WB) was an endless source of information on the economy of Uganda and the history of World Bank
operations in Uganda. The Government provided useful comments. Additionally, many individuals in the
Government, the donor community and members of the PRSC team members (PRSCs 1 through 4), too
numerous to list, were generous with their time and responded to calls for background materials, comments
and suggestions. Among them Jonathan Beynon (DfID) deserves special mention. Robert Blake, M. Louise
Fox, Stefan Koeberle and Gaiv Tata (all WB) were the peer reviewers and helped me improve the final
product. I would also like to thank Alema E. Siddiky (WB) for the preparation of the tables and Ivar Strand
(WB) for a number of improvements in the arguments through occasional discussions during the
preparation of the paper. The responsibility for the arguments and recommendations and the remaining
inaccuracies, however, remains mine.




                                                    - 62 -

                              Poverty Reduction Support Credits in Uganda

                                       Results of a Stocktaking Study


Background

1.       Uganda pioneered the use of budget support operations known as Poverty Reduction Support
Credits (PRSCs) in the World Bank. The first PRSC for Uganda was approved by the World Bank Board
in May 2001, the second (PRSC2) in July 2002, and the third (PRSC3) in September 2003. PRSC4 is
now under preparation and is scheduled for Board presentation in June/July 2004.

2.       A number of other countries have joined Uganda in the use of this new instrument in support the
implementation of their Poverty Reduction Strategies. The teams involved in the design of PRSCs in
various countries have been sharing their experiences on an informal basis, and the Quality Assurance
Group in the World Bank has carried out a quality-at-entry assessment of several of these operations,
including an assessment of the second PRSC for Uganda. However, the overall Uganda experience with the
PRSCs has not been examined, and it was felt that a stocktaking exercise of the Uganda experience with its
first three PRSCs would be useful for several reasons: (i) to reflect on the impact these PRSCs have had in
terms of Uganda's poverty reduction program; (ii) to learn lessons to guide approaches to future possible
PRSC operations; and (iii) to provide insights for the larger issue (being studied in the World Bank and
among donors) of how PRSCs are operating as an instrument, modality, and process.

3.       Specifically, therefore, the objective of the exercise is to study what has worked, what has not
worked, and what could be improved in the Uganda PRSC process in the future. The exercise aims to
strengthen the consensus among the GoU and donors on the way forward in the area of budget support. It
should also help inform the internal debate in the multilateral and bilateral donor community on the
effectiveness of budget support operations and how they complement other available aid instruments.

A Brief Overview of PRSCs

4.       PRSCs were designed to channel programmatic lending to support policy and institutional reforms
in support of a country's Poverty Reduction Strategy, usually presented in the form of a Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). In the case of Uganda the PRSCs were designed as a series of annual credits
supporting a three year rolling program of reforms, based on Uganda's version of a PRSC, which is known
as the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) . The World Bank credits are in the form of untied budget
support, financing all government activities, in the same way as domestic tax revenues. The PRSCs have
been significantly co-financed by other donors in the form of grants which, like the World Bank credits
(although PRSC 3 was a grant on an exceptional basis), take the form of untied budget support.

5.       The specific stated objectives of the Uganda PRSCs are to:
        Improve public service delivery
        Strengthen government processes and systems
        Replace a number of concurrent donor systems with a single agreed system
        Improve predictability of resource flows; and
        Reduce transaction costs of aid delivery, as compared to transferring a similar level of resources
         through a series of projects




                                                      - 63 -

6.       Implicit objectives that emerged along the way include:
        Improved Government leadership and management of the reform program intended to eradicate
         poverty
        Better coordination and harmonization of donor activities and practices, and
        Improved coordination between Government ministries and agencies through the integration of
         specific sector plans into the overall poverty reduction program

7.       Each of the three PRSCs supported specific goals and objectives of the PEAP, which is built
around four pillars:
        Developing a framework for economic growth and transformation
        Ensuring good governance and security
        Increasing the ability of the poor to raise incomes
        Directly increasing the quality of life of the poor

8.       The reform program supported by each of the PRSCs is laid out in a log-frame type Policy Matrix
that sets out the objectives to be reached in each area, actions to be taken, and markers intended to make
possible an evaluation of whether the actions were successful. Among these, a subset of about 10-12 is
chosen as particularly critical, and form the Prior Actions which have to be taken by the Government
before the next PRSC goes to the Board of the World Bank for approval. Since the PRSCs have so far
been annual and the timing is tight, non-fulfillment of Prior Actions (typically required by April of the
budget year ending in June) can affect the flow of resources to the budget in the next fiscal year.
9.       The first PRSC selected the following aspects of the PEAP, as priorities for Government action:
        PEAP Pillar 4, directly increasing the quality of life of the poor, was prioritized by a focus on
         improving the delivery of education, health, water and sanitation services.
        PEAP Pillar 1, developing a framework for economic growth and transformation; and PEAP
         Pillar 2, ensuring good governance and security, were selected for priority actions in two areas:
o        Improving public expenditure management, and monitoring and evaluation
o        Improving governance (public service management, public procurement, financial management,
         legal and judicial reform and civil society participation).

10.      The focus of the second PRSC expanded into some aspects of Uganda's rural development reform
program, by prioritizing actions to improve:
        Agricultural extension
        Agricultural research and development
        Rural finance
        Land tenure
        Natural resource management, and
        Rural roads

11.      These actions were aimed at supporting PEAP Pillar 3 (increasing the ability of the poor to raise
incomes), given the fact that the bulk of Ugandans living in poverty depend on agricultural production for
their livelihood. One view of this component is that it too supported service delivery, but the services are in
the nature of inputs into income generation activities in the rural economy.

12.      PRSC-3 focused on actions to deepen reforms in most of the sectors covered in the first two
PRSCs, and incorporated additional financial sector issues such as pensions.

13.      The PRSC process aims to develop a relationship between the Government of Uganda and its
donor partners, in which:


                                                      - 64 -

       PRSCs operate as pure budget support financing mechanism, such as is already nearly the case
        with the support given by the World Bank and many other donors to the education and health
        sectors
       The Government firmly leads and manages all aspects of the reform program across all sectors,
        including prioritization of objectives, program design, implementation and monitoring, and impact
        evaluation; and
       Donors play the role of technical advisors and facilitators

The Approach to Stocktaking

14.     This PRSC stocktaking exercise pursues two lines of inquiry:
       It examines the performance of the Uganda PRSCs 1-3 with respect to their PEAP-related
        priorities, as well as the other objectives described in paragraphs 5 and 6 above; and
       It examines the way in which the Uganda PRSC experience can provide insights for the future
        application of the PRSC instrument both in Uganda and elsewhere

15.     The findings are based on:
       A stocktaking workshop with the Government and donors held on June 20, 2003 in Uganda;
       Interviews with Ugandan Government officials;
       Interviews with donor representatives involved in Uganda PRSCs;
       Interviews with members of World Bank's Uganda PRSC teams;
       Interviews with other relevant Bank staff;
       Uganda PRSC 1-3 reports and other relevant documents and data; and
       Prior assessments and evaluations of general budget support, including documents such as the
        study on the evaluability of general budget support carried out for DfID (see OPM&ODI, 2002).

16.     The stocktaking workshop of June 20, 2003 was attended by about 80 people from the Government
and donor communities. There was no participation by the NGOs or the private sector. However,
interviews were subsequently carried out with some thirty other individuals, some of whom represent
Ugandan NGOs. These exchanges have provided a way of assessing the problems encountered in the
PRSC process from a number of different, and in many cases, independent perspectives, and the
conclusions drawn in this paper have relied heavily on convergence of views.

PRSC Performance Measured Against PRSC Objectives

17.     Service Delivery. The overriding objective of the PRSCs 1-3 has been the improvement by the
Government of those basic services that are associated with the ultimate goal (outcome) of reducing
poverty in all its dimensions. The objective of delivering more and better services has been pursued through
a number of channels  by improving the efficiency and equity of overall resource allocation; by
strengthening systems and processes that would lead to better across-the-board governance and
effectiveness of the public service; and by improving the direct delivery of services such as education,
health, water, sanitation, and (later in the PRSC cycle), advisory services in agriculture, access to land and
rural roads.

18.     Education. A time-series examination of quantitative indicators in education shows improvements
in a number of aspects. Primary school enrollments showed an increase from 6.6 million pupils in 2000 to
7.6 million by 2003, and secondary school enrollment increased from 519 million students in 2000 to
nearly 750 thousand in 2003. The gender parity gap is almost closed with 49.4 % of pupils at the primary
school level being girls. The poorest 20% of Ugandan households have enrolment rates that are almost as


                                                     - 65 -

high as those for the richest 20%. Enrolment of children with special needs has increased tenfold. Some of
the indicators of input quality tracked in the PRSC Quantitative Monitoring Indicators matrix also showed
improvements (Table 1)  pupil/teacher ratio dropped from 65:1 in 2000 to 55:1 in 2003, pupil to
classroom ratio declined from 106:1 to 95:1, there were fewer pupils per textbook and the books reflected
a change in syllabus. Recent household survey indicates that the percentage of household heads with no
formal education decreased from 24.7% in 1997 to 17.8% in 2003.

19.     Survival rates for P4 level have risen from 44% in 2000 to 66% in 2003, despite the large increase
in primary school enrolments. There are concerns that intra-sectoral allocations may be shortchanging
secondary education, within an overall envelope for education that has shown a very strong increase over
time. Currently secondary schools can absorb only 50% of the primary school leavers (WB 2003c, Ch. 4)

Table 1 Monitoring Indicators in Education

 Indicators            Base
                       Year
                       1997        2000       2002     2003

Primary Enrolment 5.3 m.           6.6 m      7.3 m    7.6 m

Percentage o/w girls 46.5          49.0       49.2     49.4

Secondary              445 t       519 t      656 t    749 t
Enrolment

Percentage o/w girls n/a           44.0       45.2     42.9

 Pupil/teacher         100:1       65:1       54:1     55:1
 ratio

Pupil/classroom       124:1        106:1      94:1     95:1
ratio

Pupil/book ratio      -            6:1        n/a      3:1 *

Survival rate to P4                44.5       66       66.5
%

 Source : World
 Bank (2004a)
 Notes :
 * P3 & P4 grades
 only and with a
 new syllabus

20.     The education sector has a well established record of carrying out analyses of various aspects of
the educational system such as expenditure reviews, and tracking and value-for-money studies, which have
been improving the analytical base for addressing the problems. Tracking studies, for example, have



                                                   - 66 -

established that currently 90% of the funds allocated in the budget are actually reaching the schools, up
from 20% in 1995. In addition, the government has been working on developing new strategies for
secondary and tertiary education, and the National Examinations Board has put in a place a system for
National Assessment of Progress in Education (NAPE) to measure learning outcomes. Outcome indicators
are just being introduced and PRSC 4 is expected to track indicators such as "% of pupils reaching defined
levels of literacy and numeracy". To attract teachers to remote areas, schools in those areas are allowed to
use 15% of their budget for housing and a 20% monthly supplement to salaries as a special incentive.

21.      Health. There has been good progress in a number of health areas (Table 2). OPD utilization
(including the private not-for-profits) has increased from 0.40 visits per capita in 1999/00 to 0.68 in
2002/03. DPT3 coverage went up from 41% to 65%. Deliveries at health facilities declined from 25% to
21%, although there was a turn-around in the last

Table 2 Monitoring Indicators in Health

Indicators                      Base
                                Year
                                1999/00      2000/01    2001/02     2002/0
                                                                    3

OPD use (G + PNFP) *            0.40         0.43       0.60        0.68

DPT 3 coverage **               41%          48%        63%         65%

Deliveries in health facilities 25%          28%        19%         21%
(G + PNFP)

Approved posst filled by        33%          40%        47%         43%
health workers

Urban/rural specific HIV        7%           6%         7%          6%
prevalence

Infant mortality rate           82 (1995)    88
                                             (2000)
(per 1000 live births)

Under 5 mortality rate          147 (1995) 152(200
(per 1000 live births)                       0)

Maternal mortality              527(199      505(200
                                5)           0)
(per 100,000 live births)

Total fertility rate                                                6.9

Source World Bank (2003
a) & (2003 c)



                                                    - 67 -

Note
* OPD : Out-Patient
Department; G- Govt;
PNFP : Private not for
profit
** DPT3 : Deptheria,
Pertussis, Tuberculosis
vaccine

year from the low of 19% reached in 2001/02. Approved posts filled by trained health workers increased
from 33% to 43%, with still well over a half of the posts (and especially in the remote areas) not covered
by trained personnel. HIV sero-prevalence continued to stagnate in the 6-6.5% range, after having declined
in the 1990s from almost 20% in 1991. Outcome indicators such as infant and maternal mortality, and
total fertility, however, either stagnated or deteriorated. Incidence of malaria, the leading cause of morbidity
and mortality, with a major impact on agricultural productivity, also increased (MOFPED 2003c and
MOH, 2001).

22.      In the area of infant and maternal mortality, a Task Force on Infant and Maternal Mortality has
been constituted under the leadership of MOFPED in 2001 since this was viewed both as a very serious as
well as heavily inter-sectoral issue that could not be solved by the health sector alone. The report of the
Task Force has been acclaimed by the development partners as providing a solid basis for the way forward.

23.      Funding for the health sector has at least tripled over the past 4 years. Within the overall budget
envelope, there has also been a sharp realignment toward primary health care, from only 5% of overall
health spending going to primary health care in 1997/98 to 42% in 2003 (Table 4.6, WB 2003c). With
such a rapid expansion, there is concern that operational efficiency may be a problem. There is some
evidence that unit labor costs are higher in government than in for-profit and non-profit facilities (Reinikka
et.al., 2002), but additional refinements in analysis and comparators is required before clear conclusions
can be drawn. As in the case of education, government documents show a more systematic tracking of
inputs, processes and outputs, which will allow a clearer analysis in future of outcomes and their likely
causes.

24.      Water and Sanitation. In terms of quantitative indicators, the water and sanitation sector shows
rapid expansion in coverage. For example, in PRSC 3, all targets for new water and sewerage connections
were substantially exceeded (10 500 new water connections vs. 7000 targeted, of which 3000 for poor
households; and 318 new sewerage connections vs. 100 targeted). Internal cash generation devoted to
capital investments also exceeded its targets. However, despite these successes, there remain questions
about the efficiency of resource use. The budget for water and sanitation had tripled over the last three
years, but it is doubtful that this increase has been transformed into higher outputs on a pro-rata basis (see
WB 2003b, Ch. 4). On the other hand, some of these resources were spent on capacity building and
development of water resource management skills at the lowest level. With time, it is hoped that there will
be a pay-off in terms of the efficiency and effectiveness of the overall system. The resources have been
skewed towards urban areas and small towns (although small refers to every town over 5000 people), so
that only 15% of the population have absorbed over 50% of these resources in 2002 (Table 4.4, WB
2003c); this at a time when 85% of urban areas already have access to safe water, compared to only 55%
in rural areas. In addition, rural inhabitants are burdened with similar or worse disparities in sanitation
facilities (latrines/flush toilets); and in such areas, poor people, for whom time is a vital factor in generating



                                                        - 68 -

income, have to spend significantly more time compared to urban dwellers without water connections, to
fetch water from available sources.

25.       The Ugandan water and sanitation agencies are developing their capacity to track expenditures,
and carry out value for money analyses. The problem appears to be that the planning goals for the sector
are still too centralized without adequate influence from rural areas and more marginalized regions of the
country, although resources are being invested at the lowest levels as noted in the previous paragraph.
Unless the poor, who live overwhelmingly in the countryside, are brought into the planning process and
empowered to influence the provision of water and sanitation services, their needs will not be met. The
result will be continued deleterious impact on their health, especially infant and child mortality, and will
inevitably affect incomes.

26.       Agriculture. It is probably too early to say much about outcomes in the delivery of services to
agriculture, although some positive opinions were expressed about progress in agricultural advisory
services and in the use of non-sectoral conditional grants at the local level. Issues of land tenure have not
been getting sufficient attention until recently. Quantitative Monitoring indicators are just being introduced
for this sector, the main ones being the number of agricultural service providers and their geographical
coverage, and the percentage of previous year's land disputes resolved and the number of parishes in which
land titles/certificates of ownership (including customary) have been issued.

27.       The ground that still needs to be covered over the coming years can be seen from the MDG
(Millennium Development Goals) and closely associated PEAP targets presented in Table 3. The MDGs
are internationally agreed targets that are expected to be reached by year 2015. Some of these targets are
set relative to the situation in the country in around 1990 (e.g. headcount of poverty was to be cut in half,
infant mortality was to be cut by two-thirds), others are absolute such as universal primary education or
gender balance. It is clear that many of the goals are within reach if the progress over the last 5-10 years is
an indication of future trends. To reach others, such as infant and maternal mortality, the P7 net primary
enrollment rate, and the poverty headcount rate, will require a rethinking of the strategy.

28.       In sum, the amount and coverage of most of the targeted services in the social sector has improved
and there has been a tilt towards the poorest sections of the population in a number of aspects of service
delivery (Fox, 2004 and Mpuga and Canagarajah, 2004). Resources have clearly been reallocated toward
the areas targeted by PEAP II and supported by the PRSCs, and success is evident in most areas at the
input level (resources allocated, staff hired, and various ratios of service delivery). Most documents now
specify targets to be achieved, relevant people are more aware of input vs. output targets, and the depth of
analysis and knowledge of the various sectors is increasing. More work is needed to improve the efficiency
of resource use as well as the equity of resource allocation to the various regions and poor communities.
Perhaps the biggest challenge is in transaction-intensive areas that, in addition, require close coordination
of various sectors - e.g. in reducing the disturbingly high rates of infant and maternal mortality that on
present trends are not likely to be brought within a reasonable range of the MDG targets for 2015 (see
Table 3)




                                                      - 69 -

Table 3 Comparison of PEAP/PRSP and MDG Targets

 Indicator                         MDG Target     PEAP/PRSP         Current
                                                  Target            Status

 MDG Goal : Halve the
 headcount poverty by 2015
 Headcount poverty                 28% (2015)     10% (2017)        38%
                                                                    (2002/03)

 MDG Goal : Achieve
 universal completion of full
 course of primary education
 by 2015
 Net enrollment                    100% (2015)    100% of the       83 % poorest
                                                  poorest and       quintile
                                                                    (2002)
                                                  richest quintile  90% richest
                                                  (2015)            quintile
                                                                    (2002)

P7 net enrollment                  100% (2015)    100% (2015)       10% (2002)

 MDG Goal: Gender
 equality-elimination of gender
 disparity in primary and
 secondary education by 2005
 Primary Education:
Share of girls in total enrollment 50% (2005)     50%               49% (2002)
Share of boys in total enrollment 50% (2005)      50%               51% (2002)

Secondary Education :
Share of girls in total enrollment 50% (2005)     NA                44% (2002)
Share of boys in total enrollment 50% (2005)      NA                56% (2002)

 MDG Goal : Reduce infant
 mortality
 Infant mortality rate (per        31 (2015)      68(2005)          88 (2000)
 1,000 live births)
Children less than 1 year-old      NA             80%(2005)         63%(2001/02
                                                                    )
that received DPT3 vaccination

 MDG Goal : Improve
 maternal health
 Maternal mortality rate (per      131 (2015)     354 (2005)        505(2000)


                                               - 70 -

100,000 live births)

 MDG Goal : Combat
 HIV/AIDS
 HIV/AIDS prevalence rate           Halted and         5% (2005)           6.5%
                                    reversed by                            (2001/02)
                                    2015
                                                                           Rate peaked
                                                                           in 1992/93,
                                                                           and thereafter
                                                                           declined

 MDG Goal: Halve the
 proportion of people without
 sustainable access to safe
 drinking water by 2015
 Access to safe drinking            62% (2015)         100% (2015)         55%
                                                                           (2002/03)
water (rural)
 Access to safe drinking            62% (2015)         100% (2015)         55%
                                                                           (2002/03)
 water (urban)

 MDG Goal: Integrate the
 principles of sustainable
 development into policies and
 program by 2015
                                    NA                                     Work ongoing
                                                                           on
                                                                           environmental
                                                                           mainstreamin
                                                                           g

Sources: WB (2003a), MOFPED (2003a), and MOFPED (2003d)

29.     Strengthening of Government Processes and Systems. Because there is a lack of a systematic
assessment framework and accompanying information sources to evaluate progress in strengthening
government processes and systems, it is no surprise that views on progress made in these crucial areas are
mixed, based mainly on partial experience, impressions, and anecdotes. All those consulted agreed that
their judgments were insufficiently supported by the evidence that would emerge from a proper
time-tracked monitoring mechanism. Therefore, stocktaking in this area is somewhat tentative. Progress
has been made in strengthening and updating the legal framework and regulatory environment for public
financial management. Dramatic improvements in the accounting and auditing capacity of the public sector
mean that fiduciary risks have been reduced. The Government has procured an integrated financial
management system, but the roll-out and further development of this system pose a significant challenge.
The critical issue of the operational independence of the Auditor General remains unresolved. Monitoring
and evaluation functions need major streamlining to reduce overlaps, and to obtain the information that is



                                                   - 71 -

needed to make judgments and take decisions (Hauge, 2003). Coordination across government services is
generally regarded as patchy, which makes the planning and monitoring of multi-sectoral initiatives
problematic.

30.      There is evidence that several branches of the public administration establishment increased their
budgets without being able to demonstrate an obvious corresponding increase in effectiveness. Possible
areas that have been identified for streamlining include expenditures by commissions, proliferation of
districts, costs of operating the political system, costs of foreign missions, duplications within government
and the process by which the public administration sector is able to more easily obtain supplementary
funding during the budget year than other sectors. It is unlikely that the identified areas of public
administration that have increased their expenditures have had a poverty reducing impact, except in special
instances. There has also not been a notable improvement in the level of perceived corruption in Uganda,
which should have resulted from the introduction of stronger processes in public tendering, financial
management, transparency and accountability. The continuing problems of corruption reported at a local
government level are especially troubling because moving governmental initiatives to the local level is an
essential part of the poverty reduction strategy. On the other hand, many of the anti-corruption initiatives
are fairly recent, and it may take some time for benefits to emerge. It will also require a sensitive tracking
process that both detects changes in corruption, at the same time as identifying the emergence of more
opaque corruption techniques, and any unintended but dysfunctional consequences resulting from these
reforms. In any event, as long as the incentives that encourage corruption remain strong, and
follow-through on the law enforcement side remains weak, it is unlikely that rules, improved procedures,
and policing, without parallel socio-economic improvements will radically change the situation.

31.      Civil society participation in governance exists but is relatively weak and patchy. While civic
groups did participate in the Participatory Poverty Assessments and in the discussions during the
preparation of the PEAPs, there are few awareness-raising and advocacy NGOs able to enforce
accountability of government officials at the local level. There does seem to be a genuine commitment by
the Government to strengthen civic involvement, but it is not immediately clear what needs to be done to see
it materialize. It is important that the World Bank and donors involved in the PRSC, and other poverty
reduction dialogue and actions, help the Government encourage NGO and community involvement, and
take care to ensure that these voices are captured in the strategies and priorities that emerge.

32.      Improving Predictability of Resource Flows. Most of the participating donors expressed the
view that the predictability of donor-provided resource flows has improved during the PRSC program. Aid,
as a percentage of (a growing) GDP, shows no major volatility, although there was a step-up in foreign aid
of almost 5 percentage points of GDP from 1997/98 to 2001/02. This increase was the result of the
development of the first PEAP (1997/98), introduction of the Poverty Action Fund (PAF, in 1998/99) in
support of the PEAP, and the resulting qualification of Uganda for HIPC in 1998/99 with the subsequent
increase in budget support. All of the increase in aid came from budget support rather than from projects.
And about 60% of the increase came through grants rather than concessional loans (see Table 4).

Table 4 Foreign Inflows and External Debt as a Share of GDP

                  1993/     1994/     1995/     1996/    1997/     1998/    1999/    2000/     2001/
                  94        95        96        97       98        99       00       01        02
 Total            12.5      11.8      9.3       9.3      9.8       9.9      10.4     13.3      14.6
 Inflows
  Loans          6.8        6.6       4.7       4.4      4.0       4.5      4.1      4.4       6.0
  Grants         5.7        5.3       4.6       4.9      5.8       5.4      6.3      8.9       8.6



                                                      - 72 -

   o/w HIPC                                                     0.8       1.0      1.7      1.7
Private        7.6       5.7       7.0      5.1       8.3        6.3      1.6      2.2      3.0
Inflows

External Debt75.0        58.8      58.7     58.4      55.6       58.6     58.5     55.1     51.9
Total
Multilateral   45.4      37.5      41.5     42.4      42.3       47.4     47.3     51.4     48.6
Bilateral      17.5      12.7      13.1     12.0      12.2       12.5     11.0     3.2      2.9
Commercial     5.3       2.9       2.8      2.3       2.1        1.3      1.4      0.7      0.5
Banks/Non-Ba
nks

 National
 Accounts
 (% of GDP
 at Market
 Prices)
 Gross          14.6     15.7      17.1     17.0      15.7       19.2     19.5     19.7     21.3
 domestic
 investment
  private      9.2       10.2      11.4     11.7      11.0       13.7     13.1     13.4     15.4
investment
 public         5.4      5.4       5.7      5.4       4.7        5.5      6.4      6.4      5.8
 investment
 Consumptio     95.1     93.0      92.2     92.9      94.6       92.6     92.1     92.3     93.7
 n
Sources: WB (2002b)

33.     Actual percentage utilization of aid provided in support of the budget has been improving steadily
with amounts of aid of this type increasing since 1998/99 and the ratio of actual disbursements to the
amounts initially programmed increasing steadily from 39.6% in 1998/99 to 85.6% in 2002/03 (Table 5).
There were some within year variations, such as the cut-back at the end of calendar 2002 of a total of about
$30 million expected bilateral aid which did not materialize at that point because of the donors' concerns
with the sudden surge in military expenditures in the first half of FY2002/03. The Government handled this
by adjusting Uganda's ample foreign exchange reserves, typically running at 6 months' worth of imports.

Table 5 Budget Support, Program vs. Performance, 1998/99  2002/03 (US$ millions)

                         Program                   Outturn                    Performance
1998/99                  297.5                     117.9                      39.6%
   o/w HIPC              37.2                      45.0
   o/w non-HIPC          260.3                     72.9                       28.0%
1999/2000               364.0                      204.6                      56.2%
   o/w HIPC             38.3                       56.2
   o/w non-HIPC         325.7                      148.4                      45.6%
2000/01                 421.8                      293.3                      69.5%
   o/w HIPC             86.0                       74.4
   o/w non-HIPC         335.8                      218.9                      65.2%



                                                   - 73 -

2001/02                  644.5                     426.8                       66.2%
   o/w HIPC              77.6                      80.4
   o/w non-HIPC          566.9                     346.4                       61.1%
2002/03                   506.8                    433.7                      85.6%
   o/w HIPC               n.a.                     n.a.                       n.a.
Source: MOFPED

34.     Deviations in overall budget outturns vs. allocations diminished over time, with the discrepancy
index dropping from 9.8% in 1998/99 to 5.5% in 2002/03 (Table 6). And broad sector allocations and
outturns over the same period showed relatively stable trends (Table 7).

Table 6 Budget Support Programs vs. Outturns, 1998/99  2002/03

                  1998/99         1999/00    2000/01         2001/02      2002/03
Discrepancy
Index                  9.8           4.9        7.6             5.8           5.5

Note: Discrepancy Index is defined as the weighted average of absolute
percentage deviation between budgeted amounts and outturns.
Source: WB (2003c)

35.     However, this apparently stable overall performance hides some within-year budget fluctuations.
Allocations to the Poverty Action Funds increased from 17% of the budget in 1997/98 to 37% in 2002/03
(Table 8). Releases under the PAF closely tracked budgeted amounts. Protecting PAF expenditures and
sticking to the overall budget ceilings as much as possible, created a situation where any increases in items
such as defense expenditures, would have to be reflected in cuts in non-PAF expenditures. This is in fact
what happened in the first half of 2002/03, and led to some donors to withhold funds. With defense
expenditures running 18% above programmed levels at mid-year and public administration expenditures
exceeding their target by 3%, the non-protected areas of the budget were cut by 23% (WB 2003b, Ch 3).
Higher than budgeted outturns in security and interest payments were reflected in lower than budgeted
outturns in non-PAF protected areas of education and health. The process of reallocating funds within a
budget year through supplementary requests by certain sectors (in this case defense and public
administration) should diminish with the passage of the Public Finance and Accountability Act (2003).
This Act requires parliamentary approval before the release of any supplementary funds, forcing a
parliamentary debate on why the overruns happen and how they should impact other sectors.

Table 7 Sectoral Shares of Expenditures, as % of Budget, 1998/99  2002/03

                      1998/99        1999/00     2000/01       2001/02       2002/03
                                                                             Approved Outturn
Security              19.9           15.4        13.9          12.6          12.914.1
Roads & Works         6.2            8.1         8.5           8.3           7.47.4
Agriculture           1.0            1.5         1.5           2.2           2.32.3
Education             26.9           26.3        24.9          24.1          24.923.3
Health                6.5            6.5         7.4           8.6           9.69.0
Water                 1.2            1.5         2.4           2.6           2.42.6
Law & Order           7.2            7.3         6.5           6.7           7.06.9
Accountability        0.6            0.8         1.1           1.1           1.31.2
EF & SS *             2.7            4.6         5.0           6.5           7.47.2



                                                    - 74 -

Public Order          20.7            20.3          20.2         19.3         17.817.4
Interest payments     7.1             7.7           8.5          8.1          7.18.6

   Total               100.0          100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0100.0
* Economic functions and social sectors

Sources: WB (2002b, Table 2.4) and WB (2003c, Table 2.6)


Table 8 PAF as a % of Budget

                            1997/98     1998/99        1999/00     2000/01     2001/02       2002/03
                            pre-PAF
% of budget
allocations on PAF
PAF                         17          23             25          30          37            37
% of sector
allocations on PAF
Roads                       17          26             23          22          25            29
Education                 59            69             62          68          64            63
Health                      8           29             25          52          61            67

Source: Williamson and Canagarajah (2003, Table 2)

36.      There was also within-year variability in terms of actual cash flows. While this sort of variability
was not necessarily damaging in many areas, it did cause problems in agricultural sector where activities
follow a seasonal pattern and should be funded accordingly. For example, releases to NAADS (National
Agricultural Advisory Services) should have been heavily focused on July. Instead the mid-year shortfall
was made up in November and December of 2002 (WB 2003c, Figure 3.1).

37.      Local governments mostly received their allocations but there is a perception among those
interviewed that there is unacceptable diversion of funds from their intended uses in many localities and
that local governments often do not have the capacity to make effective use of the funds.

38.      Despite the clear benefits of direct budget-supported aid, Uganda is highly aid dependent, with aid
levels at 13-14% of GDP, effectively supporting one half of Uganda's budget. Various donors have
expressed confidence that aid levels will not suddenly drop as long as Uganda follows its current course,
and short of any political or military developments that alienate donor support. These assurances
notwithstanding, there is empirical evidence (see Bulir et al, 2003) that aid is more volatile than domestic
revenues, that its volatility increases with the rate of aid dependency, and that aid tends to be pro-cyclical
(amplifying, rather than offsetting the cyclicality of growth and domestic revenues). This possibility means
that the Ugandan Government should be vigilant about the risks that long-term aid dependency at this level
poses to the sustainability of its poverty reduction program, which could not withstand a sudden cut in aid
flows. It is also important to ensure that there is a long-term commitment within Uganda to the use of its
own resources for poverty reduction, because there will need to be a sustained internal effort long beyond
the life-time of current donor-supported programs, and there is a danger that poverty reduction will be seen
as impossible without donor subsidy. There is also the question of whether increased donor funding has
weakened Government incentives to mobilize resources locally. While donor aid is useful in making up for
a low-tax base in an agricultural economy, this can be viewed only as a transitional arrangement in



                                                       - 75 -

Uganda to allow for the strengthening of the agricultural sector, and cannot be viewed as desirable for
long-term growth and self reliance.

39.      In summary, direct budget support has helped make the overall budget envelope more predictable
although there continues to be a risk of sudden cut-backs, given that foreign aid is, in principle, annual
and could be cut back between years for a variety of reasons. So far, however, the main disturbances have
come from within Uganda due to within-year supplementary requests for the defense and public
administration over-runs encroaching on expenditures outside the PAF. This has forced expenditure cuts in
areas that may have an important impact on poverty alleviation (e.g. agricultural research and development
and some road programs).

40.      Transaction Costs of Aid Delivery. Various Government officials indicated that, in their view,
while some transaction costs had declined, there were significant costs to Government due to the size and
frequency of the PRSC missions (at least 3 per year, some with as many as 35 people), together with the
volume of PRSC-related documentation. On the other hand, there is little doubt that the Government
prefers the combination of the PRSC instrument and a small well-targeted set of investment credits to a
combination of investment credits and an occasional adjustment or sector credit. The costs of establishing
the parallel structures associated with investment lending, such as Project Implementation Units (PIUs),
separate financial management systems, and procurement procedures are thought to be high in a number of
respects. The Government argues that further proliferation of projects would lead to fragmentation and
non-transparency of aid, that the PIUs often attract competent people away from the Government by being
able to pay higher salaries, and that they make donor harmonization and the pursuit of sector-wide
approaches more difficult. They also argue that the PRSCs helped them sharpen the strategic focus of the
Government's reform program, that they did not distort resource allocations, and that they helped them
tackle cross-cutting issues in a much better way than investment projects. In short, the PRSCs are the
preferred aid instrument.

41.      Data for World Bank loans indicate that the size of an average investment loan/credit (typical
World Bank project) for the five-year period 1998-2002 for Uganda was $40 million while the size of each
of the three PRSCs was $150 million. The average preparation plus supervision cost of an investment
credit for the same period was $450,000. The average cost of preparing and supervising a PRSC was
$800,000. In addition, PRSCs often benefited from Bank sector staff overlapping their sector missions with
PRSC missions, but charging their time to the sector budgets. Adjusting for these, the estimates suggest
that Ugandan PRSCs transferred at least one and a half times the amount of dollars per unit cost of
preparing these credits than the typical World Bank investment credit to Uganda. Similar estimates for
other donors were not available, but a number of them indicated that through the PRSCs more was being
accomplished with the same level of staff input.

42.        Finally, the World Bank assistance strategy even before 1999/2000 was moving away from
largely project instruments, regardless of transaction costs, because in a number of cases the projects were
not working (education, health, water and sanitation). They were being replaced by sector credits, such as
the one in education (see paras. 59/60 below). The move from sector credits to multi-sector PRSC budget
support was the logical next step. The PRSCs would be complemented by projects in power and roads to
underpin growth and by projects supporting the development of capacity at the local government level. In
retrospect, the success in service delivery in education, water and sanitation, and less so in health, suggests
that the PRSC sector-wide, across-the-board, approach has been successful. It also seems to have lowered
the transaction costs to the donors and has helped strengthen the strategic focus in a number of other
sectors. While one cannot prove that the PRSC approach has been better as well as cheaper than the
("projects only") counter-factual, it is a reasonable bet that it was.


                                                     - 76 -

43.      Government "Ownership" of the Reform Program (Commitment to and Management of
Poverty Reduction). It has been customary in recent years for donors in Uganda to use the term
"Government Ownership" to describe donors' views about the extent to which a government demonstrates
its commitment to policies it has embraced, through tangible enactment of measures to achieve those
policies. The term is becoming increasingly unhelpful in the Ugandan context, partly because of its
underlying patronizing tone (that donors somehow have insight into government motivation that is more
accurate than government's public commitment), but also because the term obfuscates understanding of the
various issues that slow down and complicate progress. Through the PEAP, and through fulfilling the Prior
Actions required for three PRSC's, the Government has demonstrated its serious commitment to poverty
reduction and to the policies that are thought to be necessary to achieve such goals. At the same time, there
are clearly some problems in achieving full political support across a broad spectrum of interests, including
Parliament and NGOs. It is also the case that public administration still lacks the human, organizational,
and system capacity to easily implement policies that have been agreed, and that this is especially true in
terms of local government weaknesses and continued problems of corruption. There are undoubtedly some
difficult trade-offs facing the Government in its efforts to enact the PEAP, and these include issues related
to military expenditures, the conflict in the north, and attention to marginalized regions. These are not
simple dilemmas with easy solutions.. Donors complain about delays in Government delivery on
agreements. It is also clear that the Government still relies on a limited pool of talent, and this group is
heavily burdened, often caught between work to enact PEAP measures, and meeting donor demands.

44.      Improved Coordination within Government. The stock-taking process found that awareness of
the goals and mechanisms of the reform program is high at the technical level in Government, although this
varies across sectoral ministries. Ministries such as Education that had sector-wide programs before the
PRSCs were introduced, are leading the way. The large, rapidly evolving reform agenda is facing some
resistance among ministries accustomed to project-based donor funding; and weaker ministries are
struggling with the new processes required by the PEAP approach. The PEAP has made it clear that many
of the most critical poverty reduction reforms can be achieved only through the coordinated action in a
number of sectors, and the traditional boundaries around ministries, as well as sheer work-load, makes
cross-ministerial collaboration difficult. Some of the results from the review of the performance in service
delivery over the past few years suggest that weakest performance happened precisely in areas that required
intense cross-ministerial coordination.

45.      Nevertheless, as a result of Government introduction of various coordination processes,
cross-sector coordination, dialogue and prioritization of the reform program is improving, and the
allocation of resources is becoming more transparent. Among the most important coordination innovations
introduced by the Government is the introduction of a new inter-ministerial coordination mechanism, above
the ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED) placed in the Office of the Prime
Minister (OPM, 2003). This coordinating office will require strengthening and support in a number of
structural, capacity-related, and organizational areas if it is to fulfill its mandate. For example, some
competent Government analysts involved in the preparation of the Policy Matrix and measures of success,
should probably be assigned to this coordinating office. Even more importantly, the OPM group should be
responsible for following through on the implementation of the PEAP-PRSC policy measures, and report
regularly to the Implementation Coordination Steering Committee (ICSC) on PRSC progress. Both through
the ICSC and in direct interaction with donors, the OPM group should share vital monitoring information
with the donors involved in budget support. Special attention may also need to be paid to cross-cutting
issues that involve actors from many ministries since the centripetal forces to stay within one's silo (sector)
are powerful.




                                                      - 77 -

46.      A number of Government officials said that rallying commitment would be helped if the PEAP
policy matrix to guide the reform effort (which would include the PRSP matrix as an important part) were
prepared entirely by the Government. Some others argued that having parts of the matrix be a donor
demand (e.g. for issues touching on governance) would help put on the agenda reforms that are politically
difficult and might not advance without an outside push. However, such an approach would require a broad
consensus among senior officials.

47.      There is also a feeling that more needs to be done to raise awareness of and support for the reform
program in Parliament, so that Parliament itself can champion the reform program among the broader
populace. Preparing popular booklets such as "Budget at a Glance" or "Citizens' Guide to the Budget
Process" is one such effort (and the booklet was commendably available in seven local languages), but
more materials are needed. Government and parliamentary outreach would have to be matched by
strengthening the involvement of civic organizations, NGOs, and community groups in the PEAP process,
particularly at the local level, not only in terms of the debate, but at each stage of the cycle, including
planning, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. This should be a major goal for future PRSC
operations.

48.      Better Coordination of Donor Activities and Sectoral Working Groups. Donor coordination
and harmonization has improved, assisted by the Partnership Principles between the Government of
Uganda and its Development Partners (see Annexes 1 and 2). This document gives guidelines on preferred
funding modalities; proposes undertakings by the Government to reduce fiduciary risks; states the
Government's intent to put all developments assistance "on budget"; and suggests the preferred approaches
to collaboration with donors. There are now regular donor meetings of about two dozen sector and other
working groups, many of which are attended by government officials and a good number of which overlap
with the 14 Sector Working Groups set up by the Government to prepare sector Budget Framework Papers
(MOFPED, 2003c). These interactions have helped deepen individual relationships among donors and
between donors and government officials; they have also encouraged a constructive problem-solving
approach. However, there is some unevenness among the various sector groups in terms of the depth of the
strategic vision and the level of discourse, where the quality is well below that of the core government
ministries. Both Government and donors need to take steps to identify which are the critical working groups
(especially cross-sectoral groups) for the next PEAP-PRSC cycles forthcoming period, and help raise the
level of the lagging groups to the level achieved in such groups as education, health and, more recently,
water and sanitation.

49.      Overall Summary of Government and Donor Views of PRSC Process. There is a broad
consensus that the benefits of the PRSCs outweigh the costs, and agreement that progress is being made in
meeting some important PEAP goals. However, there is a more positive perception in Government than
among donors. This is partly because, with some qualifications, the Government strongly favors the PRSC
funding mechanism compared to project-financing, and is also strongly committed to the greater autonomy
and self-reliance the PRSC has encouraged. At the same time, the Government is candid about the
pressures this approach imposes both in terms of some increased complexity without a sufficiently rapid
growth in capacity and supporting systems, and on occasion, the heavy demands that donors, especially the
World Bank make on their limited time and resources. The donor group believes that the PRSC process is a
beneficial innovation, but that in many respects the PRSC operations to date have yet to deliver on some of
the stated goals of the process, and that there is a need for some significant adjustments in a number of
aspects of the design and implementation of PRSCs. These are discussed in the sections that follow.

Broader Concerns




                                                       - 78 -

50.      Poverty Reduction. The poverty numbers that have just emerged from the 2002/03 household
survey are likely to lead to a change in focus of the next (third) PEAP, and even more so in the case of
future PRSCs --- towards a more direct support of income generating activities and towards having to pay
closer attention to the North. Poverty reduction is the overarching goal of the PEAP, and therefore the core
reference point for the design of past, current, and future PRSCs. The achievement of PEAP goals
depends more on the increase of incomes among the poor than on any other single objective. This is
because the same rapid growth that will be needed to increase incomes among the poor will also help
increase domestic revenues needed for sustained delivery of basic services that are important in improving
the non-income dimensions of poverty. The first three PRSCs emphasized service delivery, strengthening
of governance and improving resource allocation, all of which help create a context in which poverty
reduction is achievable and sustainable, and which may contribute in indirect ways to increased income.
However, none of the PRSCs have taken up directly the jobs/incomes challenge that lies at the heart of the
PEAP (aside from some aspects of service delivery to agriculture that were introduced in PRSC-2).

51.      There is no doubt that social service delivery in education, health, water and sanitation can, and is,
contributing to the quality of life and a longer life-span in ways that are crucial to the overall poverty
reduction effort. However, there is little evidence to convince one that these improvements will lead to
improvements in incomes or reduction in the poverty headcount any time soon. Some production-oriented
services, such as research and extension or rural roads, could potentially contribute to raising incomes of
the poor, especially in sectors where the elasticity of poverty reduction with respect to an increase in
income is relatively high (Townsend, 2003). However, a number of other factors would need to be in place
before that result will be forthcoming, and growth in markets for agricultural products is clearly the most
important of these conditions. Better farming practices on their own do not necessarily result in
entrepreneurship and its essential skills. These are essential if incomes are to improve. It is not clear exactly
how PRSCs can focus on these aspects of poverty reduction, but as these are Poverty Reduction Support
Credits, and represent the key financial support from the World Bank and other donors for poverty
reduction, it would be difficult to argue that PRSCs (or complementary World Bank operations) should not
focus on such issues.

52.      The issue of the North is especially problematic. Poverty has hardly declined there in the last
10-12 years. As long as the conflicts with the Lord's Resistance Army and the Karamajong are not solved,
this situation is bound to continue and be reflected in the overall poverty profile for Uganda. PRSC is not
the instrument to tackle that issue, but it is essential for partner donors in the PRSC, who are better
positioned to work on conflict resolution, to ensure that this goal is not de-linked from the PRSC, but
remains a parallel, essential requirement for poverty reduction goals.

53.      Focusing on the accumulated analysis of poverty trends in Uganda, a key fact is that between 1992
and 2000, headcount poverty in Uganda declined from 56% of the population to 34%. (Table 9). Most of
this improvement was achieved before the Government's poverty reduction strategy had much of a chance
to have an impact. Rather, these improvements were the results of a recovery from war, benefits from
macroeconomic stabilization, various structural reforms, and the mid-nineties coffee-boom. Since 1997 an
explicit poverty reduction strategy (starting with the first PEAP) has been in place. Yet poverty numbers
from the 2002/03 household survey show a rise in headcount poverty back to 38% of a now much larger
population of Uganda, estimated at about 23 million at the time of the household survey. The number of
people in poverty increased from 7.2 million to almost 9 million, most of them living in rural areas, and
especially Eastern Uganda, where headcount poverty increased startlingly from 35% in 1999/00 to 46% in
2002/03. The mean per capita consumption of every group other than the top 20% of the population,
declined significantly; and income Gini coefficient rose to .43 in 2002/03 from .40 in 1999/00. In effect,
Uganda's growth over the past three years has been pro-rich and not poverty reducing. Inequalities were


                                                       - 79 -

larger in urban (.48) than rural (.36) areas (see Table 9). Geographically, poverty continued at above 60%
of the population in the North. Poverty increased strongly in the East and West and rose marginally in the
Center which already had the lowest poverty headcount. Increases in the rural areas were higher than in the
urban areas.


Table 9 Headcount of Poverty in Uganda, 1992-2002

                          Population     1992         1997/98      1999/00      2002/03
                          2003
Headcount Poverty
(%)
National                  100.0          55.7         44.4         33.8         37.7
Rural                    86.2            59.7         48.7         37.4         41.7
Urban                    13.8            27.8         16.7         9.6          12.2

Central                  29.6            45.6         27.9         19.7         22.3
East                     27.4            58.8         54.3         35.0         46.0
West                     24.7            53.1         42.8         26.2         31.4
North                    18.2            72.2         59.8         63.7         63.3

Gini Coefficients
National                                 .36          .35          .40          .43
Rural                                    .33          .31          .33          .36
Urban                                    .40          .38          .43          .48
Note: Figures for 1999/00 and 2002/03 were made comparable by adjusting for the
four districts that were in conflict and could not be surveyed in 1999/00 (Kitgum, Gulu, Bundibugyo and
Kasese)
Sources: Appleton, S. (2001), MOFPED (2000d), Okidi, J. and Ssewanyana, S. (2003)


54.      It is not yet known which factors account most strongly for this poverty reversal. It is clear,
however, that the growth strategy for Uganda cannot rely solely on a combination of the traditional
interventions applied at their current pace: infrastructure and human capital investments, improved public
administration, delivery of services, reduced corruption, relaxed regulation to encourage production and
exports, and macroeconomic stability. All of these remain vital and relevant, but they will not be sufficient
to reverse the worsening trend in income poverty. One major factor is the rate of growth of population
which, based on the recent census, was revised sharply upward to 3.4% per annum. Population growth
rate of that magnitude (Uganda's total fertility rate of 6.9 is one of the highest in the world), will put a
serious strain on the public resources and is likely to put the achievement of several of the MDGs beyond
reach.

55.      Hopefully the new PEAP will provide an analytical basis from which to design more direct
interventions that will impact jobs and incomes. Whether or not such measures can be supported by future
PRSCs, the success and contributions of future PRSCs will depend in large part on whether the
Government, with or without donor support, is embarking on a determined effort to increase the rate of
growth of the economy. This must inevitably require a significant reallocation of and an increase in public
resources, particularly in the area of infrastructure where the expenditures are substantially lower as a



                                                      - 80 -

proportion of GDP than in the economies that have achieved sustained rates of growth of over 7% per year.
It would be unfortunate if such a reallocation were to rob essential services of needed resources, although
even in this area, thinking will need to be done about priorities and the efficacy of boosting certain service
sub-sectors in the absence of job/income growth. Continuing commitment to poverty reduction will require
the Government to take tough budgeting decisions (including holding and ideally reducing expenditures in
defense and public administration), cost reduction and efficiency boosting measures in services and
government operations, continuing efforts to save resources from being siphoned away by corruption and
rent seeking, and renewed vigor in plugging loopholes and drainage in the collection of tax revenues.

56.      Capability of Government. Interviews with government officials and NGOs indicate that
improvements in institutional capacity are more visible at the national than at the district and local levels,
and that there is a wide difference among various sector agencies. Capability of government is at the heart
of more rapid growth, poverty reduction and improved service delivery. The process of capacity
strengthening and institution building has been underway in Uganda for more than a decade, and while
beneficial results have emerged, especially at the technical levels, the various interventions have also
demonstrated the complexity of building lasting capacity in a situation in which (a) new demands on public
administration are constantly emerging (including donor demands); (b) there has been a significant reliance
on technical assistance, and transfer to local capacity has been only partially successful; and (c) the task
has been made even more complex by the process of decentralization. Because capacity building efforts
have established only tentative links between increased public administration competence and poverty
reduction, much energy has gone into establishing systems and processes that often become ends in
themselves, rather than means towards ends.

57.      From the outset, each PRSC has recognized the need to focus on system-wide capacity building
issues, the "governance" pillar of the PEAP. Each PRSC has a fairly extensive annex that covers the
Institutional Reform Program that has been identified as needed to achieve PEAP objectives. Monitoring
has, so far, addressed the question as to whether these reforms have been enacted, and has not looked in
any great depth (except perhaps in the health and education sectors) at whether or how the reforms have
helped achieve poverty reduction goals. Future PRSC Institutional Reform annexes need to be more
integrated into the operations. This will involve calculating, however tentatively, the costs of the proposed
institutional reforms and fitting these costs into the overall budget envelope; and establishing an impact
evaluation framework which can test whether and how these reforms are impacting on poverty reduction
goals. It will also be necessary, given the burden which public administration already faces and the limited
capacity from which government can draw, to ascertain whether the reforms are sufficiently parsimonious,
or err on the side of unnecessary complexity.

58.      As the PRSC does not, in fact, implement capacity building reforms beyond budget funding and
enactment of particular measures, the process has to rely on the many other capacity building processes
taking place in core ministries, sector ministries, and local government. It is not sufficient to simply
acknowledge that these efforts are being undertaken. It is important that the PRSC/Government team have
a full appreciation as to how these current efforts are likely to support poverty reduction goals in practice
(not simply conceptually), whether there are key needs and gaps which the current capacity building
programs are not addressing but which are vital for the PEAP outcome, and whether the various programs
are sufficiently coordinated. As the PEAP goals are the over-riding goals for Uganda's development
strategy, the PEAP and PRSC provides the perfect perch from which to monitor and evaluate all the
various efforts being made to strengthen institutional and human capacity. If after such a review, it is clear
that there are still gaps and vital areas not being adequately covered, there may be a need for a parallel
program (such as CAPEP, Capacity and Performance Enhancement Project, proposed by the World Bank).
However, without the overview and integration of capacity building efforts, such an intervention runs the


                                                      - 81 -

risk of becoming another stand-alone initiative with limited results. There are five essential challenges that
need to be faced by future PRSCs in terms of the needed capacity to achieve PEAP goals. Firstly, is enough
being done to build capacity at the local level, especially in those regions that have experienced the sharpest
increases in poverty? Secondly, how can capacity be strengthened among the enablers of poverty reduction
(local community groups, NGOs, farmers associations, trade groups) to help them play a fuller role at each
stage of the process, but especially at the planning stage? Thirdly, what can be done to build an adequate
cadre of skilled Ugandans who can more rapidly and effectively take over from provided international
technical assistance, and reduce its need in future (and what can be done to provide them with the
incentives to remain in public service)? Fourthly, how can more effective, results-oriented
measures/indicators be established to determine whether the institutional reforms enacted are in fact
producing the poverty reduction contributions attributed to them. And finally, to be covered in more detail
below, what needs to be done to strengthen the Office of the Prime Minister to take the lead coordinating
role in linking PRSC-supported actions and goals to the PEAP, tracking the results of the reforms, and
operating as the key interlocutor with PRSC-supporting donors?

59.       Aid Modalities. Almost everyone agrees that budget support operations such as PRSCs are not the
best instrument in all situations. Sector-wide approaches (SWAPs, which can be financed either through
budget support, or as standard projects, or a mix of the two, but are NOT in themselves financing
mechanisms), may be superior when there are a number of detailed reforms and processes which take time
to implement and require a complex implementation design. Projects are needed in sector-specific situations
which have clearly defined, concrete outcomes, and where the country does not possess all the
implementation capacity needed. Uganda made a number of important policy reforms through SACs, even
though these sometimes caused relationship and financial flow problems (due to conflicts between donors
and Government). Uganda PRSCs have undoubtedly helped change the relationship between donors and
Government, and introduced greater flexibility in the management of resources. It is not clear, however,
whether, in terms of the PEAP goals, Uganda has the optimum mix of type of operations. In fact, it is not
clear how one could make that determination in a way that is more objective and systematic than
considered judgment.

60.       However, the World Bank's experience with education in Uganda may provide some clues. In
1993, the World Bank's Board approved an education project that was to support Primary Education and
Teacher Development (PETDP). This project was judged "unsatisfactory" in an internal World Bank
evaluation in 1996, which was the very year that the Government introduced the Universal Primary
Education (UPE) program. The World Bank supported the UPE through an Education Sector Adjustment
Credit (ESAC, approved in March 1998) which was essentially budget support to a SWAP in education. It
was judged internally to have been satisfactory. Moreover, the UPE galvanized the work supported under
the PETDP project which ended up being rated as "satisfactory" by 1998 (see Murphy, 2003). The PRSC
then continued to support service delivery and the reform program in education to the point where it is now
a "one liner" in the PRSC. If the education sector undertakings in say April of any year are viewed as
having been carried out and reported in the education sector review in October of that year, then education
is funded directly through the budget, as agreed earlier. The experience points to two possible conclusions:
the first is that the three modalities were interconnected and sequenced in a way that produced positive
outcomes and development of greater Ugandan self-reliance. The PETDP project needed a larger context in
which to be successful, and the education "one liner" prior action in the PRSC could not have happened
without an underlying SWAP-like process that underpinned the PRSC (see list of Education Sector
Undertakings in Annex 3 which is substantial, but is handled as "one line" in the PRSC). This suggests
that the background of a sector-wide strategy may be of critical importance to both PRSCs and projects.
The other possible conclusion is that PRSCs will have the greatest impact in sectors in which Government
has already demonstrated capacity and progress through the creation of a rigorous analytical framework, a


                                                      - 82 -

convincing financing plan, and the institutional framework to make the reforms happen. At the same time
Uganda's progression from projects, some of which did not work until put in a sectoral context, through
sector operations to supporting multi-sectoral actions via PRSCs, suggests that there is a point in a
low-income country's development where sector and budget support become an instrument that is superior
to the "projects only" instrument.

61.      Absorptive Capacity. At present, absorptive capacity rather than flow of financial resources is
considered by donors and some Government officials, to be the more important constraint. If more money is
coming into Uganda than can be used effectively within a given time-frame, one of the expected results
would be a rise in unit labor costs in the non-traded goods sectors. That, in fact, is what is happening in
Uganda today. Monetary authorities, in an attempt to control these inflationary pressures, have cut back
on the rate of growth of money supply. Given the large foreign aid inflows, either the exchange rate must be
permitted to rise (which is a disincentive for exports), or real interest rates must be raised (which is bad for
investment). Arguably the same dilemmas would exist if all aid came in the form of project funding rather
than budget support. The answer hinges on the proportion of budget or project funding that is spent on
non-tradeable goods (and it would be worthwhile to conduct some research on this topic). Whatever the
answer to this problem, it would make sense to find ways of identifying the parts of government in which
absorption is a special problem, and respond to these with a combination of more controlled release of
resources and measures to improve absorption capacity. In addition one could search for ways to help
build capacity in the private sector that the Government could outsource to. These and other issues need
discussion, and it is recommended that the evidence and options be discussed in the Government/Donor
PRSC team. This issue is closely linked to the next one: aid dependency.

62.      Aid Dependency. Uganda's aid dependency is high and there are signs of "Dutch" disease. As
mentioned in the previous paragraph, unit costs of non-tradables such as construction are rising much
faster than the overall price index. Uganda's effort to raise its rather low domestic tax revenues needs to be
redoubled as it now supports barely a half of total budget expenditures. This is also the stated intention of
the government. Large flows of aid, of any kind, prevent this issue from being experienced with the right
level of urgency. Significant reforms were introduced in this area over the last decade, and the outcomes are
far from satisfactory. There is among some donors a view that a continued flow of aid is more desirable
than an effort to replace part of such aid through tax revenues. This is based on the well-known arguments
made by Collier et al, concerning the negative impact of increasing domestic revenues in a largely
agricultural economy still undergoing significant reconstruction. When applied to Uganda, this argument
had legitimacy in the first decade or so after conflict, but should not be viewed as a long term solution. It
would not serve Uganda well to continue for the next decade or two financing a significant portion of its
poverty program through external loans and grants. That would signal a failure in being able to generate
and harness the potential wealth of the country to ensure that efforts to eradicate poverty are fully under
Ugandan control and are hence likely to be sustainable. No assurance from donors that aid flows will be
sustained should be taken by an independent government as a guarantee. This is not to argue that the move
from aid to domestic resources and investment can be a sudden one. The process is clearly long-term, but
needs to be better charted in the World Bank's CAS, and form a clear, agreed discipline among donors
when it comes to planning future aid volumes. The PRSC is not a useful instrument in this respect, given
its one year time frame. Even if the PRSC does not move to a multi-year program (and there are good
arguments for keeping it as an annual instrument), each annual operation needs to be planned within such a
multi-year aid program, and this should not simply be a reflection of estimated budget gaps. From the
perspective of both aid dependency, and the absorption capacity problems described above, it is important
that donors agree to some overall aid limits, coordinate rather than compete, and carefully scrutinize the
priority of all projects even if some of these projects are welcomed (predictably) by individual sector
ministries, or being energetically advocated (again predictably) by individual task managers. The World


                                                      - 83 -

Bank should also be willing to apply its own stated principle of encouraging utilization of grant resources
first, and operating in Uganda as lender of last resort. This should apply not only to projects and financing
contributions to co-financed operations, but also to disbursements.

63.      Political Economy, Conditionality, and Principle of Graduated Response. Issues of political
economy were repeatedly raised by Government participants at the stocktaking workshop. They argued that
as the implementation of adopted legislation proceeds, there are serious risks of policy reversals if the
reforms are resisted by influential vested interests. On this view, Prior Actions (see Annex 4 for the
Principles involved in selection of Prior Actions), which trigger the presentation of the next PRSC to the
World Bank's Board, should contain more conditionality with respect to actual implementation than with
respect to just initial policy enactments. While this balance has been shifting towards the implementation
end of the spectrum over the years, a number of donors still feel that there is insufficient emphasis on
results and outcomes and view Prior Actions as simply the start of the process. In some cases this emphasis
is accompanied by a demand that PRSCs include some element of tranching (i.e. that PRSC instrument be
"multi-year") based on the monitoring of these emerging results, and it is clear that some donors will
probably operate according to such a principle even if the World Bank continues to disburse on the basis of
the enactment of Prior Actions. As long as PRSCs remain a single disbursement one-year operation, there
is some danger that a significant lack of real progress following the initial enactment of a Prior Action,
could result in one or more donors withholding financial support from the next PRSC, or even holding up
disbursement during the current year. On the other hand, so far every year the PRSC processing has been
perturbed by events that had not been foreseen initially: substantial budget over-runs by mid-year,
unexpected defense expenditures, and leadership code issues created situations that would have presented
challenges that a multi-year PRSC might have had trouble overcoming. For this reason this paper argues
for a "graduated response" approach, while continuing to use the annual PRSC instrument.

64.      Some argue that if direct budget support were reduced or delayed, project financing would provide
Uganda with a floor to overly large fluctuations in overall aid. While this may be true in terms of aid
figures, it is unlikely to be true in terms of performance. When budget support declines, counterpart funds
become scarcer, and not all projects can continue uninterrupted. Choices are made, resulting in
interruptions and a decline in the effectiveness of aid. In addition, because a cutback in direct budget
support would probably be due to the deterioration of the overall performance of the country's reform
program, this fact would also reduce the effectiveness of projects linked to the issues being disputed. More
project aid is therefore not the antidote to possible cuts or delays in direct budget support. The answer is to
fix the problems that have caused the impasse, and to find a mechanism by which this situation can be
anticipated and managed to ensure that the economy is not destabilized. The answer may lie in the adoption
of a framework of graduated response, and the following paragraphs sketch three examples of such a
response.

65.      The PRSC process is based on an expectation that as Uganda will receive a major amount of its
resources in the form of budget support, that the flow of these resources will not be interrupted within a
budget year, and that the between-year changes will be reasonably predictable. Uganda qualifies for such
support because it has a fairly mature program of reforms (a poverty strategy, sector strategies, some
sector-wide programs, a reform-minded government with a track record, trust between government and
donors, and a wide net of working relationship with government officials that allows donors to assess
progress on a continuous basis). It is unlikely, although not impossible, that Uganda will veer off course
suddenly and dramatically. A look at the World Bank Country Performance and Institutional Assessment
ratings (which are important in determining the size of the World Bank's assistance program) suggests that
sudden large changes in these ratings from one year to the next are rare and virtually non-existent in
countries with mature aid programs. The most reasonable projection is that Uganda, being a mature


                                                      - 84 -

borrower, will by and large adhere to the performance framework agreed with the donors; and donors will
probably not have sufficient basis to suddenly reduce their budget support. Rather, the preferred response
would be graduated, a slowing down of disbursements or a delay providing the space for dialogue and
opportunity for the Government to seek remedies.

66.      Notwithstanding, there are some indications of donor impatience on certain aspects of Government
expenditures, lingering corruption, and the continued watering down in implementation of some policies
that have been enacted. If this situation continues, it is not impossible that one or a few donors may decide
to reduce their contribution to the overall budget support package. If situations that would trigger such
consequences are specified in advance, outcomes are in the hands of the country's decision makers, and
such donor actions need not be destabilizing for the entire program. This is another example of a graduated
response.

67.      A third possibility would be to include some element of segmentation in the release of funds within
the PRSC. There could be a core amount that is dependent only on the enactment of agreed Prior Actions
and continued good performance that Uganda is making in achieving agreed PEAP goals and maintaining
macroeconomic stability. Further amounts could be calibrated to harder demands for reform, whether these
are of a deep institutional nature or reforms that are more political in nature and call for strong political
leadership. The tricky issue will be to reach a consensus that will bind all donors rather than have a
particular donor's financing support linked to such issues. On the surface, the simple solution could be
donor parallel financing outside the PRSC tied to a donor's political or governance concerns. However, this
would be a superficial solution that does not address the deeper donor concerns about ways in which vested
domestic interests undermine progress. It is also vital that donor support in Uganda is well coordinated,
based on transparent country assistance strategies, with clear links to the PEAP. The transparency should
apply both to public scrutiny and to discussions within sector working groups to ensure compatibility with
agreed sector strategies. This needs to be combined with a careful assessment of absorptive capacity (as
discussed above), but also provide sufficient assurance of budget support for the following three years (on
a rolling basis) to enable the Government to plan the longer term interventions and programs needed to
make an impact on tenacious poverty problems. The recently signed Partnership Principles between the
Government of Uganda and its Development Partners (Annexes 1 and 2)), try to embody the spirit of this
approach. It is important that the issues described above are openly discussed at a senior level among the
donor agencies, to avoid a situation in which one or more donors feel they have no choice but to withhold
aid because their concerns are not being addressed.

68.      Scope of PRSC Matrices. As Uganda PRSCs moved from the first to the third, Policy and
Quantitative Monitoring Indicators matrices grew like topsy. Both on the Government side and among
donors, these matrices are judged to have become too large, and there is broad consensus that selection
criteria should be developed to guide the inclusion of new issues/areas, and to provide for the exit of others.
Government officials emphasized that actions cutting across sectors were much more successful when
included in the PRSC, rather than being pursued purely within a sectoral programs. In education, an
example is the interlinked program of teacher recruitment and deployment, textbook publishing and
classroom construction, for which responsibility falls within three separate ministries (MoPS, MFPED and
MLG), all outside of the Ministry of Education and Sports. As a result many ministries have attempted to
have their cross-cutting goals included in the PRSC policy matrix.

69.      As sector-wide strategies have matured in their various sectors, they have been moved into a
"one-liner" mode in the matrices although they are still financed under a PRSC. The real action in these
areas takes place at the sector level through continuous close collaboration between Government and
donors, punctuated by formal detailed reviews of the sector's progress within the framework of the sector


                                                     - 85 -

strategies, as well as the PEAP and the PRSC. This has helped control some of the growth of the matrix,
especially when education and health sectors were converted to this "one liner" mode, although each "one
liner" was underpinned with a rather extensive list of undertakings (see Annex 3 for the case of education
or PRSC 4 document for several other sectors). However, care must be taken to ensure that where there are
links between sectors that have been reduced to one-line entries in the matrix, and other sectoral actions
that are fully described in the Policy Matrix, that these links continue to be made specific. Ultimately, the
"one liner" mode may just be helping to hide the fact that the scope of the PRSCs has reached its limits. It
may be time to consider supporting some sectors through separate operations. One idea, in view of the
recent rise in income poverty, might be to design a budget-support operation that focuses on economic
growth issues.

70.      Results Orientation. As indicated earlier, there is a strong concern among donors that judging
progress under PRSCs needs to be based more firmly on tangible results, that Prior Actions more
specifically spell out the milestones and intermediate outcomes that these actions are intended to produce,
and that less reliance is given to judgments based on observing a process under way. Discussions
concerning results orientation focused on two main elements. The first is the issue of better alignment,
between the PEAP and the PRSC, and between the outcomes sought in the Policy Matrix and the
Quantitative Monitoring Indicators used to track progress. Improved alignment between the PEAP and the
PRSC seems to be, in part, a matter of accurate prioritization,--that the PEAP should be the main
derivative source for the PRSC, even though there may be other valuable public administration reforms that
require attention. The PRSC goals should do more than mirror the poverty reduction goals of the PEAP,
but should be established, implemented, and evaluated in a way that directly captures the concrete poverty
reduction goals the Government has prioritized. The links in other words should go beyond a conceptual
foundation (e.g. that "actions of this nature have been shown to ...."). Improved alignment between the
Policy Matrix and the Quantitative Monitoring Indicators, suggests a tighter discipline, both in terms of
determining what is possible to achieve, over what kind of time frame, and assuming the policy measures
are both appropriate to the situation and implemented effectively, what sort of changes should it be possible
to detect, in very specific terms.

71.      The second issue related to an improved results-orientation concerns the actual rigor of the
methodology, the way goals are set based on what can be measured, the way indicators and outcomes are
derived from both the situation and the types of reforms, the information that would need to be collected
and interpreted to inform both tracking and impact evaluation, and the rigors needed to ensure validity,
reliability, and utility of the process. Validity concerns whether what we are measuring is, in fact, what we
believe we are measuring, rather than the result of factors that are not related to the particular reform.
Reliability concerns the extent to which we can depend on the data and the interpretations, and the extent to
which generalized conclusions can be derived from them. Utility (or usefulness) concerns whether the
findings are sufficiently clear, detailed and practical to underpin decision-making (to continue the reforms
as planned, to change course, to add other supportive measures, and the like).

72.      Donors frequently raise the issue as to whether we are actually observing cause and effect in
evaluating PRSC outcomes, or merely observing correlations. They also raise the issue of the intervening
variables (factors that are not being controlled for, or even, for that matter measured) that can explain
poverty reduction trends as convincingly as (or alongside) the impact of PRSC reforms. Just as important
is the fact that if the analysis and/or the information base is incomplete, the utility of such evaluations is
compromised, because policy analysts do not have sufficient insight into what is happening to be able to
propose adjustments or additions that will be strategically powerful. Given a situation in which the
Ugandan Government is burdened by a huge agenda of reform and ongoing routines, there needs to be a
parsimony in the formulation of policy proposals. Evaluation that is based on incomplete analysis,


                                                      - 86 -

inevitably results in falling back on prevailing "development ideology" rather than Ugandan realities, and
encourages the view that donors are using the country as a laboratory for testing their favorite theories.
This is often a charge (whether or not justified) made by NGOs that feel they are close to the reality, but
whose contributions to the policy debate are marginalized because "money rather than truth drives the
reforms". A more rigorous and wider-based evaluation process will not only help hone policy formulation,
but can also help stimulate the participation of civil society.

73.      In summary, an improved results-oriented evaluation process could strongly benefit both the PRSC
cycle and help strengthen policy analysis related to poverty reduction in Uganda. Such improvements would
not only include a deeper analysis of the actual outcomes that a set of reforms would be expected to
achieve, and the milestones on the way to those outcomes, but would also focus on whether there is actually
sound (valid, reliable, useful) information and analysis that can demonstrate the impact of reform
interventions. Little is to be gained by trying to control for variables outside of the PRSC reform agenda, as
there is no practical way in which this can be achieved, and such a hope tends to fuel speculative judgment
rather than rigorous analysis. Rather the evaluation model needs to be broad enough to encompass all the
major factors that will have an impact on poverty reduction goals, including factors not being targeted in
the PRSC. It therefore follows that the PRSC should be meticulous in describing the broader set of factors,
indicating how the actual PRSC reform goals fit within that broader framework, and how some of these
factors could support or obstruct the achievement of PRSC goals. This approach would provide additional
realism to the nature of the PRSC intervention, and help the Government focus on the broader reality. It is
also likely to be popular with donors who sometimes express the view that the PRSC process claims too
much; and it would avoid the problem of having to explain after-the-event, why poverty has increased in
Uganda to a greater extent since the PRSC process was introduced.

74.      At a more detailed level, more attention needs to be given to developing a set of strategic questions
that need to be posed about the reform program and its results. An example is the areas of efficiency of
expenditure allocations and in operational efficiencies within each of the "one liner" sectors. There has been
a rapid increase in social expenditures, but are they efficient and/or cost effective, and when compared to
other expenditures such as agricultural research and extension or rural roads, are their cost/benefit ratios
competitive? Can increasing expenditures on public administration be justified in terms of their impact on
better service delivery, more rapid and higher quality growth, or greater poverty reduction? At the level of
operational efficiency, are programs in education or health or water and sanitation giving high
value-for-money? What are the factors at a local level that tend to drain or divert resources from their
intended goals, how can these be monitored, and what actions can help diminish these tendencies? The
envelope in these areas needs careful management since resources are scarce and there are still many unmet
needs. The process of prioritizing and formulating reform goals and designing the evaluation process may
benefit from the use of tools such as Poverty and Social Impact Analyses.

75.      It is also vital that a careful assessment is made of the many studies and information bases related
to poverty in Uganda, in an effort to bring together the best of these, streamline or eliminate information
that is being collected on a routine basis but may have limited utility, validity, or reliability. This task
should be located in the Office of the Prime Minister, with appropriate donor support, to help strengthen
the overview, coordination, and analytical strength of that office.

76.      Annual vs. Multi-Year PRSCs. There is strong support among the PRSC donors for moving from
annual PRSC operations to a multi-year PRSC. They argue that many of the issues raised in this paper
could be more readily addressed by such a move. While progress is monitored during the PRSC year, the
annual nature of the exercise places the spotlight on Prior Actions and perhaps insufficiently on results and
outcomes. It is also very difficult to identify reforms that will show results in a year, and given the pressure


                                                       - 87 -

to come up with Prior Actions each year may be leading to a situation where there is insufficient time for
the reforms to take root. A multi-year PRSC could help focus greater attention on results, and encourage
the establishment of longer-term goals which are appropriate to the challenges of poverty reduction. The
establishment of additional reforms, or adjustments to those under way could take place "organically", as
the situation requires, rather than a "mechanical annual process". This could also help reduce the huge
PRSC missions that draw criticism from Government and donors alike. Similarly, the disbursement of
funds could become more flexible, like a facility rather than a one-time disbursement, allowing a better
alignment with the budget process. This could also help with the problems of absorption and aid
dependency. For a multi-year PRSC to have this flexibility and capacity to adjust to Ugandan needs and
realities, the operation would have to provide the task manager the powers to respond without continually
seeking authority. It should suffice for an interim report to be sent to the Board annually, and shorter notes
whenever a major adjustment or an innovation is required. If the multi-year PRSC were simply a
repackaging of a number of annual operations under one cover, there would be little benefit. So it is
recommended that the current reviews concerned with the possibility of introducing multi-year PRSCs
focus primarily on the kinds of improvements and flexibilities required, and work to achieve as
procedurally light an instrument as possible. While the thinking on this issue should continue, this report
argues that at the moment the uncertainties and unexpected events that have occurred annually in Uganda
(see para. 63) are better handled through a graduated response based on a series of annual PRSCs.

77.      PRSC Coordination and Management. Closely linked to the need for an improved results
orientation is the issue of how to improve coordination and management of the PRSC process. There are
two dimensions of coordination and management worth considering. The first relates to coordination and
management within the Government, which has taken the important step of vesting overall responsibility
for reviewing and coordinating the PRSCs within the Office of the Prime Minister. For this step to work
effectively, OPM must have more than simply review and coordinating responsibility. What is needed is
more than a secretariat. The PEAP and PRSC process lie at the heart of the Ugandan development
program, and cut across all sectors. Therefore OPM should be vested with the seniority and executing
authority to pro-actively coordinate the program in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the sector
ministries (which are responsible for the actual management of their reform programs), propose changes,
analyze decisions, convene donor meetings and represent the Government at all such meetings, and report
directly to the head of state on the progress of the project. This would require a significant capacity
building effort, to bring the level of talent needed into OPM, establish the information bases required, and
streamline decision-making. It is proposed therefore that the next PRSC include specific goals for the
design of OPM's PRSC coordination unit, supported by the necessary technical assistance, training, and
other strengthening measures. This may be ideal for a UNDP or bilateral donor funded support project,
because such an operation may be more likely than a Bank operation to be launched rapidly and contain the
flexibility to adjust to a "learning-by doing" approach.

78.      The other dimension of PRSC coordination and management that is worth reviewing is the location
of Task Management responsibility. If greater attention is to be given to results and outcome milestones,
and especially if the PRSC is to be transformed into a multi-year operation, there would be significant
benefits from locating the management of the operation at the Resident Mission. The fact that the PRSC is
the core operation in Uganda's development program implies that the PRSC should be the major concern of
the Country Director/Manager, who should have the Task Manager and Core Team on location. This
would enable the reform process to be more closely monitored, with greater learning from observation. In
addition, there would be better coordination with the major sector reform efforts, improved coordination
with donors, an opportunity to facilitate greater involvement from community groups, civic organizations,
and NGOs, better on-the-spot understanding of the problems and obstacles affecting implementation in the
regions, and direct, every-day consulting support to key implementors in the Ugandan government. The


                                                      - 88 -

Country Director and Task Manager can request the additional specialized assistance from headquarters as
needed, as well as make better use of expertise within the partner donor agencies. In this way, locating the
Task Manager and small Core Team in Uganda could be a valuable contribution to the Bank's goal of
decentralizing operations and increasing country accountability. It is also likely that the replacement of very
large, frequent PRSC missions would off-set the costs of local location, and perhaps even lead to net cost
savings.

79.      Environmental Degradation. The Participatory Poverty Assessment shows that the environmental
degradation trends have continued and perhaps worsened during the PRSC cycle, and that there is no
evidence as yet that either the level or the risks have been reduced (the PRSC goal: see PRSC-III Program
Document, paragraph 137, page 41). Losses due to environmental degradation have been estimated to lie
within the range of 4 to 12 percent of GDP. Significant causes continue to be loss of forest cover, water
pollution due to industrial and domestic waste, over-fishing, destruction of native fish species by
introduction of foreign species, over-grazing, and encroachment on wildlife areas and wetlands. PRSC
focused on strengthening institutional structures (chiefly NEMA), designing conservation and protection
strategies, and training (especially at the local government level). Progress has been made in many aspects
of this component as it was designed, although progress in achieving the stated PRSC goal is some way off.
A number of environmental policies have been put in place: for forests (2001); wetlands (2001); and soil
(2003). Responsibility for environmental management has been formally devolved to district and lower
governments. An Environmental and Natural Resources Sector Working Group was established in 2001 to
prepare and harmonize sector plans and budgets. Environmental training and manuals have been given to
relevant government agencies, NGOs, and district and sub-district officials. An Environmental Governance
Review has been launched, and the first steps taken to establish a National Forestry Authority. The
viability of this approach to reducing environmental degradation depends on the adequacy of capacity and
resources at the levels of primary responsibility, namely district and sub-district governments. It is clear
that at present, neither the resources nor the capacity are adequate, and the sustainability of the
decentralized approach remains uncertain. The policies themselves have also not been adequately funded,
so implementation will be slow and uneven until they are. At the moment the Government funds only 10%
of the recurrent budget of NEMA, with the rest supplied by donors. Environmental management depends to
a large degree on voluntary adoption of effective practices and avoidance of harmful ones, and this requires
a strongly participative approach to decision-making and a clear awareness of rights. Progress on this front
is slow and there have been complaints of people being excluded from the decision-making process. While
issues of environment are not central to the PRSC process, they do tend to be cross-sectoral and could be
supported through PRSCs. However, this would further strain the already large scope of the PRSCs.
Perhaps the solution lies in well-focused "hands on" technical assistance along the lines that seems to have
been successful in improving financial management and procurement procedures.

Conclusions and Recommendations

80.      The PEAP and PRSC processes have led to a substantial sharpening of the overall vision of
development and its main strategic components that Uganda is to follow, helping focus the allocation of
resources, increasing the efficiency of basic service delivery, and improving the coordination of the type of
cross-sectoral efforts needed for poverty reduction in its various dimensions. The consensus is that the
process should continue but with a number of important adjustments, several of which have already been
started in PRSC 4, currently under preparation (such as a more results-oriented framework, the
improvement of government coordination mechanisms, and the development of the Principles for
Determining Prior Actions).

81.      Conclusions and Recommendations of the stocktaking of the Ugandan PRSCs are as follows:


                                                      - 89 -

(a)      Government Commitment to and Management of Poverty Reduction.. The PEAP/PRSC process
has strengthened Uganda's strategic development vision and has raised the awareness of this vision within
central Government, Parliament, local governments, and civil society. The core ministries have
demonstrated their commitment to leading and managing the process, and the recent decision to locate
PEAP/PRSC coordination and oversight in the Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) is an invaluable sign
of growing self-reliance. There are still cases of delay and unevenness in Government responsiveness, but
this is not surprising in a public administration that still lacks essential capacity, and is often burdened by
donor demands and frequent innovation and change. However, it does underline the fact that poverty
reduction will proceed only at the pace at which the Government can respond. Major obstacles still exist at
lower staff levels and within local government. There are still many aspects of the poverty reduction
program which are politically sensitive, especially concerning resource allocation, and the Government
often struggles with the balance among factors that are not always mutually supportive, -- moving the
reform program forward, acting on controversial issues like corruption, building political will, increasing
the level of Parliamentary and civil society involvement in the policy dialogue driving poverty reduction,
and maintaining domestic stability. The ongoing problems in the north and on Uganda's borders, are clearly
additional complicating factors. The way the Government is able to manage these often conflicting factors
will come under increasing pressure if the next phase of the PEAP and its accompanying PRSCs are to
make the key shifts needed in Uganda's development strategy. This shift of vision will require a
wide-ranging dialogue involving the participation of all the main stakeholders engaged in the process of
implementation. This will be helped if the Government can take a clearer lead in the production of both
policy and governance matrices that summarize the essence of the PEAP. Donors should focus on
reinforcing the Government's efforts rather than being seen as the main drivers behind more controversial
policy issues.

(b)      Service Delivery. There is little doubt that PRSC-supported programs have increased the amount,
the range and some aspects of quality of the services delivered, including by and large those delivered to the
poor. Major resources have been channeled to primary education, basic health, water and sanitation and,
more recently, agricultural services. Results are evident at the input level (resources allocated, enrolment,
patient visits, vaccinations administered, etc.) The PEAP and PRSC processes have helped focus planning
processes on outputs and outcomes rather than simply on inputs, and there is a better grasp, at least among
senior Government management and technical staff about the desired outputs and outcomes that are being
pursued through greater inputs. These planning documents show an increased depth in analysis and
understanding of the key issues. The PRSC-supported pursuit of the PEAP goals has thus had a noticeable
impact on the ways of thinking about service delivery.

(c)      Poverty Reduction Model. The first PRSC for Uganda clearly chose to focus on the human
development dimensions of poverty that are improved through more and better education, health, and
access to water and sanitation. The choice was to pay less attention to those parts of Uganda's second
PEAP that stressed income generation, although both the first as well as the two subsequent PRSCs did
support continued macroeconomic stability, better allocation of public resources, improved governance and
some aspects of agriculture, all of which are needed to achieve rapid and sustained economic growth. With
hindsight, given the increase in headcount poverty between 1999/2000 and 2002/03, the focus of PRSCs
might usefully have been somewhat different. It is true that the World Bank CAS also had in place parallel
projects that dealt with issues such as additional power generation and support to the 10-year investment
plan for the development of Uganda's road network. It is not clear, however, that the integration of these
with the objectives of the PRSCs was pursued aggressively. Growth was mostly left to other parts of the
Uganda Country Assistance Strategy even though one of the stated outcomes by which PRSCs were to be
measured was "(income) poverty reduction", even though the main objective was improved service



                                                      - 90 -

delivery. While overall macroeconomic stability and improved human development services are necessary
conditions for long term poverty reduction, they have been shown to be insufficient to make a significant
dent in headcount poverty figures in the shorter term. The lives of many of the poor have undoubtedly
improved through access to more and better services, but the percentage of those suffering income poverty
has increased in the last three years. The third PEAP, now under preparation, will likely attempt to redress
this imbalance. The main challenges will be how to raise the rate of growth to the 7% per annum range;
how to retarget the growth pattern to be more pro-poor; how to tackle sharply rising poverty in the East and
continued high poverty in the North; what to do about the high population growth rate and high maternal
and infant mortality rates; what to do about the emerging pattern of increasing inequalities; and what kinds
of interventions can stimulate job growth, increase incomes and develop new markets. Sharply increased
investments in infrastructure (roads, power) are part of the answer but in general the "growth" part of
Uganda's Poverty Reduction Model is much less developed than its "service delivery" (human
development) part.

(d)      Government Processes and Systems. The PRSC process has helped strengthen government
processes. There has been good progress in cross-cutting areas such as procurement, financial
management, accounting, audit, law and order, and with them, some increase in transparency and
accountability, and some progress in tackling corruption. However, to achieve significant and lasting
reform in these areas, the efforts will have to be exerted over many years, because the interests and
incentives that thrive on lack of transparency will continue to be present, and it may well prove to be easier
to re-corrupt the system than to maintain the reforms achieved so far. The revitalization of the faltering
effort to improve public administration should be seen as another step in the process that began more than a
decade ago, and still has much to achieve. Government is still overwhelmed by systems and procedures, as
well as constant innovations, and there is still an inadequate understanding of the difference between the
essential and the desirable. Until this understanding is applied, Government cannot achieve the lean and
effective profile needed for rapid interventions and response, rapid understanding of the impact of
interventions, and the flexibility to adapt to different and changing circumstances. Priority should be given
to nurturing well-functioning Sector Working Groups, reinforcing essential cross-sectoral collaboration,
and fostering the capacity to analyze areas in which projects can best complement the budget/import
support operations. There is also urgent capacity building required at the delivery end of line ministries,
and at both planning and implementation levels of local government. Without that, many well intended
policies and reforms will be stalled or diluted by the time the benefits reach the poor. While each PRSC has
a substantial annex on the institution building issues and what needs to be done, the necessary actions are
typically not costed out (and hence under-funded or not-at-all funded in the budget). Capacity building
needs to be better integrated into the budget and it may be necessary to develop some carefully targeted
complementary capacity building projects, within the context of the relevant Sector Working Groups (and
hence sector strategies) and fitted into the MTEF. The next PRSC should focus special attention on
building capacity within OPM to ensure that office can effectively oversee the PEAP/PRSC process.

(e)      Predictability of Resource Flows. The PRSC process has improved the predictability of resource
flows at the aggregate level. There were, however, some problems with the flows at the sub-national level
that need to be addressed. These were not due to the failure of PRSCs to deliver the funds, but rather due to
lapses in implementation on the Government side. These are issues such as disruptive mid-year
supplementary budget requests, failure to release resources budgeted for seasonally sensitive needs in
agriculture in a timely way, as well as ensuring that agreed budget releases to local governments are
actually used for their intended purposes.

(f)      Transaction Costs are viewed to have declined. The Government, while complaining about the
size of PRSC missions and the reform agenda that leaves little room for any down time, has made it clear


                                                      - 91 -

that the budget support approach is by far the preferable way of proceeding. On the World Bank side there
is some evidence that resources transferred per dollar of preparation cost are considerably higher for the
PRSC than for regular Bank investment projects. In the next stage attention should focus on improving the
impact of the transferred resources rather than worrying too much about the costs of transfer.
Well-functioning Sector Working Groups that are inter-connected in the areas in which they need to be
collaborating closely are probably the single most important area that needs to be nurtured. They are the
place where sector strategies are operationalized, where cross-cutting issues can best be identified and
approaches thought through, and where needs for projects that might best complement the budget/import
support operations can be examined.

(g)      Coordination among Government Ministries and Agencies is improving. For a while there was
a sense in many line ministries that MOFPED, while doing a very competent job, was an inappropriate
ministry to coordinate many of the (non-financial) issues across government. The Cabinet, based on a
proposal for improved coordination arrangements prepared in a cabinet paper, recently approved new
coordination arrangements. These will be run from the Office of the Prime Minister at the overall policy
level, although for some time MOFPED will have to be relied on for its expertise to support the work of the
new arrangements. A promising start under the new arrangements has been made during the preparation of
PRSC 4. The main test will be how the new arrangements deal with the many and complex cross-cutting
issues and the strain of sticking to the agreed timelines.

(h)      Donor Coordination. The PRSCs have helped streamline and coordinate donor support, and
increased resource flows from donors have shifted progressively into direct budget support. The main
locus for local PRSC donor activities has been the Sector Working Groups, supplemented by special
meetings arranged during PRSC missions. Improved coordination is evident in the exchanges of donor
assistance strategies and key reports, feedback to the World Bank, and continuous informal exchanges,
especially important when they involve Government representatives to reinforce the sense of partnership
and transparency. While there are disagreements among donors, the underlying atmosphere is one of
collaboration, marked by a "can do" attitude. A good deal of this improved atmosphere of collaboration
among the development partners (donors and GoU) has been summarized in the Partnership Principles (see
Annexes 1 and 2).

(i)      Aid Modalities. Overall, the direct budget support provided by the PRSC is an invaluable
approach that has done much to sharpen the focus of the Government's poverty reduction program.
However, it is also clear that providing aid to Uganda only through budget support is not the best
approach, even if it is the instrument of choice for the Government. There are always issues (typically in
capacity and institution building, but also in major infrastructure investments in areas such as electric
power and roads) that can arguably better be handled in the project mode. It is critical, however, that this
be done in the context of a sector strategy (assisted by Sector Working Groups), be transparent to all actors
(donors as well as government), that such projects be well justified, and that they be "on budget".

(j)      Implementation. However, the practical implementation has lagged somewhat. More needs to be
done to improve both the efficiency and equity of resource utilization, so that more of these resources can
reach poor communities and remote areas. Part of this improvement needs to take place at the local level,
where a combination of lack of capacity and skills, as well as corruption and local influence continues to
divert poverty funds from their prime purpose. This local capacity building is only partly a question of
training; it is also a matter of oversight and counter-balancing power. Therefore, an essential part of
improving the actual delivery of PEAP and PRSC goals involves the greater day-to-day participation of
community groups, civic organizations, and local NGOs. These groups at times feel that only lip-service is
being paid to them by Government and donors, and that they have yet to become genuine partners in the


                                                      - 92 -

policy debate. As long as they feel this way, it is unlikely that they will play the full partnership role on
which poverty reduction is dependent. Both Government and donors are therefore urged to examine the
authenticity of efforts to involve civil society, and to listen carefully and react appropriately to the
feedback received from their organizations and representatives.

(k)      Aid Dependency and Problems in Absorptive Capacity. One concern about the current increased
aid flows (from both budget and project support) is the issue of high aid dependency. Despite the benefits
of predictable budget resources, there are already clear signs of an imbalance between donor aid and the
mobilization of domestic resources. It is hard to refute the argument that aid flows of the size Uganda is
receiving, undermine incentives to increase domestic revenues. Donors insist that as long as Uganda "stays
the course", there is little danger of sudden cuts in aid flows. However, such reassurances can never be
definitive; and the Government has to weigh the dangers that such cuts or delays would present to a poverty
reduction program whose results are still fragile and cannot easily adjust to sudden loss of resources. High
aid flows are also encountering problems in absorptive capacity, as can be inferred from the increase in unit
labor costs in the non-traded goods sectors. Uganda's largely agrarian economy does not present
opportunities for a rapid replacement of aid flows with domestic resources. However, expanding the
domestic revenue base should be an objective, and improved projections should be carried out to produce a
reasonable expectation of increases in the potential for increasing domestic resource mobilization.. These
projections should be used to calibrate future patterns of donor aid, and will require agreements among
donors both in terms of levels of PRSC support, as well as an agreed envelope of project loans and grants
(within a clear set of priority criteria to prevent "the pushing of projects").

(l)      Political Issues, Conditionality, and Graduated Response. There is persistent worry that the
PRSC instrument is so large that it cannot be used credibly as pressure to make the Government stick to all
its promises with respect to the reform program (whether on the economic or governance side). The entire
program can in effect be held hostage to one important action or area that is not being attended to by the
Government to the satisfaction of some of the donors. As was argued in the text, this issue is probably
overstated. The donor approach is already graduated in a number of ways. Moreover, there is nothing
standing in the way of making the graduation more formal. One could envisage a core program that
depends on some basic relatively straight-forward actions (continued macro-stability and progress in a
number of sectoral areas). This core program would receive funding regardless of other developments over
some agreed period (e.g. the three-year period of the current MTEF). Above the core, there might be
several additional amounts of support "on offer" that would depend on actions that are increasingly more
difficult, presumably because of their more political nature.

(m)       Scope of PRSCs. The current approach to deal with the ever expanding scope of the PRSCs has
probably been right; namely keeping the focus of the PRSC on cross-cutting issues, packaging the sector
reforms (education, health, water, etc.) increasingly into "one liners" with the series of sector undertakings
being pursued and monitored through sector working groups in parallel with the PRSC, and develop
well-targeted complementary (technical assistance/capacity building) projects where needed. This has
helped control some of the growth of the Policy Matrix, although each "one liner" was underpinned by a
rather extensive list of undertakings (see Annex 3 for the case of education or PRSC 4 document for
several other sectors). However, there is a danger that the "one liner" mode may just be helping to hide the
fact that the scope of the PRSCs may have reached its limits. It may be time to consider supporting some
sectors through separate operations.

(n)      Results Orientation. During the stock-taking there were repeated calls for greater
results-orientation. There is a wide-spread sense that while there has been good progress on a number of
input fronts (overall budget under control, sector ceilings in place, teachers and health workers being hired,


                                                       - 93 -

more students in schools, etc.), the issues of better outcomes remains to be solved. Operational efficiency
is thought to be low and much remains to be done in this area, starting with a better connect between policy
actions and monitorable indicators in the PRSC matrices themselves (so-called Schedules 2 and 3 of the
PRSCs 1-3). This is much easier said than done due to the familiar problems of attribution. Nevertheless,
this has now clearly become an important issue. Money is being pumped into various agreed areas, but
more often than not it increases the quantity and/or cost of inputs, rather than resulting in better outputs
and outcomes. PRSC 4, now under preparation, has already taken on this challenge and pays considerably
more attention to results and how "success" will be measured (one of the successes clearly being a
coherent, implementable reform program). The incipient trend of weaving monitoring and evaluation into
the fabric of results orientation should continue to be strengthened in the future.

(o)      Annual vs. Multi-Year PRSCs. While the argument for multi-year PRSCs is conceptually
attractive (see paragraph. 76), the multi-year instrument implicitly assumes some level of predictability. In
the case of Uganda, unexpected events delayed presentation of each of the PRSCs to the World Bank Board
by some months. The graduated response approach combined with continued annual PRSCs may, in the
case of Uganda, still be the best way forward for some time to come.

(p)      PRSC Coordination and Management. On the Government side the OPM needs resources to
strengthen its ability to competently review and pro-actively coordinate the reform program, and especially
the parts of the program that need substantial collaboration among various ministries and agencies. On the
World Bank side it is time to locate the Task Manager of the PRSC in the field, supported by a small
locally-based Core Team. There are simply too many day-to-day issues that need attention, for the PRSCs
to be managed from Washington DC.

References

Appleton, S. (2001), "Poverty in Uganda, 1999/2000: Preliminary estimates from the UNHS", U. of
Nottingham, mimeo, January 2001

Bulir, A. and J. Hamman (2003), "Aid Volatility: An Empirical Assessment", IMF Staff Papers, vol.50,
No.1.

Fox, M. Louise (2004), "Poverty in Uganda: Key Findings and Issues",note, May, 2004

Hauge, A. O. (2003), The Development of Monitoring and Evaluation Capacities to Improve Government
Performance in Uganda, World Bank, Operations Evaluation Department, ECD Working Paper Series No.
10, October 2003

Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (2003a), Uganda's Progress in Attaining PEAP
Targets - in the Context of Millennium Development Goals, Background Paper for the Consultative Group
Meeting, May 14-16, 2003, Kampala

Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (2003b), Uganda Poverty Status Report, 2003:
Achievements and Pointers for the PEAP Revision, July, Kampala.

Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (2003c), Guidelines for the Budget Process for
Financial Years 2004/05 to 2006/07, Kampala

Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (2003d), "Information Paper on Changes in


                                                      - 94 -

Poverty in Uganda, 1999/00  2002/03", October 2003, Kampala.

Ministry of Health (2001), Annual Health Sector Performance Report  Financial Year 2000/01, Kampala

Mpuga, P and S. Canagarajah (2004), "Are Government Budgets Becoming pro-Poor: An Analysis of
Social Services Delivery Trends in Uganda, World Bank , Kampala, draft

Murphy, P. (2003), "Education, Educators and Financing Modalities: Reflections on Experience in
Uganda", Papers Presented to the Third International Conference on Education and Development, Oxford,
Confederation of British Teachers, London.

Nyamugasira, W. and R. Rowden, "New Strategies, Old Loan Conditions" The Case of Uganda, with the
assistance of Action Aid (Uganda and USA), April 2002

Okidi, J. and S. Ssewanyana (2003), "Income Poverty in Uganda, 1992-2003", Economic Policy Research
Centre, Kampala.

Office of the Prime Minister (2003), Framework for Coordination and Monitoring of Policy and
Programme Implementation in Government, presentation to the National Stakeholder Consultative
Conference on the PEAP Revision and Budget Framework, by M. Odwedo, PS, OPM, 30 October 2003,
Kampala

Oxford Policy Management and Overseas Development Institute, "General Budget Support Evaluability
Study: Phase One", Report to UK Department for International Development (DFID), 30 December 2002

Reinikka, R., Svensson, J., and Lindelow, M. (2002). "Health Care on the Frontline: Survey Evidence on
Public and Private Providers in Uganda", mimeo, World Bank, Development Research Group, Washington
D.C.

Townsend, R. (2003), "Uganda: Environmental, Rural and Social Development", White Paper for the
forthcoming Country Assistance Strategy for Uganda, World Bank.

Williamson, T. and Canagarajah, S (2003). "Is There a Place for Virtual Poverty Funds in Pro-Poor Public
Spending Reform? Lesson from Uganda's PAF", Development Policy Review, ODI, vol. 21, No. 4, pp.
449-480.

World Bank (2000), Uganda Country Assistance Strategy FY 2001-2003

World Bank (2001), First Poverty Reduction Support Credit, Report No.7442-UG

World Bank (2002a), Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit, Program Document, Report No.
24400-UG

World Bank (2002b), Uganda Public Expenditure Review: Report on the Progress and Challenges of
Budget Reforms, Report No. 24882-UG, Sept. 23, 2002.

World Bank (2003a), Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation, Program Document,
Report No. 26078-UG, July 28, 2003.




                                                  - 95 -

World Bank (2003b), Republic of Uganda: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Annual Progress Report and
Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment, Report No. 26567-UG, August

World Bank (2003c), Uganda Public Expenditure Review 2003: Supporting Budget Reforms at the Central
and Local Government Levels, Report No. 27135, September.

World Bank (2004a), White Paper on Education for the forthcoming World Bank CAS

World Bank (2004b), "Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit". Draft June 7, 2004

World Bank (2004c), Implementation Completion Report on the Third Poverty Reduction Support
Operation, Report No, 28838, June 2004.




                                               - 96 -

Annex 1 Partnership Principles between GoU and its Development Partners

SEPTEMBER 2003


MINISTRY OF FINANCE, PLANNING AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT


Section One: General Principles

1.       The Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) identifies the development objectives for Government
and its development partners. Effectively linking donor support with the PEAP is the main rationale for
setting out these Partnership Principles. These principles apply to public assistance.

2.       The delivery of financial assistance (aid) by development partners must be fully compatible with
the national budget process and with Government ownership of the budget.

3.       Government will ensure transparency in the budget process by remaining committed to including
all stakeholders in its preparation and in monitoring budget execution. The budget process will work
through dialogue with all stakeholders.

4.       Development partners will participate in the process of formulating Government budgets.
However, donor views on the budget should be expressed collectively at the appropriate fora in the budget
process (budget workshops, sector meetings, Public Expenditure Reviews, etc). Individual donors should
not attempt to influence budget allocations outside these fora or by using their own aid as a lever.

5.       Major changes in the budget will only be taken after prior consultation with all partners, as
predictability is the key for development partners when deciding on their preferred modalities of support to
Uganda. Similarly, development partners will communicate promptly to the Government any significant
changes in the level of their support to the budget.

Section Two: Government's Preferred Modalities of Support from Development Partners

6.       The modalities of donor support are important because different aid modalities are not equally
compatible with efficient budget planning and management and national ownership of the budget.

7.       The Government's ranking of donor support modalities, in descending order of preference, is as
follows: In the case of the World Bank, general budget support, budget support earmarked to the PAF and
sector budget support are referred to as balance of payments support.

         1.       General budget support
         2.       Budget support earmarked to the Poverty Action Fund
         3.       Sector budget support
         4.       Project aid

8.       Government's preferred modality is general budget support, because this provides the Government
with the greatest flexibility with which to deliver public services efficiently and to implement the PEAP.
General budget support is also fully compatible with the Government's budget and accounting procedures.
9.       Government recognizes that some development partners do not provide general budget support. In


                                                     - 97 -

such cases Government's preferred option is budget support to the Poverty Action Fund (PAF). Budget
support to the PAF directly supports the PEAP through expenditures covered by the PAF. Government is
committed to increasing PAF expenditures as a share of the overall discretionary GOU budget, and to
protect PAF expenditures from cuts arising from resource shortfalls or supplementary expenditure demands
from other sectors.

10.      Sector budget support is acceptable to Government if it meets the following conditions:
         (i)     Sector Wide Approaches (SWAps) and sector development plans are in place in the
                 sector being supported, and;
         (ii)    the support is mutually agreed upon by the line ministry, MFPED and the donor through
                 the yearly consultative budget process.

11.      Government cannot guarantee that sector budget support will increase the relevant sector's
expenditure ceiling above what would have been otherwise provided in the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF). The level of any sector's expenditure ceiling cannot be determined by the amount of
sector budget support promised to that sector. Government must control aggregate spending by the
Government, and if one sector ceiling is increased owing to the receipt of sector budget support this will
inevitably mean that cuts must be made to the spending ceilings of other sectors. This in turn can lead to a
sectoral composition of expenditure which is not optimal from the Government's point of view, nor indeed
from the point of view of the majority of donors.

12.      Sector budget support is best provided "notionally", allowing the development partners influence
through the Sector Working Group over issues pertinent to the sector, but the donor should not attach any
"additionality" conditionalities, because this would violate the principles set out in paras 9 and 21.

13.      Sector budget support should be provided straight into the Consolidated Fund thereby considerably
simplifying budget execution, accounting and reporting procedures.

14.      Project aid or technical assistance can provide benefits such as the transfer of skills and capacity
development. Additionally it can be an important source of support to meet critical humanitarian needs. To
maximise the benefits of this support, development partners will ensure that their support is integrated
within the sector wide approaches where these exist and will work with the MFPED to ensure that their
support is integrated into the MTEF.

Section Three: Undertakings by Government of Uganda

15.      The Government recognizes that the development partners willingness to give budget support
depends on their confidence in the transparency, predictability and efficiency of Government budget
processes and in the public servants in charge of these processes. To this end, the Government will:
        Consult with stakeholders annually on strategic allocations in the budget and implement the budget
         in a manner consistent with the agreed allocations.
        Consult in advance with the donor partners on major envisaged changes to budget allocations
         during the financial year.
        Ensure transparency and efficiency in public budgeting and spending with the aim of fulfilling
         PEAP and PRSC targets.
        Improve the quality of financial management systems at both central and local government levels.
        Strengthen the audit function by enhancing the role, capacity and independence of the Office of the
         Auditor General.
        Improve procurement processes both at the central and local government levels to ensure better



                                                    - 98 -

        value for money.
       Implement the public service reform, including pay reform which is consistent with improving
        delivery of public services.

16.     Corruption presents a tax on the effectiveness of public services. Government will, therefore,
aggressively fight corruption. To this end Government will:
       Strengthen the key anti-corruption institutions such as the IGG and the Directorate of Ethics and
        Integrity.
       Encourage the participation of civil society and the private sector in fighting corruption, especially
        by increasing public access to Government information.
       Enhance the legal framework for fighting corruption.
       Prosecute perpetrators and strengthen efforts to recover embezzled funds.

17.     The Government is determined to reduce its dependence on donor aid over time. Accordingly, it is
committed to increase domestic revenue mobilization through systematic enforcement of tax legislation,
improved tax administration and collection, new revenue measures as appropriate, and expenditure
restraint.

18.     The Government recognizes the importance of a strong civil society and private sector institutions.
The Government will enhance the role of these institutions in policy making and monitoring and evaluation.


Section Four: Reflecting Development Assistance in the Budget

19.     All development assistance to Central Government should be included in the budget estimates and
MTEF.

20.     Data on development assistance for each fiscal year should be provided to the Ministry of Finance
by October of the preceding fiscal year. As far as is possible, development partners should provide three
year rolling projections of all budget and project support.

21.     Development partners should also assist the Ministry of Finance to compile accurate and timely
budget outturn data by reporting to the Ministry of Finance the disbursements to each project that they are
funding on a quarterly basis.

22.     Sectors will have to budget within an overall ceiling set by the Government which will include all
donor projects. This will be a hard budget ceiling, implying that an increased level of project support
expenditures will have to be matched by lower GOU budget expenditures.

Section Five: Global Funds

23.     Any financial assistance received from Global Funds will be utilised as sector budget support or
project aid and integrated into the budget in line with the principles set out in sections one, two, four, and
six.

Section Six: Working More Effectively at the Sector Level

24.     Partners should seek to work in fewer sectors and focus their expertise in sectors where they have a
comparative advantage.




                                                     - 99 -

25.      The composition of the Sector Working Group (SWG) should include all relevant Government
stakeholders, especially as service delivery becomes increasingly decentralised (e.g. Ministry of Local
Government plus the relevant sector ministry). Other stakeholders (e.g. civil society and non-Government
providers of services) should also be included. All donor partners, whatever the modality of their
assistance, should also be represented (possibly as a silent partner) in a single SWG that focuses on policy,
strategy, prioritising expenditures, monitoring and evaluation, and service delivery.

26.      Development partners participating in the SWG should endeavor to communicate with Government
through a `lead donor' and with a common voice.

27.      Government reporting mechanisms should be strengthened so that they can be adopted by
development partners. As this is accomplished, development partners should seek to utilise the Government
reporting systems and not demand separate reporting mechanisms for their own funds. All stakeholders
should adopt a common set of outcome indicators for monitoring progress at the sector level.
28.      Joint financing committees should only address administrative issues related to the basket. All
resources provided by development partners must be reflected in the Government budget. Joint financing
reviews, although necessary for accountability, should become a smaller component of a larger review.

29.      Sector expenditure ceilings must be determined by the Government through the budget process,
independently of any sector financing and in particular, independently of any "additional" sector funding
made available or promised by development partners.

30.      The SWG should identify, cost and rank sector spending priorities. Only the highest ranking
spending priorities, which have been clearly identified in sector investment/expenditure plans, should be
undertaken, either through the GOU budget or as donor funded projects. Development partners should not
attempt to influence Line Ministries to undertake expenditures which have not been identified as priorities
by the SWG, using their own sector support or project aid as a lever.

31.      A calendar of key annual processes (Annex 2) should guide the work of sectors to ensure
appropriate linkages to PER/MTEF, PEAP and the poverty monitoring and evaluation strategy (PMES).
32.      Sector Working Groups will become fully engaged in Public Expenditure Review and budget work.
They will establish mechanisms to link budget inputs to service delivery through the PER and Poverty
Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy (PMES). The SWGs activities will also be linked to other processes
which impact on service delivery, such as decentralisation and the Local Government Reform Programme.

Section Seven: Joint Sector Reviews/Missions

33.      Joint missions are preferable to bilateral consultations. The timing and format of reviews must
complement key processes such as the budget exercise, PER and PRSC Review, and will be open to all
stakeholders.

34.      A sector review should provide the single opportunity for all development partners to
comprehensively review policy, strategy, performance and capacity needs.

35.      A lead donor approach can reduce the transaction costs of both development partners and the
Government.

36.      Joint reviews must be open to all stakeholders. This should be reflected in the Terms of Reference
for the joint review.


                                                     - 100 -

       37.     The outcomes of sector reviews should feed into the overall PRSC review.

       38.     The sharing of bilateral reports can preclude repetitive missions. Sector working groups and the
       annual review should establish a common agenda of analytical work.


       Section Eight: Consultative Group Meeting (CG)

       39.     The CG should be linked to the PEAP and NEPAD processes. CGs will involve both formal and
       informal sessions.

       40.     The role of the formal CG is to review progress in major areas (e.g. PEAP and broader reforms)
       and to map a way forward.

       41.     Civil society should be invited to attend the formal session as observers.

       42.     The role of the informal CG is to discuss sectoral/thematic concerns and address all issues likely to
       be raised in formal session. The informal session will precede the formal session. The main civil society /
       private sector input is in the informal session.

       Annex 2. Calendar of Major Processes and Missions


             January         Februar March           April      May          June        July        August        September Octob
                             y
Budget/MT Inter-minister MTEF            Budget                                          Budget      BFPs
EF           ial meetings    Preparati                                                   Workshop preparation
                             on                                                          And
                                                                                         guidelines
PER          Background/ PER                                    Consultatio 1. ToRs for Backgroun
             Sector          Review                             n on scope background d/Sector
             Studies                                            of work      studies     Studies
                                                                             2. External
                                                                             resource
                                                                             mobilisatio
                                                                             n for
                                                                             budget
                                                                             guidelines
PRS and                                                                                              PMAU
Poverty                                                                                              Review
Monitoring
PRSC         Appraisal                                          Mission                                                        Pre-ap
                                                                                                                               al
Consultative                                                                             Agreement Preparation
Group                                                                                    on themes of
                                                                                                     background
                                                                                                     papers
Joint Sector                                         Education,                                                    Water Joint Educa



                                                          - 101 -

Reviews                                             health and                                                    Reviews & Hea
                                                    water joint                                                           Joint
                                                    reviews                                                               Review




      Annex 3 Education Sector Undertakings

      EDUCATION SECTOR UNDERTAKINGS

      1.       The Government has satisfactorily implemented the following undertakings agreed in the education
      sector review of April 2002 and confirmed by the October 2002 review:


      2.       Financial commitment: Budget and releases in line with the Government of Uganda guidelines
      maintaining a minimum of 31 percent of recurrent discretionary expenditure for education. At least 65
      percent of the total education sector budget is allocated to primary education.

      3.       Public Expenditure Management:

      (a)      A Progress report on the implementation of the Financial Management Strengthening Component
               of the Second Economic and Financial Management Project and Financial Accountability Project
               (April 2003).
      (b)      A tracking study on teachers' recruitment, deployment and payroll management, carried out by the
               October 2002 Education Sector Review.
      (c)      Preparations for a tracking study in an area of mutual concern (now agreed to be on value for
               money on the school facilities grant).

      4.       Quality Enhancement:

      (a)      Pupil-teacher ratio calculated nationally and by district: 54:1
      (d)      Pupil-core textbook ratio calculated nationally and by district: --
      (e)      Pupil-classroom ratio calculated nationally and by district: 92:1 (The lower ratio was as a result of
               redefinition of classrooms to only include permanent classrooms. The review agreed that the target
               had been achieved).

      5.       Outcome (equitable quality):

      (a)      Share of appropriate age range of girls and boys in P7 nationally and by district monitored.
      (b)      The learning achievements of primary school pupils as assessed by National Assessment of
               Progress in Education (NAPE), Southern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Education Quality
               (SACMEQ) and Monitoring Learning Achievement (MLA) in their reports (for April 2003).
      (c)      Net enrollment ratios, particularly for the most disadvantaged districts monitored.
      (d)      Primary completion rates monitored.
      6.       Equitable access: A draft costed framework for basic education for disadvantaged children feeds
      into the October 2002 education sector review and the 2003/04 planning and budgeting cycle commencing
      in October 2002.

      7.       Teacher recruitment: Mechanisms for monitoring the share of filled positions strengthened and



                                                           - 102 -

the action plan for increasing the number of teachers on the payroll with particular attention to the ten
districts with the largest establishment gaps implemented including:

(a)      Reworking the establishment formula and aligning this to the national annual target for
         pupil-teacher ratio by 31 May 2002;
(b)      Harmonization of staff establishment ceilings for all districts by 31 July 2002;
(c)      Reappraising target districts in the light of harmonized establishment ceilings by 31 August, 2002;
(d)      Revising action plan for focus on new target districts and implementing from early September
         2002;
(e)      Proposing future targets for teacher recruitment to the October 2002 education sector review;
(f)      Presenting a report on progress to the October 2002 education sector review.

8.       Monitoring and evaluation: 2002 Education Management Information System data, in which a
registry of private schools has been incorporated, collected, entered, analyzed, verified and resulting
statistics reported on at the October 2002 education sector review. The School Census 2002 will capture
an increasing proportion of secondary schools and post춑rimary education and training institutions.
Information on complementary primary education centers will be collected and included in the Education
Statistical Abstract.

9.       Post-Primary Education and Training: A draft policy and costed framework for expansion of
post-primary education and training which has been discussed with a range of stakeholders be presented to
the October 2002 review for its comments, endorsement and future development.

Annex 4 Principles for Determining Prior Actions

Principles for Prior Actions in the Uganda Poverty Reduction Strategy Support Credit (PRSC)
Programs. The following principles have been developed during PRSC4 to guide the development of prior
actions for the PRSC programs:

1.       About the Principles
These principles concern the establishment of Prior Actions (conditions) for disbursement of the World
Bank-supported PRSCs in Uganda. The principles are intended to be complementary and subordinate to the
agreed "Partnership Principles between Government of Uganda and its Development Partners", Kampala
September 2003.

2.       The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC)
a.       The PRSC is a core operation to implement the objectives of Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action
         Plan/Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PEAP/PRSP), and the Bank Group's Country Assistance
         Strategy (CAS).
b.       The PRSCs are sequential annual credits, and each PRSC is seen as an annual step in a three-year
         medium-term reform program.
3.       Prior Actions
a.       Each PRSC is based on a set of conditions ("prior actions") that the government fulfills before the
         grant/credit is presented to the World Bank Board. These prior actions are based on shared
         expectations between Government of Uganda (GoU), the World Bank (WB), and other
         development partners.
b.       Prior actions should be based upon policy dialogue, and aligned with Uganda's Poverty
         Eradication Action Plan and country assistance priorities. Prior actions should normally
         correspond to all the major reform areas (pillars) of the Poverty Eradication Action Program. The


                                                      - 103 -

       starting point for discussion is the set of prior actions of the preceding PRSC.
c.     The flexibility inherent in the PRSC comes not from defining vague or easily-met prior actions, but
       from agreeing on specific and monitorable milestones and then measuring progress against them,
       with reasoned judgments allowing for disciplined adaptation.
d.     Agreement on prior actions is reached between GoU, the Bank, and other development partners
       shortly after pre-appraisal and before appraisal. Prior actions are at this stage considered binding,
       but are in exceptional circumstances adaptable in the face of uncertainties inside and outside of the
       program.
e.     Completion of the prior actions is a condition for proceeding to the World Bank Board for
       approval of the grant/credit.
f.     When prior actions are not met by negotiations, there are three alternatives: (i) reduce support; (ii)
       delay program; and (iii) release Credit in tranches.

4. Anticipated Prior Actions

a.     Each PRSC also includes a notional set of tentative prior actions that are presented in the program
       documentation. The tentative prior actions are not binding for the next PRSC.
b.     As one PRSC becomes effective, and the preparation of the next commences, the tentative actions
       identified under the first help shape and form the basis for preparation and agreement of prior
       actions under the next. It is important for the reform program to have a predictable and sustained
       approach.
c.     The anticipated prior actions should normally be discussed, and agreement on broad areas to be
       covered should be reached at the pre-appraisal of the preceding PRSC.
d.     Exact area and precise wording of the anticipated prior actions should be agreed during appraisal
       and negotiations of the preceding PRSC.
e.     Where tentative prior actions may have to be revised, the fault may lie in a poor choice of tentative
       actions, unexpectedly weak execution of elements of the reform program, faster than expected
       implementation of elements of the reform program, or changing circumstances outside the reform
       program.




                                                    - 104 -

                                                                       UGANDA

                                                                          PRIMARY ROADS

                                                                          SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UGANDA
                                                                          RAILROADS

                                                                          SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES

                                                                          DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                          REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                                     0                      50                     100                        150                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                        on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                        judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                    KILOMETERS                                                                                          acceptance of such boundaries.




                                     30                                                                                                     32                                                                                                             34



                                                                                                                                 S       U        D                A     N
           4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4


                                                                                                 R.                                                                                                Aringa

                                                                                             Koia
                                                                                    To                                              Moyo            To
                                                                                    Yei                                                           Juba                                                   R.
                                                                                                   YUMBE                       MOYO                                                                          Madi Opei
                                                                                                                                Laropi                      Achwa                                KITGUM                                                                       Kaabong
                                                                                          Koboko         Yumbe                 R.                     Oytino                                   Padibe            Naam
                                                                                                 Lodonga                                                            R.                                           Okora                                                        Loyoro
                                                                                                                               Adjumani                                                                     Kitgum
                                                                               Maracha    Omugo                         Nile                                                                                                                                      R.
                                                                                                 Anyou                                                                               Kitgum                 Matidi
                                                                                                             R.               ADJUMANI
                                                                                                                                                Atiak         R.                                                                               KOTIDO                    R.
                                                                                                ARUA                                                                           Pager R.

                                                                                             Terego                                                                                                                                        Kapeta
                                                                                                                     t
                                                                                         Arua                                                                                    Atanga                                                                            Dopeth
                                                                                                                Alber                                                                                                                                                         Kotido
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R.
                                                                                                                 Rhino                           GULU
                       D E M O C R AT I C                                                         Inde                                                                N O R T HPajuleE R N
                                                                                                                 Camp                            Kilak                                                Agogo R.                                                                             Ngololapolon
                                                                       To Aba                 Uleppi                                                        Gulu                                               Pader   Patongo
                                                                                                                                                                                                        PADER                 Adilang
                             R E P U B L I C                                              Ora      OkolloR.                                           Barabili
                                                                                       War                           Aswa     R.                                                                   Puranga                                                                                  MOROTO
                                                                                                         NEBBI
                          O F C O N G O                                                         Nebbi                                                                                                                                                                                               Kangole    Moroto
                                                                                Zeu                       Pakwach
                                                                                         Goli                                                                                                                                R.                              R.                   R.

                                                                                               Parombo                                     Nile
                                                                                                             Panyimur                                                        R.                                      Achwa                                                                         Omanimani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Okok
                                                                                                                  Paraa          Victoria          R.                                              Lira          Aloi                                                 Lochoman
                                                                                                                                 Murchison                              Tochi                                                                                                                                     R.
                                                                                                                                                Karuma
                                                                                                                  Bulisa             Falls
                                                                                                                                                 Falls                       APAC                         LIRA
                                                                                                                                                                                               R.                                    Amuria                R.

           2                                                                                                                                                                   Apac  Aroca                          Orungo                                                                 Nabilatuk                   2
                                                                                                                              MASINDI                                                                          Otuboi               KATAKWI                                                                      Amudat
                                                                                                                                    Kiryandongo                        Ibuje     Lake     Nabyeso                                          Wera
                                                                                                                                                                                Kwania                                                                       Katakwi                               NAKAPIRIPIRIT
                                                                                                  Butiaba                                                                                                                                          Akokoroi
                                                                                                                  Biso                                                                                                  Kalaki                Lake
                                                                                                t                      Masindi                     Masindi Port         Akokoro                                 Kaberamaido          SorotiSalisbury                        MagoroLake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Opeta                   Siti
                                                                                        Alber                 Kitoba                                Nakitoma                                                KABERAMAIDO SOROTI                                                                                R.
                                                                                                                                                                   NAKASONGOLANamasale            Muntu                       Serere                     Kumi                     SIRONKO
                                                                                                   Hoima                                                                                 Lake Kyoga
                                                                              Lake                                                               Nabiswera                                                                             Ngora KUMI                                                      Kapchorwa
                                                                                           HOIMA                              Kafu                                                    Kidera
                                                                                                                                  R.                 Nakasongola                                                                                                           Bukedea          KAPCHORWA
                                                                     Buhuka                                                                                                                                           Kagulu
                                                                                                                  Mpongo                                                                                     Ndolwa                         Kachumbala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lake      Pallisa         Kakoro                                    Sironko
                                                                              Nkusi    R.                                                                                                                   Bugaya Nakuwa        Namwiwa
                                                                                           Kitoma                 R.       KIBOGA                                                                      KAMULI                            PALLISANaboa                           Mbale
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kamuli                            Budaka                                 MBALE
                                                                                      KIBALE             Nkoko                                                                             KAYUN                     E A S T EMazimasaN        R                             Busiu       Mayenze
                                                                                                                        Ntwetwe       Kiboga              Mayanja
                                                                                                                                                               LUWERO                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kaliro                  Busolwe                                          R.
                                                                                                Kibale                  Kitumbi                                                Luwero            A             Naigobia                      TORORO                            Molo Butiru
                                           BUNDIBUGYO                                                         Kakumiro
                          Bundibugyo                                                                                              R.                                                           Kayunga               IGANGA          Busembatia
                                                     Fort Portal Butiti               Muzizi                                       C E N T R A LWobulenzi                                                                                       Nagongera
                                                                         Kyenjojo                                      MaduduBukuya                              R.                                                                                               Tororo                       Lwakhaka
                                             KABAROLE                                        R.                  Mubende         Kasanda  Kalangalo          BusunjuBombo                      Bujagali     Nile
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JINJA            Iganga      Bugiri
                                               Kisomoro             KYENJOJO              Kakabara                                                                             Namulonge          Falls
                                                                                                                     MUBENDE                                                                                    R.                                                             To Bungoma
                                                                                                                                                                    WAKISO            MUKONO                                Mayuge   BUGIRI Busia
                                                                                                                         R.        Myanzi                          Wakiso
                                        W E S T E ER N                                                                                                                                   Mukono                    Jinja  MAYUGE
                                                                                                          Nabakazi                                                                                                                      Majanji              BUSIA
                                   Kasese                     Mpanga
                                                                EN G R.                                                                      Kabasanda
                                                                          Katonga R.                                                                                              Kampala
                                                                                                                                   Kanoni  Kiriri     Mpigi                                                                                                                      K E N Y A
                To             KASESE                        Kamwenge                                                                                            Kamengo
               Beni        Mpondwe                                                                   Ntusi                                MPIGI                              Entebbe
            0                                         KAMW               Rusangwe              SEMBABULE
                           KatojoKabatoro            Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                   Sembabule            Kyogya                    Nabusanke
                                                    George      Ibanda
                                          Katunguru                                  Kiruhura    Mutoke    R.

                                                                                  R.                                          MASAKA
                                             Rubirizi                                                         Kitembo
                                                                                                                                                                   Kalangala
             Lake                                                   MBARARA                         Kokinga                         Masaka
           Edward                  BUSHENYI           R.
                                                                                                          R. Makando
                                                 Bushenyi                                           Kaku
                             Bwambara
                            RUKUNGIRI                                     Mbarara                            Lake
                                                              Ruizi                                                                                               KALANGALA
                                                                          R.                          Kijanebalola
                    KANUNGU              Ntungu                                     Gayaza       Nabubare         Rakai
              To                     Rukungiri
           Rutshuru                                                                                                                                                          L a k e               V i c t o r i a
                                                                                      Lake                   RAKAI
                                         Ntungamo                                   Nakivali
                           Kanungu                                                                        Magabbi

                                                 Kakitumba   Kikagati


             To   KISORO        KABALE
          Rutshuru      Kisoro         Kabale

MARCH                                                                                                                                                    T A N Z A N I A                                                                                                                                                   IBRD
                To Ruhengeri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31802
     2002             R W A N D A
                                     30                                                                                                     32                                                                                                             34

