A euiC
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/10/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
L.A 1. Project Statistics
Country: UGANDA                                        Project ID: P074081
Project. Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit        Task Team Leader: Satu Kristina Kahkonen
Authorized to Appraise Date: June 23, 2003             IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: September 4, 2003                       IDA Amount ($m): 150.00
Managing Unit: AFTP2                                   Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Poverty Reduction Support Credit   sector (20%); General public administration sector
(PRC)                                                  (20%); General water, sanitation and flood
Status: Lending                                        protection sector (20%); Health (20%); General
education sector (20%)
Theme: Other environment and natural resources
management (P); Other financial and private sector
development (P); Other rural development (P);
Other human development (P); Other public sector
governance (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
Like PRSCI and PRSC2, PRSC3 will support the implementation of Uganda's poverty reduction strategy as
summarized in the PRSP. The specific objective of PRSC3 is to improve public service delivery, given that poor
public service performance is one of the key constraints to economic development and poverty reduction. In
particular, PRSC3 will continue supporting the reform program adopted under PRSCI and PRSC2, and further
refine and expand it.
I.A.3 Project Description (From PDS).
The reform program will support efforts to improve efficiency of public expenditures and public sector management
with the aim to improve access to and quality of education, health, and water and sanitation services The program
will also support efforts to promote an enabling environment for rural development, including steps to improve the
effectiveness of agricultural research and advisory services, and the promotion of rural finance, district and
community roads, and sustainable resource management, with the aim to raise the income of the poor
PRSC3 will support activities in the following areas:
I Public expenditure management financial sector strengthening, and monitoring and evaluation. (i) align
expenditure with PRSP priorities, (n) include donor-financed projects and link staffing plan with the wage bill in the
medium-term expenditure framework; (in) reduce deviations from the budget, (iv) streamline inter-governmental
fiscal transfers; (v) enhance results-orientation of sector expenditure programs; (vi) streamline and strengthen
monitoring and evaluation arrangements; (v) strengthen financial sector performance.
2 Cross-cutting public sector reforms (i) public service management (public sector pay reform, improve payroll
management, control expansion of public administration, launch a public service reform); (n) public procurement
(update the legal and regulatory framework, reform procurement arrangements, strengthen enforcement of
procurement rules and regulations, improve efficiency of National Medical Stores), (ii) financial management
(update the legal and regulatory framework, improve accounting and reporting, strengthen audit structures and
practices, implement regular expenditure tracking surveys); (iv) transparency (improve access to public information),
(v) civil society participation (develop NGO policy and code of conduct), (vi) detection, investigation and
prosecution of corruption, (vii) legal and judicial reform (implement commercial justice reforms to enhance
enforcement of commercial contracts).



2
'SOS
3 Promoting enabling environnent for rural developmcnt. (i) research and technology (improve responsiveness and
impact of publicly funded agricultural research), (n) agricultural advisory services (increase access and effectiveness
of agricultural advisory services); (iii) rural finance (develop legal and regulatory framework for microfinance), (Iv)
land (implement the 1998 Land Act in a prioritized manner, promote access to land by women and
children/orphans), (v) environment (integrate environmental sustainability concerns in government programs); (vi)
agro-processing and marketing (reduce constraints to agro-processing and marketing).
4 Improve quality of education: (i) primary education (reduce pupil-teacher ratio, pupil-textbook ratio,
pupil-classroom ratio), (it) post-primary education (develop and implement a strategy for the expansion of
post-primary education)
5. Improving health care: (i) health care financing (rationalize health care financing); (ni) drug procurement and
management (strengthen procurement and management of drugs and medical supplies); (ni) human resources
(increase human resources for health); (iv) health infrastructure (improve health infrastructure).
6. Increase access to and reliability, affordability, and sustainability of water supply and sanitation (WSS) services.
(i) rural WSS (strengthen decentralized planning, preparation, implementation, and management, improve central
government's capacity to provide technical assistance to districts; utilize the local private sector for WSS delivery;
develop a strategy for national hygiene promotion, sanitation, and communication); (ii) small towns WSS (introduce
a new management framework), (iii) urban WSS (introduce commercial operations, improve financial sustainability).
In each of the sectors included in the PRSC, sector plans are prepared by sector working groups which include
government officials, donors, NGOs, and private sector representatives.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, informnation about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
PRSC3 will be coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED), and
implemented by central and line ministries, districts, small towns, and communities across the country.
B. Check Environnmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments. The proposed PRSC3 builds upon the sector work in PRSC I and PRSC 2 and continues to focus on
several sectors and therefore adheres to the safeguard requirement set forth in OP 4 01 as recommended by the Bank's
PRSC safeguard working group The Credit has been classified as Category B and will continue to build on PRSCI and
PRSC2 environmental analysis conducted for hcalth, water and sanitation, and rural development Two areas are of
safeguard concern pesticide management and land tenure The safeguard measures will cnsure that potential adverse
impacts will be screened and provisions are in place to mitigate impacts, if any The environmental analysis will be
incorporated as an annex to the PRSC3 Program Document, and the annex will be disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop and
in Uganda.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on W for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                     Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             O Yes (9 No     U  TBD
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     Ui Yes *   No   U  TBD
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      (  Yes *   No   (9 TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        O Yes C) No     U  TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    U  Yes *   No   (_) TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     U  Yes *   No   U  TBD



3
ISDS
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            (9 Yes 0 No      () TBD
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                U   Yes  * No   (U TBD
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     (9 Yes   * No    (9 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          U) Yes   * No    U  TBD
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summiary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The potential adverse environmental and social effects associated with PRSC3 are mainly related to (i) medical
waste handling and disposal, (ii) district road maintenance, (111) borehole drilling (depending on location), (iv) design
and construction of WSS facilities, and(v) handling and use of agncultural inputs, in particular, pesticides, and (vi)
potential land tenure processes that may result in individuals having to relocate. Overall, the biophysical and social
impacts of these impacts are expected to be modest.
H.D. Ib. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None
II.D.1c Descnbe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of altematives (if required)
Not applicable
1I.D.3 Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Safeguard issues are addressed through the sectoral strategy building, supported by ongoing IDA-funded investment
projects in various sectors (such as roads, agricultural research and technology, agricultural extension) Priority
setting has been increasingly devolved to district and sub-county governments, and the central government is
providing technical assistance to districts for this effort. Bringing environmental and social safeguards into policy
making is included in capacity-building initiatives supported by IDA and other donors Also, the PRSC3 reform
program is supporting efforts to integrate sustainability concerns in government programs
PRSC3 is a follow-up to PRSCI and PRSC 2 under which the borrower has adopted measures to control and
mitigate any adverse environmental effects that could result from thc implementation of the activities described
above An environmental monitoring plan has been put in place, and environmental and social safeguard indicators
have been included in the PRSC monitoring plan In PRSC3, further monitoring indicators was developed for the
new sectors to be covered under the operation
Rural Development- Agriculture Measures to mitigate impacts of pesticide use will be taken through the ongoing
National Agriculture Advisory Services Project (NAADS) that was approved in January 2001 and responsible for
environmental monitoring and evaluation. The project aims to transform the existing publicly delivered extension
service to a decentralized, largely farmer-owned and private sector advisory service. Although agro-chemical use is
relatively low in Uganda, NAADS will facilitate intensification of smallholder agricultural production systems,
potentially increasing the use of fertilizers and other agrochemicals. As a category B project, its Environmental
Assessment was prepared in July 2000, and in September 2000 a Pest Management Plan, that ensures sustainable
pest management activities, minimizing health and environmental pesticide risks and strengthened capacity for
integrated pest management and pesticide regulatory control Mitigation practices identified in the NAADS EA arc



4
ISDS
described in the detailed EA annex of the PRSC Project Document.
Rural Development - Land Tenure: The Land Act passed in 1998 provides for regularizing land tenure under
mailo, freehold and customary tenure regimes. The Land Sector Strategic Plan prioritizes interventions and forms the
basis for developing a National Land Policy, strengthening capacity for land administration, and implementing three
pilots for land consolidation and land readjustment in Soroti, Masaka, and Ntungamo  The pilots provide an
opportunity for any land tenant/occupant to go through a formalized process of having land "certified" and then if
desired "titled". In general, a land owner can come to agreement on a settlement where the occupants can purchase
the land, with money coming from the Land Fund No resettlement Is expected in pilot areas since occupants and
tenants are getting certificates through the demarcation and adjudication process Presumably, if occupants have in
recent time settled on land and they cannot provide evidence of long occupancy, they do not quality for a certificate.
The Prime Minister's Office will continue the development of national standards for involuntary resettlement. Like
the Bank, the Government is committed to ensuring that processes of involuntary land acquisition leave those
affected no worse off than they would otherwise have been. The Bank will continue to explore options to support the
intended updating of the background and policy work carried out in 1995.
The Land Commission in other parts of the country is sorting out land occupancy between several ethnic/tribal
groups, and the Land Fund is being used to provide payments for demarcation and settlement of tenants and
occupants. No resettlement is expected in the coming year, but some may take place at a later point since some
people, if inappropriately occupying the land, may be asked to leave after adjudication  If there is any action
regarding resettlement of persons associated with the Land Fund or LSSP, the Bank will review with the Government
this process and when appropriate, a Resettlement Action Plan or Framework will be developed
Environment Assessment - Uganda has adopted environmental impact assessment (EIA) regulations in 1998, and
the National Environmental Management Agency (NEMA) has developed environmental impact assessment
guidelines that cover the actual identification of biophysical and social effects, public hearing, code of conduct of
EIA practitioners, environmental inspectors, and environmental easement. It has also started to establish EIA units in
line ministries. Under PRSC3, the Government intends to continue developing environmental guidelines across the
range of public programs, in order to mainstream environmental considerations at the levels of both Ministries and
various tiers of sub-national government, while the Prime Minister's Office will continue the development of national
standards for involuntary resettlement.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Stakeholder consultation will be critical in two areas. The first one is community WSS services. DWD currently uses
community workers and staff trained in social work to undertake community outreach programs. This work will
continue under PRSC3 The decentralization process has devolved priority setting to political processes at local
levels which have remained very open and participatory, and are deliberately designed for accountability,
transparency, and increased public control In addition, spccial consultative efforts will be undertaken in secondary
education planning, natural resource management, and the formalization of land rights These consultations will be
an important tool aimed at building ownership for the programs and reducing inter-and intra-community resource
conflicts
The environmental analysis will be incorporated as an annex to the PRSC3 Program Document, and the annex will
be disclosed at the Bank's Infoshop and in Uganda prior to appraisal. A separate Pest Management Plan is not
required for the PRSC3 because pest and pesticide management issues are addressed through the NAAD project's
PMP which has been disclosed. In addition, PRSC4 preparation, the Bank together with the Government will
explore and agree on ways to further strengthen pesticide management The work will focus on pesticide
registration, selection, the overall regulatory framework goverming pesticide use, and incentives for integrated Pest
Management.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is detennined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is



5
ISDS
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3 - No safeguard issues
[ SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues



6
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                3/7/2003       3/19/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            3/20/2003      3/20/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             3/20/2003      3/20/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expecled      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan                                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan                                  Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. A Pest
Management Plan is not required for this PRSC. Previously, a Pest management plan was submitted as part of the
National Agicultural Advisory Services Project to meet safeguard requirements and this information is summarized
in the PRSC EA document.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Satu Knstiina Kahkonen                     06/09/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists I  Dan R. Aronson/Person/World Bank        06/09/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Kenneth M. Green/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                    06/09/2003
Sector Manager/Director       Fredenck Kilby                              06/09/2003



