Report No. PID11484
Project Name             UGANDA-Third Poverty Reduction Support...
Credit
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   General agriculture; fishing and
forestry sector (20%); General
public administration sector (20%);
General water/sanitation/flood
protection sector (20%); Health (20%);
General education sector (20%)
Project ID               P074081
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Finance, Planning and
Economic Development
Address: Treasury Building,
P.O. Box 8147, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mrs. Mary Muduuli,
Deputy Secretary
Tel: 256-41-234433
Fax: 256-41-231163
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        October 10, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 20, 2003
Bank Approval Date       June 20, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Uganda's economic performance in the past decade was impressive, with the
average real rate of GDP growth over six percent per annum. The pace of
economic growth moderated at the end of 1990s due to a sharp decline in
the terms of trade, as a result of sharply decreased international coffee
prices. The economy has, however, started to pick up again and the GDP
growth is expected to be above six percent in 2002/03. The living
standards of Uganda's poor have also substantially increased in the past
ten years: since 1992 the incidence of poverty (based on headcount index)
has declined by 38 percent.Despite impressive macroeconomic performance
and a dramatic fall in poverty in the 1990s, 35 percent of the population
remain in abject poverty in Uganda. Moreover, despite the substantial
increase in government resources allocated for social services,
commensurate progress in social and human development has not been
forthcoming. Although key education and health indicators have improved
in the past decade, most social indicators are still worse than the
average in the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa. Public services are often
still inadequate and/or of poor quality. The Government has responded to
these challenges by preparing a comprehensive medium-term development
strategy, the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). The summary of the
PEAP served as the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that was
presented to the Boards of the Bank and the Fund in May 2000.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the proposed PRSC3 will be to support the



implementation of Uganda's PEAP/PRSP. The credit will not provide support
to all the policy measures in the PEAP/PRSP, but will selectively focus on
policy and institutional reforms with the highest poverty impact.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
The PRSC3 will continue supporting and further developing the reform
program developed under the PRSC1 and PRSC2, with the aim to improve
service delivery in Uganda. The reform program will attempt to improve
service delivery through:Efficient and equitable use of public resources,
which is essential for improving public resource allocation and raising
the productivity and cost-efficiency of public investment and other
expenditures, and strengthened financial sector performance. This
includes reforms aimed at improving public expenditure management,
strengthening monitoring and evaluation, and improving performance of the
pension and insurance sectors. Improved governance through cross-cutting
public sector reforms, such as the reform of public service and pay,
public procurement, financial management, and measures to increase
transparency, civil society participation, and fight against corruption.
The revision of the current public pay structure and human resource
management will help the Government recruit and retain high-quality
staff. Improvements in public procurement and financial management will
promote accountability for public resources, and enhanced transparency,
participation, and anti-corruption efforts will help citizens hold their
leaders and public officials more accountable for the quantity and quality
of services.Promotion of enabling environment for rural development,
including steps to improve the effectiveness of agricultural research and
advisory services, and the promotion of rural finance, rural roads, and
sustainable natural resource management. Stimulating agricultural and
rural growth rates is essential for sustained poverty reduction, since 96
percent of the poor live in rural areas and most of them earn their living
from agriculture.Improved access to and quality of education, health care,
and water and sanitation services. Effective delivery of basic services
will not improve unless binding sector-specific constraints are
addressed. However, many problems in basic service delivery are beyond
the mandate of a particular sector and require collaboration across
ministries and agencies.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $150.00
Total Project Cost $150.00
6. Implementation
Poverty focused operation.
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- 2 -



9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   Given that the proposed PRSC3 includes a
significant focus on sectoral policies and institutions, it has been
classified as category B, with the requirement that environmental analysis
be incorporated into the credit documentation. An environmental annex
will be disclosed to the public at a later date.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Satu Kristiina Kahkonen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2170
Fax:   (202) 473-8262
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 3 -



