Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H063 UG 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Third Poverty Reduction Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER  H063 UG 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2003, between THE REPUBLIC OF 
UGANDA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated July 23, 2003, (the 
Letter of Development Policy) from the Recipient describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to eradicate poverty from the Recipient's territory 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided to, 
in support of the Program, provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant 
in a single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BOU” means the Bank of Uganda, the Recipient's central bank; 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)        “FY”  means  the  Recipient’s  fiscal  year  commencing  on  July  1  and 
ending on June 30 of the following year;  
Page  3
2
-
-
(d) 
 
“Land Sector Strategic Plan” means the Recipient’s Plan for the 
implementation of the Land Act of 1998 referred to in paragraph 75 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
(e) 
“Leaders” means Ministers, Presidential Advisors, Permanent 
Secretaries, Directors and officials of the Uganda Revenue Authority”;  
(f) 
“Leadership Code” means the Leadership Code Act 2002, Act 17, 2002 
of the Laws of the Recipient”; and 
(g) 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Recipient’s letter referred to 
in paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
106,000,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in BOU, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Page  4
3
-
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 and 
December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. BOU is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
(b) 
The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
Page  5
4
-
-
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance, Planning and Economic Development of the Recipient is designated as the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  6
5
-
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance, Planning 
and Economic Development 
 
P.O Box 8147 
Kampala 
Uganda 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 FINSEC 
230163 
 Kampala 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
    248423 (MCI) or 
    (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
      64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  7
6
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA 
 
By 
/s/ Edith Ssempala 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Judy O’Connor 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa Region 
Page  8
7
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant  
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Recipient; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112  - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122             
- 
 
 Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
 Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
 Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
 
 Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
Page  9
8
-
-
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
 
 Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 -   
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association);  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a 
beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  10
9
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Taken By the Recipient 
The Recipient has:  
 
(a) 
(i) adopted a medium term expenditure framework, satisfactory to 
the Association, for FY2002/03-2004/05, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 20 of the Letter of Development Policy; and (ii) executed its budget in 
FY 2002/03 consistent with the allocations made pursuant to subparagraph (i) 
above; 
 
(b) 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 37 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, adopted salary adjustments in line with a pay reform strategy and 
associated wage bill reflected in its medium term expenditure framework; 
 
(c) 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 33 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, and in consultation with the Ministries of Education and Sports, 
Health, and Water, Lands and Environment, produced preliminary findings of a study on 
cost effectiveness and efficiency of employment and staff utilization in the social sectors;  
(d) 
enacted a Procurement Act and a Public Finance and Accountability Act 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 42 and 46 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; 
(e) 
(i) caused its Inspectorate of Government, to advise the relevant  
appointing authorities to take appropriate disciplinary action under the Leadership Code, 
against those Leaders who failed to declare their income, assets and liabilities as required 
under the Leadership Code; and (ii) taken appropriate disciplinary measures against the 
Leaders referred to in paragraph (i) above, all in accordance with the provisions of  
paragraph 51 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(f) 
completed, through its Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment and 
Public Service Commission, recruitment of staff for the Land Sector Strategic Plan  
implementation division, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 75 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(g) 
implemented the measures agreed in the review of its education sector 
carried out in April 2002 and confirmed in the education sector review held in October 
2002, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 81 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(h) 
implemented the measures agreed in the review of its health sector held 
in April 2002 and confirmed by the health sector review held in October 2002, in a 
Page  11
10 
 
-
-
manner satisfactory to the Association, and consistent with the provisions of paragraph 
83 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(i) 
approved, through its Ministry of Public Service, the reorganization of 
the Directorate of Water Development, and has commenced its implementation, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 109 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
and 
(j) 
adopted, through its Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic 
Development and the National Water Sewerage Corporation, a time-bound action plan to 
settle the existing arrears of its various ministries to the National Water and Sewerage 
Corporation, and has taken measures, satisfactory to the Association, to prevent its 
various ministries  from creating new arrears through the timely payment of bills to the 
National Water and Sewerage Corporation, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 112 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  12
11 
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read 
as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
 The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used 
in Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read 
as follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant 
to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”.” 
Page  13
12 
 
-
-
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the equivalent in 
terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Grant Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a)  The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) 
is modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of Section 
8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant.” 
7. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, 
respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
8. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 “Section 
12.05. 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the Development Grant 
Agreement.”
 
