Report No. PID6709
Project Name                     Argentina-Second Mining Development (+)
Technical Assistance
Region                           Latin America & the Caribbean
Sector                           Mining
Project ID number                ARPE55477
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Mining Undersecretariat
Av. Julio A. Roca 651, 2ndo piso
1322 Capital Federal, Argentina
Tel: +54-1-349-3271/74
Fax: +54-1-349-3273
Date this PID prepared           December 2, 1997
Project Appraisal date           December 15, 1997
Project Board date               February 10, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background. Partially supported by a formidable reform
and an ambitious privatization program, Argentina's current macroeconomics
program is resulting in price stability and economic growth unknown for
decades in the country. As sustained future growth hinges on an expanding and
dynamic private sector, the Government's role is to avoid distortions that
repress and misguide private economic activities, and to provide an enabling
institutional and regulatory framework for their development, among them
mining. A 1993 Bank Mining Sector Review showed sector performance (about 0.2w
of GDP and 0.2w of total exports) is far below the country's potential. Sector
production (US$ 492 million, 1994) is mostly divided between many small non
metallic operations (91.7w of total production value, 1994). Until 1996, only
three producers of metallic minerals accounted for 80t of the country's
production and two accounted for 759 of the gold mined. Following the Bank
review, the Government implemented a deep reaching sector reform, including
the modernization of the legal and institutional frameworks, as well as of the
basic geological information infrastructure. Important laws approved between
1993 and 1995 improve the investment environment for mining and clearly define
the environmental norms and management set up for sector activities. A first
Mining Sector Development Technical Assistance Project, funded by the
Government and the Bank is supporting the reform at the federal level as well
as in six Provinces of North West Argentina. As a result, the sector
performance is drastically improving: US$120 million were invested in
exploration in 1996, compared with US$10 million in 1992; and total investment
in mining reached more than US$1,000 in 1997, compared with US$10 million in
1992. Yet, the reform remains to be implemented in 17 of the 23 Provinces of
Argentina.
2.      Project Objectives. The project is a repeater of a successful on-going
operation, the Mining Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3927-AR).
Its main purpose is to extend the institutional capacity building components
regarding administration of mining rights, environmental management and
information management to the 17 Provinces which are not participating in the
present project. The Project Development Objectives of the proposed operation



are identical to those of the on-going project: to develop and support,
through institutional development T.A., the federal and provincial
governments' policy, regulatory and institutional reforms which encourage the
expansion of private investment in mining in an environmentally sound way. It
will help to build the provincial capacities for efficient administration of
mining rights and environmental management, develop the understanding of and
the capacity to address social impacts from mining, support provincial
divestiture and link the Provinces to the National Mining Information Network.
3.      Project Description. The Project has two components. (i) A Policy
Implementation Component, providing consultancies to support the
administrative capacity and installations of the sector agencies in seventeen
Provinces, including their cadastral and registry systems and related advisory
services, a mining data bank and public information network, and the
mechanisms to monitor and enforce environmental and social management related
to mining activities. It would also finance relevant skill transfer, training
and divestiture efforts. (ii) A Project Coordinating Unit (UCP) to oversee
Project implementation. The Project finances consulting services and contract
works, computer equipment and software, field and office equipment and
vehicles, training, incremental recurrent costs and the necessary upgrading of
facilities.
4.      Project costs and financing. Total costs of the Project is estimated at
US$46.5 million equivalent, of which 69t is foreign exchange. A Bank loan of
US$39.5 million is contemplated, and the Federal and Provincial Governments
would mostly finance local costs.
5.      Implementation Arrangements. The Project would be implemented over a
period of 24 months. The Project completion date would be June 30, 2000 and
the Loan closing date would be September 30, 2000. The Undersecretariat of
Mines (SSM) would be responsible for the implementation of the project. The
following 17 Provinces would participate in the project: Buenos Aires, Chaco,
Chubut, C6rdoba, Corrientes, Entre RUos, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, Misiones,
Neuquen, Rio Negro, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe, Santiago del Estero, Tierra del
Fuego y Tucuman. The mining authority (Secretariat/Directorate of Mines
(SPM/DPM)), through an officialy designated coordinator, will be responsible
for the overall implementation of the project in their respective Province.
SSM will strengthen the existing Project Coordination Unit (UCP) to (i) link
with the SPMs/DPMs, (ii) coordinate and provide technical assistance to the
implementing agencies regarding project implementation, and (iii) manage (a)
procurement - including all contracting for works and purchases - and the
hiring of consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c)
the contractual relationship with the Bank, and (d) financial record keeping,
the Special Account and disbursements. Project activities and progress would
be overseen by the Federal Mining Council (COFEMIN), a consultative mining
policy body representing the Provinces.
6.      Project Sustainibility. Based on the foundations of the first mining
Project - including the development of the legal, regulatory and institutional
frameworks -, the proposed operation will assist in creating conditions to
attract long-term private investment for mining development and to establish a
self-sustained sector growth. Sustainibility will be enhanced through the
Project's strong emphasis on institutional building, training, human capital
development and environmental as well as social awareness in the public and
private sectors. Institutional and financial mechanisms will be instated in
-2 -



order to sustain the activities of the Public Mining Institutions in the long-
term.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector. [Note:
Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and
other development agencies.] Lessons have been learned from the ongoing Mining
T.A. Project as well as from other countries where the Bank has financed
projects to develop mining (e.g. Bolivia, Ecuador, Mexico and Peru) and from a
recent Bank review on mining sector reform in Latin America (A Mining Strategy
for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996). (i) The emphasis put in the first
project on management capacity development of provincial public mining
institutions has proven to be correct and will be repeated in the second
operation. (ii) The participation of six Provinces in the first project has
been extremely useful in terms of piloting. However, there is an imperative
need to extend the reform to the rest country, as difficulties regarding
sector management in any of the Provinces have an impact affecting mining
development in Argentina as a whole. (iii) Regional implementation units
specifically dedicated to overall technical coordination and assistance to the
provincial units in charge of the different subcomponent will be strengthened
with respect to the first operation, in order to support project
implementation and improve ownership when necessary. (iv) [Note:     Lessons
learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and other
development agencies.]Centralized procurement and consultant hiring
arrangements under the responsibility of the UCP has proven to be highly
successful and efficient and would be repeated. Delegation of procurement
responsibility to the provincial agencies would cause delays and increase
management, without contributing significatively to an improved management
capacity of the referred entities. And (v), existing monitoring mechanisms are
working well under the first project, particularly in the case of works and
consultancy contracts.
8.      Poverty Category. N/A
9.      Environmental Aspects. The comprehensive Sector Environmental Assessment
(SEA) carried out in 1994 has been updated as part of the preparation of this
category B operation, reviewing the present status of (i) the environmental
legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks; (ii) the evolution of the
mining sector, including a description of most of the mining projects in
operation or under development; (iii) the potential physical and socio-
economic impacts of sector activities on the environment and on the
communities, including indigenous populations; (iv) lessons learned resulting
from two years of implementation of the first Project, as well as from the
application of the Environmental Law for Mining Activities (Law 24585,
November 1995) and its regulations and from the initial activities of the
Provincial Environmental Management Units (UGAPs); and (v), the technical
assistance to support the extension of an efficient and consistent
environmental management system to the whole country. Compared with two years
ago, the situation regarding environment and mining has changed considerably.
A specific Law ( 24585) has been passed and included within the Mining Code,
applicable and enforceable for whole country. Regulations have been approved
in many of the Provinces and procedures as well as technical manuals are being
developed. Application agencies are operative in virtually all Provinces.
Hundreds of Environmental Impact Statements (EIS) have been prepared by the
mining rights holders and presented to the respective UGAPs, as a result of
the enactment of the Law. The EIS have been processed in a satisfactorily
- 3 -



manner despite the relatively weak capacity and technical level of the UGAPs.
While work will continue under the first operation to develop and improve
procedures, environmental guidelines, monitoring processes and work
methodologies, the second Project will include (i) measures to enable the
UGAPs of the 17 participating Provinces to develop their administrative
capacities, facilities, resources and staff training to implement their
functions and enforce the environmental regulations; the Environmental
Information and Management System (EIMS) currently under development will be
implemented; (ii) preparation of environmental baseline studies, to assess
natural, social and sector background data in selected areas of each of the
participating Provinces; (iii) preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline
studies aiming at the definition and implementation of consultation
procedures, training requirements and programs, ad hoc institutional
strengthening and other related measures.
10.     Program Objectives Category. Private sector Development. The Project is a
repeater of a successful on-going operation, the Mining Development Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 3927-AR). The Project development objectives of the
proposed operation are identical to those of the on-going project: to develop
and support, through institutional development T.A., the Federal and
provincial governments' policy, regulatory and institutional reforms which
encourage the expansion of private investment in mining in an environmentally
sound way.
11.     Project Benefits. (i) Induced by the project: (a) Increased foreign and
local direct investment in mining projects and increased export revenues; (b)
development of private service capacity to the mining industry, such as
exploration and drilling services, environmental impact studies, laboratories,
mining construction works and earth removal, maintenance and others; (c)
development of infrastructure related to mining and with a regional
development impact (e.g. roads, energy, water); (d) increased income-
generating opportunities in areas with high unemployment, increased education
opportunities and reduced migration outflow; (e) contribution to the
decentralization and to a better regional distribution of productive; and (f),
sustainable development and fair benefits for local communities located around
mining. And, (ii) as a direct result of the project, i.a.:(a) extension to the
entire country of a modern, consistent and homogeneous mining legal and
regulatory framework; (b) improved efficiency of provincial public mining
institutions (e.g. faster and non-discretionary administration of mining
rights) and improved enforcement capacity of environmental, health and safety
regulations; (c) improved security of tenure for mining rights through
accurate geographical location of concessions; (d) introduction to and
training in modern technology as a base for sustainable sector growth; (e)
improved knowledge of existing environmental and socio-economic conditions, as
a basis for improved management and participation of local communities; (f)
protection of the environment from potential damages caused by the mining
industry; and (g), generation of baseline information that can be used by all
sectors (e.g. water resources).
12.     Project Risks. The overall risk of the Project is estimated to be
moderate. The main identified risks and their minimization measures included
in Project design are: (i) Provincial commitment to reform: a Federal
Agreement for the Implementation of the Project will be signed prior to
effectiveness, spelling out policy principles (i.a. regarding mining rights
administration and environmental management set up) and implementation
- 4 -



guidelines; (ii) condensed timing to build-up DPMs' capacity to master new
work methods: flexibility in the "module-wise", detailed design of
institutional development and in the implementation plan; and proven strong
advisory capacity at the federal level to guide and support the development of
managerial and administrative capacities; and (iii), consensus building within
and between individual Provinces to unify administrative procedures: COFEMIN
has assumed an oversight function and is a forum to debate possible conflicts
and develop consensus positions.
11.     Contact Point.   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
The Environmental Law for Mining Activities as been approved by unanimity by
Congress in December 1995.
-6-



