Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24362
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42820)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 39.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ARGENTINA
FOR A
SECOND MINING DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 15, 2002
Oil, Gas, Mining and Chemicals Department
Country Management Unit: Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
AR$1.00 = US$ US$1.00
US$ 1.00 = AR$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BUD                  Unified Mining Information System
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
COFEMIN              Federal Mining Council
DPM                  Provincial Mining Directorate
GPS                  Global Positioning Systems
GIS                  Geological Information Systems
NGO                  Non-governmental Organizations
PASMA                Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
PCU                  Project Coordinating Unit
PSR                  Project Status Reports
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
SEGEMAR              Argentine Geological and Mining Survey
SINATEM              National System of Mining Technology
SRM                  Mining Registry System
SSM                  Under Secretariat of Mines
SUIM                 Unified Mining Information System
UGAM                 Mining Environmental Management Unit (ex UGAN)
UGAN                 National Environmental Management Unit (now UGAM)
UGAP                 Provincial Environmental Management Units
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Alex van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:  Peter van der Veen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Gotthard Walser



ARGENTINA
SECOND MINING DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              11
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 17
9. Partner Comments                                                                19
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              30
Annex 8. Borrower's Summary Report                                                 31
Map IBRD 29348






Project ID: P055477                                      Project Name: MINING TA
Team Leader: Gotthard Walser                             TL Unit: COCPD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: November 15, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MINING TA                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-42820
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Mining and other extractive (50%); Central
govemment administration (35%); Sub-national
government administration (15%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/20/1997                             Effective: 04/30/1998         01/10/1999
Appraisal:  12/12/1997                               MTR: 04/01/1999            09/20/1999
Approval:  02/10/1998                              Closing: 06/30/2000          09/30/2001
Borrower/Inmplementing Agency:  GOVT OF ARGENTINA/FEDERAL UNDERSECRETARIAT OF MINES
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Axel van Trotsenburg                      Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:      Peter A. Van Der Veen                     Peter A. Van Der Veen
Team Leader at ICR:  Gotthard Walser                           Gotthard Walser
ICR Primary Author:  Gotthard Walser; Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Second Mining Sector Development T.A. project (known in the country as PASMA
II: "Segundo Proyecto de Asistencia al Sector Minero Argentino") were to develop and support, through
institutional development technical assistance, the provincial governments' policy, regulatory and
institutional reforms which encourage the expansion of private investment in mining in an environmentally
sound way.
The project was a repeater of the successful operation, the Mining Development Technical Assistance
Project (PASMA I, Ln. 3927-AR; cf. ICR No 23368) initiated at the end of 1995 and carried out in
parallel between January 1998 and June 2001. PASMA II aimed to help building the capacities of the
following 17 Provinces, which did not participate in PASMA I: Buenos Aires, Chaco, Chubut, C6rdoba,
Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe,
Santiago del Estero, Tierra del Fuego and Tucumnan (see Map). In particular, the project focused on: (i)
improving the efficiency of these Provinces in the administration of mining rights and environmental
management; (ii) developing their understanding and strengthening their capacity to address social impacts
from mining; and (iii) linking the Provinces to the National Mining Information Network.
The project also aimed to: (i) adjust the organization and work methodology of the Provincial public mining
institutions in line with the new policy and legal frameworks, and strengthen their capacity; (ii) unify the
mining concession and cadastral procedures for the entire country; and (iii) develop permitting procedures
as well as environmental and social monitoring capacity of the provincial environmental management units
(UGAPs), and establish environmental baseline information.
The project objectives were clear and realistic. They were also consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on May 15, 1997, which emphasized continued Bank
support to Argentina for: (i) enhancing social development, including poverty alleviation and human
resource development; and (ii) improving the performance and institutional capacity of government,
particularly sub-national governments, to deliver key social, infrastructure and environmental services.
Taking advantage of the implementation and political momentum generated by PASMA I, the project was
relevant to achieve the overall objectives of the sector reform as it focused on the regulatory and
institutional development of the provincial authorities, since the Provinces are responsible for the
management of their mining resources, according to the Argentine Constitution, and thus represent the
principal legal interface between the State and the mining companies (support to the Federal sector agencies
was provided under PASMA I).
The project was responsive to the needs of the Borrower. Through the implementation of the project, the
State was expected to: (i) create an enabling environment for a socially and environmentally sound
development of the sector; and (ii) strengthen its capacity as a regulator - in a transparent and
non-discretionary manner- of mining activities. The project also supported the new role of the public
mining institutions (PMIvls) as defined in detail under PASMA I, including the respective role of the public
and the private sectors as well as inter-institutional relationships and mandates.
The project envisioned the following benefits to Argentina, derived as a direct result of the project as well
as induced by the project:
(i) As a direct result of the project:(a) extension to the entire country of a modem, consistent and
homogenous mining legal and regulatory framework; (b) improved efficiency of provincial public mining
institutions (e.g. faster and non-discretionary administration of mining rights) and improved enforcement
capacity of environmental, health and safety regulations; (c) improved security of tenure for mining rights
-2-



through accurate geographical location of concessions; (d) introduction to and training in modem
technology as a base for sustainable sector growth; (e) improved knowledge of existing environmental and
socio-economic conditions, as a basis for improved management and participation of local communities; (f)
protection of the environment from potential damages caused by mining; and (g) generation of baseline
information that can be used by other sectors as well as for land use planning purposes.
(ii) Induced by the project: (a) increased foreign and local direct investment in mining projects and
increased export revenues; (b) development of private service capacity to the mining industry, such as
exploration and drilling services, environmental impact studies, laboratories, mining construction works
and earth removal, maintenance and others; (c) development of infrastructure related to mining and with a
regional development impact (e.g. roads, energy, water); (d) increased income-generating opportunities in
areas with high unemployment, increased education opportunities and reduced migration outflow; (e)
contribution to the decentralization and to a better regional distribution of productive activities; and (f),
sustainable development and fair benefits for local communities located around mining.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised
3.3 Original Components:
The components were closely related to achieving the objectives. The project design was well prepared and
it had all necessary elements to achieve them, especially since, apart of the addition of socio-economic
impact activities, it strictly adhered to the successful design and implementation of PASMA-I.
The project consisted of the following components and sub-components:
* Component A: Policy Implementation
o   A. 1: Institutional Capacitv Development. This component consisted of the following two activities:
(i). Implementation and Adjustment of the New Institutional Model, aiming at re-organizing and
strengthening the Provincial Mining Directorates (DPMs) to fulfill the provincial mandates and
functions, in consistency with the reform policy.
(ii): Institutional Infrastructure. Based on the results of the above activity, upgrade of facilities at
the participating DPMs.
O A.2: Unified Mining Cadastre and Re2istrv System. Based on the model developed under PASMA-I,
the project financed the transformation of the physical registries of participating Provinces into
proper mining cadastres. This sub-component included four activities:
i. A national and Regional Coordination Team, responsible for the overall planning and works
implementation supervision, to ensure consistency and homogeneity of the geodetic and cadastral
surveys and of the cadastral and registry systems.
ii. Topogeosic and Cadastral Survey Works: upgrading of the Argentina geodetic networks, and
GPS-based survey of all existing exploration and mining concessions.
iii. Equipment: purchase of modem hardware and software, topogeodetic instruments (including
GPS instruments), vehicles and the provision and furnishing of adequate field and office
facilities for the cadastre and registry functions.
iv. Mining Cadastre Management System: Implementation and Training. Based on the experience
of the PASMA I, implementation of the computerized Mining Cadastre System (SRM: "Sistema
de Registro Minero") in the participating Provinces and on-the-job training.
- 3-



o A.3: Environmental Management. The general objective of this Subcomponent was to extend to the
participating Provinces sector environmental management capacity as well as develop the
components of a preventive environmental protection system for mining activities, as already
implemented under PASMA I.
i. Strengthening of the National Environmental Management Unit (UGAN: "Unidad de Gestion
Ambiental Nacional"). Strengthening the existing capacity of the UGAN (established under
PASMA I) - as a federal coordinating unit responsible for the development of an adequate and
consistent nationwide environmental policy and regulatory framework - to deal with the
coordination of the institutional and management capacity development of the participating
UGAPs, as well as the supervision of the baseline and socio-economic studies to be carried out
under the Project.
ii. Environmental Management Capacity Building of Provincial Environmental Management
Units (UGAPs: "Unidades de Gestion Ambiental Provincial'). Establishment and capacity
building of environmental management capacities related to mining in the 17 participating
Provinces.
iii. Environmental Baseline Studies. The program financed an environmental baseline study for each
of the participating Provinces to (a) delineate sensitive areas and (b) to define a "baseline" level
against which assess the impacts of mining operations.
iv. Training and Institutional Strengthening in Assessment of Socio-Economic Impacts of Mining
Investments. Considering the importance of mining development contribution to local and
regional development, this subcomponent included conducting pilot baseline studies in selected
provinces to: (a) identify the likely social, cultural, macro and micro economic, financial, fiscal,
and other impacts of mining; (b) identify principal groups of local and regional stakeholders in
the project, such as the workforce, suppliers and vendors to the enterprise, company owners and
shareholders, non-government organizations, infrastructure, and the local and provincial
govenmuents; (c) devise statistical and other performance indicators to objectively assess the
costs and benefits of the impacts for each group of stakeholders; (d) evaluate and assess the key
questions and issues to be addressed; and (e) make concrete recommendations and devise an
action plan for subsequent activities. The baseline studies in the selected provinces were expected
to serve as templates for subsequent work in other provinces.
A.4: Unified Mining Information System (SUIM: "Sistema Unificado de Informacion Minera ",
earlier known as BUD "Banco Unificado de Datos"). The Subcomponent aimed at: (i) set-up and
strengthen the information management units in 17 provinces, systematizing the development of relevant
data bases according to the norms and standards of the SUIM; and (ii) developing the existing Mining
Information and Promotion program (MINPRO) in the participating Provinces. The Subcomponent
included four activities:
(i): Implementation of SUIM units at the Provincial Level: to set-up Information Technology
systems and systematize the collection and interpretation of sector information in the 17 provinces,
to link the provincial units to the nation-wide-SUIM, making use of state of the art technology,
integrate the cadastral and environmental information systems into a DPMs-wide management
information system (MIS), particularly with respect to permitting and monitoring functions.
(ii). Works and Equipment. hardware and software specifically dedicated to the SUIM functions,
communications devices and accessories. Software requirements included programs in
administrative system and database management, processing, communications and editing,
including GIS.
-4 -



. (iii): Training. A training program, mostly on-the-job, aimed to the implementation and use of the
provincial MIS and national SUIM.
(iv): Mineral Markets and Statistics. Extension to the participating Provinces of the Mining
Information and Promotion Program (MINPRO) implemented within the framework of PASMA I
at the federal level.
* Component B: Project Coordinating Unit (UCP). Strengthening of the PASMA I UCP in order to
cope with the increased volume of work required to coordinate, manage and supervise the
implementation of PASMA II.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised. However, in early 1999, due to budget restrictions, the Ministry
of Economy and the Chief of Ministries Cabinet Office asked the project to strongly prioritize activities and
reduce costs (see Section 5.4 and Annex 2). Overall, the project implementation objectives have not been
significantly altered (see Section 4.2).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Since the project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), there is no official
assessment of the project's quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at entry to be
satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the government
priorities and met the critical needs of the mining sector.
The commitment of the Provinces to implement the reform actions supported by the project was ensured by
the signing, as a pre-requisite to be part of the project, of the "PASMA Agreement". This agreement had
been drafted and signed in 1995 by the federal govemement and the six Provinces of PASMA I to formalize
the policy and implementation principles along which the project would be carried out.
The project was straight forward, without additional complexity, since it was built upon the experience of
PASMA I. It was also responsive to the Borrower's development priorities in the mining sector. The
project was relevant to achieve the overall sector reform objectives, since it focused on the extention of the
reform to the 17 provinces which did not participate in the first technical assistance project. The project
was less demanding to the Borrower, as the coordination responsibilities and procedures were already in
place and understood by all.
The Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) carried out under the preparation of PASMA I was
up-dated, in particular taking into account the involvement of the Provinces participating in PASMA II.
The actions identified in the SEA's Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were incorporated into the
project
(The project SEA can be found at:
http://www-wds.worldbank.org/servlet/WDSServlet?pcont-details&eid=000009265_3980624143126).
Since the project was based on the experience of PASMA I, the quality of project design was more refined
and adequate to meet the project's overriding objective of improving the capacity of 17 Provinces. During
preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from PASMA-I, other TA operations, in
Argentina and from mining projects in other countries (e.g. Bolivia, Ecuador, Mexico and Peru) and from a
Bank review on mining sector reform in Latin America: A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the
Caribbean, 1996, were considered and incorporated into the project design. The project preparation also
used a participatory approach by consulting and coordinating closely with the Provinces, as well as with
industry branch organizations, trade associations, miners unions and NGOs for carrying out the basic
- 5 -



environmental legislative work addressing mining activities. In addition, the design took into account major
risk factors which could hinder project implementation, such as Provincial commitment to reform;
condensed timing to build-up DPM's capacity to master new work methods; consensus building within and
between individual Provinces to unify administrative procedures; continued DPM's staff ownership
regarding project objectives; staff stability; political interference; procurement delays; and performance by
contracted firms and consultants. In order to mitigate these risks, necessary measures were adopted into the
project design.
The project considered two design alternatives, viz: (a) Participation of a smaller set of Provinces (e.g. 6 to
10) instead of all Provinces (17); and (b) Implementation of a repeater operation at a later stage or after
completion of PASMA-I. Option (a) was rejected considering that: (i) management and implementation
complexity would not be significantly different; and (ii) the establishment of unified and modem procedures
regarding administration of mining rights and environmental protection to the whole country would
generate a greater synergy effect in terms of sector development, including for example Provinces with an
important potential of non-metallic minerals. Option (b) was rejected considering the favorable momentum
created by PASMA-I and on the assessment that it was highly likely that commitment to reform - a critical
factor - and political support could be maintained at the then prevailing level, at least during the first two
years of the project.
With hindsight, the project design did not take into account sufficiently the following aspects:
a) Implemention duration (2 years). Most of the implementation objectives could be achieved during the
project life; however, the delays in getting the loan agreement actually signed - 8 months after Board
approval - implied the need to extend the closing date by one year to complete the implementation plan. In
addition, despite the synergies between both PASMAs, there was not enough time margin to consolidate
some of the outputs, such as, for example, the links between the provincial and federal information systems.
b) Lack of clarity on the implementation sequence of the socio-economic impact studies. While this activity
seemed straight forward at the design stage, during implementation it turned out that the priorities,
perspectives, and outputs were differently perceived by the Borrower and the Bank's team (see Section 4.2).
c) A risk which was not foreseen was the country's economic deterioration which started in early 1999 and
resulted in the deep economic and political crisis by end-2001 and so far still prevalent.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was successful in achieving its development objectives. It assisted the govemment to implement
its policy, regulatory and institutional reforms with the goal of encouraging the expansion of private
investment in mining in an environmentally sound way in the 17 Provinces. It also helped build the capacity
needed at these provinces for the efficient administration of mining rights. Based on the key indicators
described in the project appraisal document, the detailed outcomes of the project are as follows (see also
Annex 1):
1. Encourage private sector investment in mining and ensure it contributes to a sustainable economic and
social development in participating provinces:
o   Enabling environment: the project (as such as well as through its links to PASMA 1) contributed to
increase mining investment and production in the PASMA II seventeen provinces through the extension
to them of the regulatory and institutional reform. Mining investment increased from US$56 million in
1996 to US$75million in 2001(estimated; down from est. US$120 million in 2000) and mining
production of metallic ore increased from US$40.3 million to US$112 million in 2000 (see also Section
6.1).
-6-



o   Consultative procedures: there is now a better appreciation in Argentina regarding the
inter-relationships between mining development and local or regional development, and, as a result of
the work carried out under PASMA II, of the importance of community participation at the early stage
of mining development (see Section 4.2 below). However, consultative procedures remain largely at the
provincial-federal authorities interface (COFEMIN) as well as between federal/provincial governments
and companies. (The only Province implementing consultative processes for investments/infrastructure
projects, including mining, is Mendoza.)
o   Improved awareness and/or knowledge of modem technology, environmental management and other
matters (fiscal, institutional, services, administrative, etc.). Modem concepts and technologies related
to sector management have been succesfully introduced, most efficiently through field and office
on-the-job training (e.g. participation in the GPS-based cadastral surveys; participation in
environmental baseline studies, etc.), as well as through formal workshops and seminars (e.g. fiscal
workshops in nine provincial capitals; series of environmental courses). It has reached one way or the
other all personel of the seventeen DPMs, according to their specialty and needs.This achievement
represent a key factor towards the sustainability of the project results.
2. Extend the mining sector policy, regulations and institutional reform to all participating Provinces:
o   All 17 Provinces have adopted the reformed regulatory framework regarding environmental and mining
rights management. Procedures are now basically similar from Misiones to Tierra del Fuego.
o   A mining rights management system has been established and is operational in all Argentine Provinces,
which ensure properties' security of tenure, a key factor for investment in mining, as well as improved
and homogenized procedures.
o   UGAPs - either under the DPM or under other provincial authorities (see below outputs) - have been
created and established in all Provinces as environmental authorities reponsible for the granting of
environmental permits and monitoring of the sector performance.
4.2 Outputs by coniponents:
Component A: Policy Implementation
A. I. Institutional Capacitv Development. With great success throughout the country, mining agencies
have been restructured, work processes and methodologies streamlined to improve efficiency and quality,
infrastructure modemized, and modem technologies and equipment introduced. Special attention was
paid to the training and motivation of personnel, emphasizing the need to implement a cultural change,
from closed and control-heavy mentalities to a more open and client-oriented behavior. More specifically,
the outputs of the two activities under this Subcomponent were:
i. Implementation and Adjustment of the New Institutional Model. This activity aimed at specifically
adjusting the overall institutional model defined under PASMA I to the Provinces participating in
the project, and then implementing it. The model was adjusted through a participative process
(workshops and seminars) and implemented mainly through on-the-job training under the
supervision of an institutional implementation team, operating on a nation-wide basis in order to
ensure proper coordination and consistency. Work included detailed and ad hoc design of the
institutional model in each of the Provinces, including organization, staffing, budget and
identification of long term financial sources for core responsibilities; the setting up and
implementation of efficient work procedures; and on-the-job training of staff on policy, legal and
management matters. At start, work also included a detailed inventory of the infrastructure needs
(facilities and equipment), which was then funded under the Institutional Infrastructure activity.
-7 -



ii. Institutional Infrastructure. Based on the results of the above activity, facilities and infrastructure
were upgraded at the participating Provincial Mining Directorates (DPMs). The project provided
funds for office rehabilitation, purchase of basic core office equipment (including administrative
hardware and software not included in other subcomponents) and furnitures, vehicles, and the
publication of information and of legal and administrative procedures.Proper implementation
coordination and timing between this activity and the previous one has been a key to success.
A.2. Unified Mininiz Cadastre and Registry System. Based on the model developed under PASMA I, the
project financed the transformation of the physical registries of participating Provinces into proper
mining cadastres. All 17 Provinces adopted and are now applying the so called "Code of Unified
Procedures", a set of reglamentary procedures to manage mining rights agreed by all Argentine
Provinces. All existing mining concessions have been located within an upgraded geodetic reference
network. A reliable and updated mining cadastre has been established in these Provinces, which includes
the setting up of a complementary geodesic reference network in remote areas, the precise location of all
existing mining rights using modem GPS technology, the elimination of legal problems of superposition
and the establishment of a computerized mining rights management system.
i. National and Regional Coordination Team. To ensure consistency and homogeneity in the
carrying out and supervision of the geodesic and cadastral surveys and in the implementation of the
cadastral and registry systems mentioned below, the Cadastral Coordination team (already working
under PASMA I) has been strengthened to operate on a nation-wide basis in cooperation with the
participating DPMs and under the supervision of the UCP. After project closure, a reduced team is
continuing to work under the SSM to provide coordination and technical advise to DPMs regarding
cadastral issues.
ii. Topogeodesic and Cadastral Survey Works. Through a series of works contracts, a "mining"
topogeodesic reference network was set-up (including construction of benchmarks) in areas with an
insufficient density of reference points to which link the concessions. The existing mining
concessions were then surveyed using the same up-to-date technology, benchmarks erected to
locate the properties (according to the procedures defined in the law) and the data incorporated into
the cadastral system. In addition, the mining topogeodesic reference information was transferred to
the Military Geographical Institute (IGM: "Instituto Geografico Militar", the country institution
responsible for the establishment and provision of geographic data and maps), and formally
integrated into the official national network, contributing to the improvement of geo-data
infrastructure of the country.
iii. Equipment. DPMs have been equiped with the relevant equipments (including modem hardware
and software, GPS instruments, vehicules, etc.) and the personnel trained in order to be in capacity
to survey new concessions according to the same methodology. Field and office infrastructure were
also upgraded.
iv. Mining Cadastre Management System: Implementation and Training. The computer based
management system (SRM: "Sistema de Registro Minero") developed by the national coordination
team under PASMA I has been installed and is operating in every DPM of the country. On-the-job
training was provided.
A.3: Environmental Management. Pioneer results have been achieved regarding environmental
management, considering that overall environmental awareness and management capacity was
comparatively low in Argentina at project start. With the support of the project, mining environmental
units have been created in the 17 Provinces and their personnel trained. Since February 1997, when the
law became effective, 3640 Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) have been processed (all
-8a-



country). Under the project, (i) the capacity of UGAPs for pernitting, monitoring and enforcement of
environmental regulations has been strengthened; (ii) unified procedures for the processing of EIAs, as
developed under PASMA I, have been adopted, (iii) the development of a shared federal/provincial
environmental information and management system (EIMS) has been established; (iii) environmental
baseline studies have been carried out over mining and potential mining districts, to provide an adequate
reference framework to evaluate possible future impacts; (iv) socio-economic baseline studies over
selected mining districts as a basis for development of methodology and capacity to assess and monitor
social, cultural and economnic impacts of mining on local communities have been carried out over selected
areas; it included: training of staff in environmental and socio-economic management related to mining;
(v) infrastructure, field and data processing (hardware and software) equipment have been provided.
However, the setup of legal and fiscal mechanisms to ensure an equitable sharing of mineral rents and
develop consultation and participatory procedures were not achieved under the project and will require
further work.
i. Strengthening of the UGAN. Under this activity, the UGAN set up under PASMA I - as a federal
unit responsible for the coordination of the environmental policy and regulatory framework - was
strengthen in terms of multi-disciplinary staff and resources in order to be able to deal with the
coordination of the institutional and management capacity development, including training, of the
participating UGAPs, as well as the supervision of the baseline and socio-economic studies to be
carried out under the Project. This unit, now known as UGAM (Mining Environmental
management Unit), continues with a reduced staff, under the SSM, to provide coordination and
technical or legal advise to the provinces.
ii. Environmental Management Capacity Building of UGAPs. This activity was specifically directed
at the participating UGAPs and included the establishment and strengthening of Provincial
capacities to assess, in coordination with non-sectoral agencies, the EIAs prepared by the mining
companies and to issue, when in cumpliance, environmental permnits. Monitoring of the sector
performance and enforcement of the regulations, norms and standards was developed through the
strengthening of a "Policia Minera" unit (in many Provinces, particularly the "mining" ones, two
separate groups assess the EIAs/grant the permits and monitor cumpliance). Environmental
training was provided, field and office infrastructure has been upgraded, equipment and vehicles
were provided and an environmental management system developed.
iii. Environmental Baseline Studies. The activity financed an environmental baseline study for each
of the participating Provinces and proceeded on a schedule of priority areas which was determined
by the location of environmentally sensitive areas to potential mining development. The studies
included (a) the study and determination of natural resources in watershed areas (mineral, water,
fauna, flora, weather, etc.), resource modeling, socio-economic data and others, (b) evaluation of
the areas with environmental vulnerability, and (c), determination of mining impacts regarding
existing or past operations. The data were input in the SUIM component related to environment.
iv. Training and Institutional Strengthening in Assessment of Socio-Economic Impacts of Mining
Investments. Two pilot baseline studies were conducted in the Bajo de la Alumbrera (Catamarca
province) and of the scheduled Veladero-Pascua Lama (San Juan Province) areas of influence.
These areas were selected on the basis that the former one was representative of an on-going large
scale operation, developed under the environmental safeguards implemented by the federal and
provincial governments, but without benefiting from a more defined social participatory
framework; and the latter one was representative of a major project still to be implemented. The
objectives are described under Section 3.3. Difficulties arose at implementation time (see Section
3.5). While the Borrower wished to focus on the preparation of a development action plan, the
Bank's team felt it was still important to reach a better understanding with respect to the involved
-9-



stakeholders, their interactions, as well as of the local and regional socio-economic, cultural and
environmental factors in order to develop a proper analysis and identify remedies. As a result of a
frank and fruitful dialogue, involving also representatives of local and regional authorities and
communities, the latter approach was selected, and the studies carried out on a participatory basis
(which included the design of the methodology as such). The key questions and issues for each of
the stakholders groups were identified, including population expectations and perceptions, fiscal
aspects, impacts on employement, developement of small businesses, potential infrastructure
development, improved need of participatory mechanisms at an early stage of project development
and others (reports are available in the project file and some of the results are incorporated in an
unpublished MIGA assessment on its loan guarantee regarding the Bajo de la Alumbrera
operation). The main result consist in the development of a methodology which can be implemented
in the case of future projects in order to improve the positive contribution of mining to local
economic and social development and manage properly expectations. Part of the concrete output of
the studies consisted of recommendations and proposals pertaining to consultation procedures,
training requirements, institutional strengthening, impact assessment parameters, and monitoring
and feedback of performance of the operations.This methodology has been replicated after project
closure in the case of a new mining project scheduled in the Esquel area (Neuquen Province).
However, while awareness regarding the socio-economic impacts of mining has without doubt been
increased, ownership by provincial authorities and companies has not yet been consolidated in
order to implement systematically the designed process, due possibly partly to the political and
social fragmentation which results from the present crisis in Argentina. There is certainly a need
for the government to work further on this issue, including the drafting of a related reglamentory
framework, in a similar way to the successful development of the environmental management
capacity.
A.4: Unified Miing Information System (BUD: "Banco Unico de Datos", now known as SUIM:
"Sistema Unificado de Informacion Minera"'. The implementation outputs objectives of this
sub-component have been achieved. A modem computer based information network was established to
share geological, environmental, statistical, legal and other data between federal and provincial agencies.All
personnel at the DPMs have now been introduced to and are in capacity to manage modem information
technology tools. However, once the systems established, there has not been sufficient time to operate them
under the project authority to identify and remediate some of the glitches, particularly with respect of the
functioning of the SUIM as a global inter-mining agencies network. It could be said that the objective to
fully link 17 Provinces and the federal agencies, starting from an almost complete absence of IT
knowledge, was over-ambitious in such a short project implementation period (see Section 3.5).
i. Implementation ofBBUD units at the Provincial LeveL BUD units are set up in the 17 provincial
institutions participating in the project. Under the coordination of a nation-wide task force, the
scope of the activity included the development and installation of computerized integrated
administration management system (including the cadastral SRM) at the provincial mining
institutions. Relevant sector information has been loaded in the mining web site, including mining
concessions, environmental data and more.
ii. Works and Equipment. The procured and installed equipment included: hardware and software
specifically dedicated to the SUIM functions, communications devices and accessories. Software
requirements included programs in administrative system and database management, processing,
communications and editing. In addition, subscriptions to various local and provincial electronic
databases, and Internet were also funded. Some rehabilitation work, in particular network cabling
and connections, up-grading of electrical supply and computer security in government offices were
also provided.
- 10 -



iii. Training. A training program aimed more particularly to the implementation and use of the SUIM
was carried out.
iv. Mineral Markets and Statistics. Due to budget restrictions, this activity has been strongly reduced
and mainly dedicated to the systematization of statistical data collection.
*   Component B: Project Coordinating Unit (UCP). The UCP played a pro-active and critical role in
ensuring the achievement of the project objectives, through a well-organized, coordinated and
consistent support to provincial implementing agencies.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
While the calculation of NPV or ERR figures is difficult to apply to a technical assistance project, it is
useful to summarize some of the macro-economic results for the mining sector in Argentina and to compare
them to what was predicted in the original appraisal document:
Macro-economic Impacts (US$ million)
Low Case            Medium Case             High Case}
Gross     Exmorts     Gross      Exports     Gross      Exgorts
Situation 1994                           496         70
Actual 2000        1,114      692
Predicted 2004     1,045      457        1,657      1,032      2,056       1,312
Projected 2006                                                 2,240       1,635
Table 1. Mining gross production and exports values in 1994 and 2000 compared to project initial
projections
The predictions in 1994 were based on a ten years time horizon for a low, medium and high case scenario.
As can be seen, five years after the project has started the gross production and exports figures already
exceed the low case projections. The predicted figures in 2006 could exceed the high case scenario,
providing the mineral market prices stay around reasonable levels. The project did not directly invest in
these projects, however the progress made on the cadastre, information systems, mining and environmental
laws has made these investment possible.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact has been significant, especially in terms of strengthening the
institutional capacity at the provincial level. Each of the 17 Provinces has now a well-functioning
provincial mining directorate, with sufficient administrative capacity, responsible and responsive to the
needs of the private sector. The staff in these offices interface regularly with private sector for activities
such as processing applications and issuing permits. The project has also equipped these directorates with
GPS and GIS, with trained staff for using them and also with the capacity to assess environmental impact
and environmental management. In addition to enhancing facilities for infrastructure and training, the
project also succeeded in creating an awareness on new concepts of mining management and technology.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Change in intemational economic conditions such as decline of global commodity prices since 1998, and
- 11 -



the fall in funding for mining exploration (from US$5.2 billion in 1997 to US$1.9 billion in 2002,
worldwide; see Fig.1) has been detrimental for Argentina's mining sector and affected to some degree the
outcome of the project. Consequently, some major mining development projects, which were expected to be
developed, did not materialize until project closure. However, on balance, mining exploration investmnents
are, after exceptional years (e.g. 2000: US$140 nillion), so far kept at a reasonable - if not optimum - level
for Argentina of US$40 million for 2002 (compared to about US$4 million/yr before the reform; see Fig.2),
of which about half were spent in PASMA II Provinces.
World - Exploration Expenditures         Argentina - Exploration
Bapenditures
1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1999 1999 20D0 2001 2002  1993 1994 1995 1999 1997 1998 199 2000 2001 2002
Fig. 1 Evolution of exploration expenditures  Fig. 2 Evolution of exploration expenditures
worldwide. Note the abrupt reduction after  in Argentina. Note (i) growth as a result of the
1997 as a consequence of Asian crisis and  sector reform; (ii) investments not strongly
the so-called Bre-X scandal which strongly  affected by the international crisis but (iii)
affected financing sources for exploration by  probably tending to an equilibrium level
junior companies.                  (around US$50 milli./yr)
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Because of the delay in signing the Presidential Decree regarding 'PASMA II Agreement' which set the
policies and procedures to be implemented under the project, the signing of the Loan Agreement was
delayed by eight months and project effectiveness by eleven months. Implementation was further delayed in
the initial stages because of the difficulties to ensure a consistent commitment from the Ministry of
Economy with respect to the quarterly assignation of adequate funding both from Loan and Government
sources. Project activities also slowed down during the political transition period - which extended from
October 1999 to March 2000 - corresponding to the change of administration in Argentina, to pick up
thereafter.
Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions since early 1999, and the resulting financial crisis severely
affected project implementation. For instance, the availability of counterpart funding was a major problem
in 1999, and became acute in 2000 even though it slightly improved in 2001.
While the federal government commitment was still strong after 2000, the administration which came to
power in 2000 was more centralist and the dialogue with the provincial states became more difficult and
this affected some of the project outcomes, such as the creation of an adequate mechanism to ensure the
financial sustainability of the DPMs (see Section 6.1). Project implementation was not affected per se, but
became more complex.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project performed well from the technical and operational perspectives. However, management
effectiveness was reduced, for a number of reasons. In spite of the firnly expressed commitment of the
administration to maintain the objectives of the reform, a mistrust developed between the federal SSM and
the provincial DPMs political leaders, following the change of administration in 2000. This in turn
generated difficulties for smooth project implementation.
- 12 -



Budget constraints caused also difficulties: procurement problems (e.g. regarding the awarding of contracts
for environmental base line studies; preparation of a few bidding documents for goods such as GPS
equipment). While these difficulties could be solved, more serious problems arose regarding financial
management, as described in Section 5.4 below.
Overall, the combination of worsening macroeconomic conditions and the change in administration, made
implementation harder.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project executed at closure amounted to US$ 28.7 million. This is about US$ 17.8
million (-38.3%) less than the US$ 46.5 million estimated in the PAD. The Bank financed about US$
24.12 million (84.0%), and the Government contributed about US$ 4.54 million equivalent in local costs
(16.0%).
The difference in project costs, compared to the estimation at appraisal, are due to two main reasons:
(i) The costs of the topogeodesic and cadastral survey works were much lower than expected. These costs
had been estimated, at appraisal, on the basis of the costs of identical works carried out under PASMA I.
However, taking into account the lessons learned regarding the implementation of these activities, the work
plan and sequence design were optimized and resulted in a significant reduction of costs.
(ii) National economic and budgetary constraints. In early 1999, as a consequence of a worsening economic
situation, the Ministry of Economy and the Chief of Ministries Cabinet Office told the project that the
government would not be in a position to commit the amounts defined under the loan agreement, both in
term of loan proceeds and govermment counterpart funds. As a result, they asked the project to reduce the
scope of activities without altering significantly the overall project objectives (see Sections 3.4 and 5.2
above). This was done through, i.e., a reduced total area coverage by baseline studies; lists of equipements
to be provided reduced to basic needs; increased synergies between PASMA I and I in terms of training
and coordination, etc..
To face the severe restriction in counterpart funds mentioned above, and in order to achieve the
implementation and development objectives, the project implementing unit incurred during 2000 in a misuse
of Bank funds, using loan proceeds to finance part of the government share of expenditures. As the
economic situation continued to worsen during 2000 and 2001, the project could not balance the accounts.
The problem was identified in July 2001, when the audit report for year 2000 was delivered. Due to the
prevailing budget constraints, the project was not in capacity to solve the situation and refund the referred
amount. An action plan was prepared to address this issue during the course of implementation, as had
been done in a similar case for another project in Argentina. However, due to the proximity of the closing
date (September 30, 2001) and the fact that an extension request was not granted, the situation could not be
solved before project closure. The outstanding amount at project closure represents US$2.45 million, to be
refunded to the Bank by the Government of Argentina (in addition to US$0.79 million not used until project
closure, but still on the UNDP account and to be refunded as well). This situation explains the difference
between the Bank financed total and the Bank disbursed amount of US$27.36 million, as shown on the
Integrated Controller's System database.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainibility of the project is rated Likely or, perhaps better said, "not unlikely", taking into account
the present difficult economic and political situation of Argentina and hoping it will improve within a not
- 13 -



too remote future. As in the PASMA I ICR, this rating is applied because the federal and provincial
governments have adopted and maintained a policy conducive to mining sector development - as shown by
the continued support to the Federal Mining Agreement as well as by the commitment of the Federal
Mining Council ("COFEMIvT"), still under the difficult present circumstances -; and because they made
significant progress towards the establishment of an enabling legal and institutional framework and are
demonstrating commitment to follow-up on the results and recommendations of the project.
Institutional sustainability. However, the long term funding in many of the Provinces of all the functions
established under the project still needs to be strengthened through the definition of reliable financing
mechanisms such as those developed in other Latin American countries (for example in Bolivia, Ecuador
and Peru, where the law defines that a percentage of the proceeds from land fees and services are allocated
to the institutions responsible for the sector administration and the provision of the information
infrastructure). The total amount needed to implement all functions defined and developed under the project
to properly manage the sector is estimated at no more than about US$ 2.8 million per year for the 17
provinces involved under the project (and about US$ 4 million for all 23 Argentine provinces), including
operational costs, maintenance and renewal of infrastructure (but not salaries), which broadly corresponds
to the annual mining-related proceeds from services and land fees. However, while the sources of resources
have been identified, proper regulatory arrangements have yet to be made to ensure the channeling of those
resources to finance functions such as (i) environmental monitoring - in the case of all Provinces; and (ii)
basic functions (mining rights administration and environmental permitting) in provinces with less
resources.
Work on the development of suitable mechanisms to finance the institutions and support the fulfillment of
their functions was initiated in 1999 and different options considered, including the creation of a "Mining
Fund" supervised by COFEMNN and based on the mining-related proceeds from services and land fees. At
the change of government at the end of 1999, the new federal authorities opposed the concept of a dedicated
fund and no overall satisfactory solution could be found until now. So far, the sustainability of functions at
the provincial level depends mainly on the reasonable availability and allocation of resources by the
provincial govemements to their respective mining administrations. Due to the prevailing economic crisis in
Argentina and the resulting budget cuts, sustainability is doubtful in certain provinces, particularly in poor
ones or those where mining is not a critical activity (see also Section 8).
Environmental management. An important issue analyzed at the project design stage was the "sectoral"
versus "integral" approach to environmental management. As a rule, the integral approach through an
independent environmental government institution notified to a specific sector and which forms part of a the
overall development planning scheme is the preferred solution. However, in a country like Argentina at a
time, when (i) there was (and still is) no overall environmental law, (ii) the capacity of the federal and of
most of the provincial environmental agencies had (and still have) a poorly developed or, in many cases, no
capacity, (iii) there was an urgent need to establish a capacity to provide a timely response to the on-going
rapid mining sector development, a sector-oriented approach was selected and the project provided support
to the drafting of an Environmental law for Mining Activities (passed in 1995) and to the creation and
strengthening of "mining" UGAPs. Once the basic instruments and capacity in place, movement towards an
integral or a mixed approach can be implemented. In that sense, it is important to note that the provincial
procedures include already the participation of non-sectoral agencies in the process of EIAs evaluation.
And the environmental permitting responsibility in 10 Provinces is shared by the provincial environmental
and mining authorities. Also important to observe, in the case of the Mendoza Province where the overall
environmental management capacity was already well-developed, the authority responsible to apply the
Environmental Law for Mining Activities is the Environmental Directorate, the DPM's UGAP providing
technical support regarding the assessment of mining projects. While the sustainability of some of the
activities implemented under the project still is uncertain - such as the continued monitoring of the regional
- 14 -



networks -, there is little doubt that a consistent regulatory and institutional environmental management
framework has been established and will not be reverted.
Sustainability of the mining sector in Argentina. The sustainability of the project achievements will also
depend on the sustainability of mining in Argentina. The "boom" of the period 1995-2000, with a peak in
exploration investments and number of foreign companies active in Argentina, has passed. Production and
export revenues seem to have reached a plateau (see Fig. 3). Also, investors are probably cautious with
respect to the evolution of the political situation. However, while a number ofjunior companies did not
survive the high risk financing crisis of 1997-1998 (see Section 4.1), all major mining companies are
presently active in Argentina (i.a. BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto, Barrick, MIM Holdings, Anglo Gold, Anglo
Base Metals and others). Three new large mines have started operations since 1997 (Bajo de la Alumbrera,
copper and gold, Salar del Hombre Muerto, lithium; Cerro Vanguardia, gold and silver). Also, serious,
small to mid-size silver and gold producers are now at the feasibility stage for a number of high-grade
deposits in southern Patagonia. (i.a. Martha, Esquel, El Puma/Cerro Saavedra, Manantial/Espejo,
Martinetas). Operating mines are investing in expansion (Alumbrera) or modernization (Aguilar, zinc lead,
silver and tin) of their facilities. If the present price of gold is maintained, Barrick could take a decison to
go ahead with the major projects of Veladero (gold and silver, a US$600 million investment) and Pascua
Lama (gold and silver, a US$ 1.25 billion investment) as announced recently. Both these deposits, as well
as the huge El Pachon copper project, all located on the Chilean-Argentine border, would benefit of the
Mining Treaty signed between both countries. The floating of the peso will also bring exploration and
development costs in line with Argentina's neighbours and further increase the competitivness of the
country. If the government continues to honor the tax stability agreement under the Mining Investment law,
and considering the regulatory and institutional frameworks established under the sector reform so far, the
conditions for a continued development for mining production seem positive.
However, while the establishment of conditions to sector growth is a pre-requisite, the real sustainability of
mining in Argentina will be measured by the contribution each and every mine will make to the
development of the local and regional communities and to their economies. Issues related to revenuelbenefit
sharing, to social participatory processes and to mine closure need to be addressed.
Argentina - Mining Exports Value (US$ Million)
1000
800
600$5
400
200
0                   n
1991  1993  1995  1997  1999  2001
Fig.3
6.2 Transition arrangement to regutlar operations:
At the provincial, and in a number of cases at the federal level as well, the project focused its activities on
the development of on-the-job capacities and procedures directly linked to the fulfillment of core functions
related to the application of laws and regulations, functions which will continue beyond closure. In that
aspect, the transition from project supported to regular operations has been smooth and work plans are
well-established for the long term. In addition, a detailed operation plan was prepared for each of the
- 15 -



provinces, including activities, maintenance of the infrastructure and budget. However, as discussed under
6.1, arrangements remain to be made to ensure the full financial sustainability of all functions in all
provinces.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
Since the project could benefit from the successful preparation and implementation of PASMA-I, all
activities related to identification, preparation, and appraisal were completed within a short time span of
three months.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, including procurement and financial
management, environmental, sociological, and consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies. In addition,
during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good
working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was, on balance, satisfactory. Since the
Bank had allocated sufficient budget resources, the project was adequately supervised. Over the three year
project implementation, there were eleven supervision missions. Supervision teams included specialists in
environment, mining economics, mining law, private sector development, institutional development and
procurement.
The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation. Aide-Memoires
were regularly prepared and transmitted. The PSRs realistically rated the performance of the project both
in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in
implementation occurred, the Bank was able to define concrete steps and a timetable for putting the
program on track. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The
quality of advice and the follow-up on advice and agreed actions was adequate. The staff also showed
flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in implementation. External consultants were used for
specific aspects of certain project components. Bank staff worked closely with the government and the
implementing agencies and had good relationship.
However, while policy and technical aspects, including procurement, were closely monitored, the team
would have benefited from including a financial management specialist as a regular member of the
supervision missions at an early stage. This would have helped to identify and address sooner the type of
issue described under Section 5.4.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the preparation
stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered
the adequacy of design and all major aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional,
- 16 -



environmental and sociological factors, including stakeholder comniitment. The government officials and
staff of the implementing agencies both at the federal and provincial levels worked closely with the Bank's
project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance was generally satisfactory. Commitment of the government
was shown by the impressive continuity in both policy implementation and staffing of the institutions and
the UCP, since the preparation phase of PASMA-I in January 1994. The government also took the
initiative in requesting the preparation of a repeater operation extended to all Provinces which did not
participate in PASMA-I. With respect to the Provinces, their commitment to implement the policy and
institutional reforms which were supported by the project was reflected by their signing of the "Federal
Agreement for the Implementation of the Second Mining Project". Ownership by the Provinces was
indicated by the seriousness of their participation in the preparation of the project, including a four day
workshop dealing with in-depth analysis of sector reforms to be supported by the project.
The government commitment was consistent until a new administration came to power in 2000 and was
less so thereafter. As mentioned earlier, the new administration was more centralist, and, as a result, the
relationship between the federal and provincial governments was strained, which led to a slowing down of
the pace of project implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the SSM was, on balance, (moderately) satisfactory. The capacity of the Federal
Undersecretariat of Mines (SSM) was satisfactory on technical andoperational terms.In the initial stages of
implementation, the federal PCU was well organized and effective in dealing with procurement,
disbursement, progress reports, maintaining proper records and audits of the project. However, as
mentioned in the first Mining TA ICR, on administrative and financial levels, the capacity deteriorated in
paralell with the worsening financial situation of the country, and with respect to financial management, the
performance was unsatisfactory.
The capacity of provincial implementing agencies varied from province to province, but was on balance
satisfactory. The fact that all provinces followed a single model made the implementation easier.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory during project preparation, satisfactory as well
during implementation from an operational perspective, but unsatisfactory regarding financial mangement.
8. Lessons Learned
Several of the lessons learned have already been included in the ICR of the first Mining Sector
Development TA project (ICR No. 23368). Only those particularly relevant to the achievements of the
second project or additional ones are included here below:
* Creating the right enabling environment is very important. The major lesson of the project is that, by
creating the right enabling environment and responsive institutions to interface with the private sector,
is a necessary condition which would result in a positive response for investment making a significant
contribution to the country in terms of mining exploration and development (but not per se sufficient,
as other extemal factors such as intemational commodities prices are influencing too).
*   Integral approach to sector development. The Argentina mining TA provides yet another example of
the importance to approach sector reform in an integrated, instead of a piecemeal way. This lesson
- 17 -



applies both to the project as well as to the component levels, as discussed under the development of
mining rights and environmental management capacity, respectively.
*   Government commitment is essential to success. The success of the project was mainly due to the
continued political support from the highest levels of the government, both at the federal and provincial
levels.Another key factor for the project's success was the consistency of the sector reform with the
general economic reform.
* Consistency in the political agenda is a key factor for the project's success. In a country like
Argentina with a strong federal system, consistency in the political agenda of federal govemment and
provincial governments is a crucial factor for the project's success. By signing an upfront agreement
between the federal government and provincial governments, the project could maintain continuity in
sector policy - and project implementation - despite changes in administration both at the federal level
and the provincial levels. In that sense, the example of Argentina could be applied to other federal
countries or to countries where decentralization constitute an important component of the development
agenda.
*   A well-defined interface ensures smooth project implementation. Establishing a well-defined
coordination between the federal and provincial implementing units, strong leadership and active
participation of provincial implementing agencies and stability are also important factors for a project's
success.
*   The geodetic and environmental (and geological under Pasma I) data infrastructure developed under
the project is useful not only for the mineral sector development but even for other areas like
infrastructure development (road construction, etc.), national hazards mitigation measures and land use
planning in general. By taking an integrated approach - and with better coordination - other agencies
are able to make use of this information for their needs.
*   Sustainability ofpublic mining management functions. Sustainability of some of the project's
institutional achievement might be jeopardized by the adverse macroeconomic situation of the country.
However, core administrative functions - e.g. administration of mining rights and environmental
permitting - are, as a rule, sustainable after closure of the project. Such situation does not apply, in
general, to support and information activities related to an improved management and monitoring of the
sector performance - e.g. mapping and monitoring; information systems -, which tend to be less
sustainable, in particular in the case of a continued economic crisis. An obvious factor is the
availability of resources and lower costs activities would be more likely supported when a choice of
scarce resources allocation has to be made. However, other important factors are also involved which
would control sustainability likeliness of functions, such as whether it is defined in a law and the
responsibility to fullfil it clearly attributed to an agency (see Table 2 below). Another important factor
is the perception by budget allocation decision makers of the importance of the function. For instance,
in many cases, the geological data infrastructure is - wrongly enough - not perceived as being a
pre-requisite to a country's development goals achievements. An important lesson to enhance the
likeliness of functions sustainability is to deal with the issues at the earliest possible stage of the reform
and (i) to identify very clearly the mandate and corresponding key functions and responsibilities of the
PMIs; (ii) to incorporate both mandates and functions within the legal/regulatory framework and (iii)
identify reliable source(s) of funds (e.g. a percentage of mining cadastral fees - as in Bolivia, Ecuador
and Peru - and/or of royalties) and specifically allocate these funds to sustain the identified key
functions.
- 18-



Operational costs
Lower                 Higher
- Cadastral registration  - Geological Data  More Likely
Yes      and administration    Infrastructure      Sustainable
Mandate and             - Environmental
function defined          permitting
in a law         No     - Information systems  - Environmental and
social monitoring   Less Likely
I___ _ __ __ _   _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ Sustainable
More Likely            Less Likely
Sustainable           Sustainable
Table 2.
*   Social strategy. The preparation and implementation of mining TA programs require the design of a
consistent social strategy, anchored in a sector development policy, in order to clearly identify the
goals and concrete outputs, and fully integrate social issues. The social strategy should include the
definition of actions to be carried out jointly by government authorities, civil society organizations,
companies and, during its implementation time, the project. The ultimate goal would be to optimize
stakeholder participation and consensus with respect to sector development objectives and outcomes,
and consequently ensure a more sustainable and improved contribution of mining to society.
*   Continuity of Bank involvement is important to achieve sustainable results. The continuous WB
participation in the Argentina sector reform since inception and through the main implementation phase
has certainly be an important factor to success. In that sense, the abrupt termination of formal support
- particularly considering the crisis which coincided with project closure - may consitute a factor of non
sustainability of some of the results. The support of the Bank after TA project closure should include a
continued dialogue at the sector level, as the provision of advice and the role of facilitator played by the
Bank are often felt as a contribution as important as the provision of financial support
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Detailed contribution from the Borrower can be found in Annex 8
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
:Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Encourage private sector investment in
mining and ensure it contributed to a
sustainable economic and social
development in particpabng provinces:
* Improved enabling environment for sector                                * Mining production has increased both a the
development:                                                              national level and within the Pasma II region.
- increased mining investment in participating                            Estimated figures for the Pasma II region are:
provinces by - 20% (1996 level:US$56                                      - Mining investments: US$75 million (est.
million) by year 2001                                                     2001)
- maintained/increased exploration                                        - Mining exploration investments: US$25
expenditures in participating provinces (1996                             million (est. 2001)
level: US$28 million after the end of the                                 - Mining production US$112 million (metallic)
project.                                                                  and US$260 (non-metallic) (2000)
- Exports: US$130 million (est. 2000)
l Improved consultative procedures among                                  Parbally achieved: consultation between
stakeholders for decision making (private                                 federal and provincial govemments has been
sector, public authorities and local, provincial                          institutionalized (COFEMIN). It has improved
and/or national communities) at the end of                                also between companies and authorities,
the project (EoP)                                                         through a formalization and unification of
companies chambers. Awareness of the
importance of social participatory processes
as part of mining development was
increased.
^ Improved knowledge and/or awareness of                                  * Achieved. The improvement of existing
modem technology, environmental                                           (cadastral) and development of new
management and other matters (i.e. fiscal) at                             (envimonmental) funcfions on the basis of
EOP                                                                       modem technology and concepts, integrated
to the daily workflow of DPMs' staff, has
resulted in a significant improvement of
knowledge and awareness. Fiscal: >1,000
persons (provincial authorities, companies
and students) participated to the fiscal
training.
2. Extend the mining sector policy, regulatory
and institutional reform to all parficipating
provinoes
* Signing of the Federal Agreement for the                                'Achieved. The 'mining" provinces had
Implementation of the PASMA II Project                                    signed about 4 months AE. However i took
(Second Mining Development TA Project) by                                 about 12 months AE to get the signature of
17 Provinces six months after effecfiveness                               all provinces
(AE)
* All participating Provinces have adopted the                              Achieved. At EoP, all provinces have
reformed sector regulatory framework at EoP                               adopted and are applying the reformed sector
regulatory framework. Procedures are now
basically similar from Missiones to Tierra del
Fuego.
^ The unified mining cadastre system is                                    ^ Achieved. A unified mining rights
established and operational in all parficipating                          management sytsem ("SRM') has been
Provinces 21 months AE                                                    established and is operational in all Argentine
Provinces, improving the conditions for
property rights security of tenure, comerstone
of mining investment and development. This
goal was achieved 33 months AE, instead of
21.
^ UGAPs and environmental management                                      ^ Achieved. UGAPs were created and in
system established and operational in all                                 capacity to process ElAs, grant
participating provinces 21 months AE                                      environmental permits and monitor the sector
performance. This goal was achieved about
- 20 -



24 months AE, instead of 21. However,
continuity of sampling the regional monitoring
networks (not part of the UGAP functon
according to the Law) is not ensured.
* Information management system                                           * Achieved. Systems installed and operational
established and operational in all participatng                           at EoP (33 months AE) instead of 21 months
provinces 21 months AE                                                    AE. But sustainability varying from province
to province.
* Trained personnel in all participating                                  * Achieved through intensive on4he-job
provinces: land, environmental, fiscal and                                training, supported by specific courses,
information management at EOP.                                            workshops and seminars.
* Mining funds' and dedicated budget                                      * Work in progress. Provincial budgets
established in all particpating provinces                                 ensure the futfillment of the core functions:
mineral rights and environmental permitting.
However, the set up of a more reliable
mechanism, drawing from fees for services
provided by DPMs could not be finalized.
Output Indicators:
,, IndcatorlMatrix         ,       Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate,
A.1 No backlog of unprocessed concession                                  A. 1 As a rule, requests for mining rights and
applications or EIS in paricipating DPMs at                               EIAtEIS reports are processed in a timely
EoP                                                                       manner; the pre-reform major mining rights
backlogs have been solved.
A.2 (a) (i) Cadastral management system                                   A.2 (a) (i) The cadastral management system
operational 21 months AE                                                  ("SRM") was operational 33, instead of 21,
months AE.
(ii) No significative procedure differences                               (ii) All provincial procedures are based on the
between Provinces at EoP                                                  "Unified Code of Procedures".
A.2 (b) >95% of mining concessions                                        A.2 (b) 100% of mining concessions have
surveyed and integrated to the mining                                     been surveyed and integrated to the geodetic
geodetc reference system 21 months AE                                     based cadastral system.
A.3.(a.) (i) Environmental permitting system                              A 3 (a) (i) Environmental permitting
operabonal 21 months AE                                                   functons/system operational about 24
months AE (instead of 21).
(ii) Baseline data in participabng Provinces                              (ii) Baseline data in partidpabng provinces
available 24 months AE                                                    were available 33 months AE (or EoP),
instead of 24.
(iii) Monitoring system operabonal 21 months                              (iii) Monitoring network were established
AE                                                                        under the baseline studies and operational 33
months AE, instead of 21. Sustainability of
operations will vary according to provinces
and respective resource
A.3 (b) (i) Socio-economic pilot baseline                                 A.3 (b) (i) Socio-economic pilot baseline
studies available 18 months AE.                                           studies were carried out in the area of
influence of Bajo de la Alumbrera
(Catamarca) and Pascua-Lama (San Juan).
Results were available 33 months AE,
ii) Consultative procedures implemented 21                                instead of 18..
months AE                                                                 (ii). Work in progress. Awareness has
increased and needs identfied. However,
regulations based procedures remain to be
drafted; and implemented.
A.4 (a) BUD system operabonal 18 months                                   A.4 (a) The 'Banco Unico de Datos", now
AE                                                                         known as "Sistema Unificado de Informacion
Minera" (SUIM) was operational about 24
months AE (varying according to provinces),
Sustainability of operations will vary
according to provinces and respective
resources.
A.A (b) Mineral markets and statistics                                    A.4 (b). Partially achieved. Statstcal
information available 21 month AE.                                        information and presentabon was
- 21 -



systematized in all provinces, and are
available through SUIM. However,
sustainability of the link between provincial
and federal units varies from province to
province.
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actualliatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
A. Policy Implementation
A. 1 Institutional Modernization and Strengthening  6.50          5.89           90.4
A.2 Unified Mining Cadastre and Registry System   18.05           9.00           49.9
A.3 Environmental Management                      14.98           8.88           59.3
A.4 Unified Mining Infornation System (BUD)        3.48           3.82          109.9
B. Project Coordination Unit                       1.79           1.07           59.9
Total Baseline Cost                               44.80          28.66
Physical Contingencies                            1.10           0.00
Price Contingencies                               0.60           0.00
Total Project Costs            46.50         28.66
Total Financing Required            46.50          28.66
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement- Method
Expenditure, Category    ICB          NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         3.60        13.00        0.00         16.60
(0.00)       (3.00)      (11.10)       (0.00)      (14.10)
2. Goods                     5.90         0.90        0.80         0.00         7.60
(5.90)       (0.90)       (0.80)      (0.00)       (7.60)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        14.60        0.70         15.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (13.00)      (0.00)      (13.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        7.00         0.00         7.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.80)       (0.00)      (4.80)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     5.90         4.50         35.40        0.70        46.50
(5.90)       (3.90)      (29.70)       (0.00)      (39.50)
-23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurerment Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB          Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost.
1. Works                       0.00          1.70          6.72         0.00          8.42
(0.00)        (1.42)        (5.68)       (0.00)        (7.10)
2. Goods                       3.24          0.68          0.43         0.00          4.35
(3.24)        (0.49)        (0.30)       (0.00)        (4.03)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00         13.11         0.36         13.47
(0.00)        (0.00)       (10.89)       (0.00)       (10.89)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          2.43         0.00          2.43
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.10)       (0.00)        (2.10)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       3.24          2.38         22.69          0.36         28.67
(3.24)        (1.91)       (18.97)       (0.00)       (24.12)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I                           I                            i Percentage of Appraisal
Component             ApE raisal-Estimate   [    Actual/Latest Estimate
.___________ _ . Bank  'Govt.  CoF.     Bank-     Govt.    CoF.    Bank   Got.    CoF.
A. Policy Implementation
A.1 Institutional       5.80      0.90               4.79      1.10              82.6  122.2
Modernization and
Strengthening
A.2 Unified Mining      16.00     2.80               7.64      1.36              47.8   48.6
Cadastre and Registry
System
A.3Environmental        13.80     1.80               7.78      1.10              56.4   61.1
Management
A.4 Unified Mining      3.00      0.60               3.33      0.49             111.0   81.7
Information System (BUD)
B. Project Coordination  0.90     0.90               0.58      0.49              64.4   54.4
Unit
Under "Actual", the Govt. figures include the US$2.45 million to be refunded to the Bank (see Section 5.4).
-24-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
September/97                4   1 Planner, I Mining Economist,
IMining Specialist, I
Environmental Specialist
November/97                 I   I Mining Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
December/97                 4   1 Mining Economist, 1
Mining Specialist, I Country
Economist, I Environmental
Specialist
Supervision
April/98                    3   1 Mining Economist, I
Mining Specialist, 1
Environmental Specialist
July/98                     3   1 Mining Economist, I Mining
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist
October/98                  I   I Mining Specialist               S             S
December/98                 4   1 Mining Economist, I Mining      S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist
April/99                    4   1 Mining Economist, I Mining      S             S
Specialist, 2 Sector Managers
(FPSI)
October/99                  4    1 Mining Economist, I Mining     S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist
December/99                 I   I Mining Specialist               S             S
July/00                     3   1 Mining Economist, I Mining      S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist
August/00                   2   1 Mining Specialist, I            S             S
Procurement Specialist
December/00                 4    1 Mining Economist, I Mining     S             S
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist
May/01                      I   I Mining Specialist               S             S
ICR
August/2001                 4    1 Mining Economist, I            S             S
Mining Specialist, I
Manager, I Financial
ManagementSpecialist
December 2001               2    1 Environmental Specialist, I    S             S
Mining Specialist
- 26 -



May/02                       I    I Mining Specialist                S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  [                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                15.4                        75.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                      7.5                        38.5
Supervision                               85.1                       341.2
ICR                                       12.4                        52.3
Total                                    120.4                       507.2
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Sector Policies                     O H  *SUOM O N O NA
O Physical                            OH   *SUOM      ON   ONA
L Financial                           O H  * SU O M   O N O NA
I Institutional Development           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
FII Environmental                     O H *SUOM       O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM       O N O NA
L Gender                        O H  OSUOM      O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N * NA
LI Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
E Lending                                          OHS@*S       Ou    OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
El Overall                                         OHS OS       0 U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
fI Preparation                                     OHS *@S      O u    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS I S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       O u    0 HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Sectoral Environmental Assessment (December 1997)
2. Project Appraisal Document for Argentina Mining Development Technical Assistance Project dated
June 29, 1995 (Report No. P-6617-AR)
3. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports
4. Project Progress Reports
5. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project
6. Borrower's Evaluation report, dated December 28, 2001.
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Summary Report
This document summarizes the evaluation of the Second Mining Sector Development Technical Assistance
Project (PASMA II: "Segundo Proyecto de Asistencia al Sector Minero Argentino") prepared by the
Argentina federal Under-secretariat of Mines. Part of the background information, comments and lessons
leamed are similar to those included in the report referred to the evaluation of the PASMA I project.
The reform of the Argentina mining sector was initiated in 1992, with the support of the World Bank
(WB), and by 1993 the policy and legal frameworks had already been modernized and considerably
improved. To support and implement the reform in terms of institutional capacity building of the sector
federal and provincial public agencies, the Government of Argentina requested in 1994 a loan to the WB,
which became effective in 1995. This project, PASMA I, involved the federal Undersecretariat of Mines
(SSM) and the Argentine Geological and Mining Survey (SEGEMAR) and six pilot Provinces (Catamarca,
La Rioja, Mendoza, Salta, San Juan and San Luis), located in the mineral rich but, from a mining point of
view, poorly developed NW of Argentina. The reason to limit the provincial scope was to test the selected
modemization methodology, before extending the experience to the rest of the country
Considering the successful experience of PASMA I, the Govemment requested in 1997 a second loan to
the WB to extend to the whole country the development of capacities and infrastructure needed to put into
practice the reform.. The 17 Provinces that participated to PASMA n1 are: Buenos Aires, Chaco, Chubut,
C6rdoba, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Fortnosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro, Santa Cruz,
Santa Fe, Santiago del Estero, Tierra del Fuego and Tucuman.
Background
Ten years ago, in spite of a favorable geology and well-established mining neighbors such as Brazil,
Bolivia and Chile, there were only a few mines, most of them small-scale operations in the non-metallic
(industrial minerals) sector. In 1992, with support of the World Bank, the Govemment of Argentina
assessed the mining sector's deficiencies and the country's geological potential. The sector's historical pooi
performance was due to a number of factors, including:
* Long term macroeconomic instability;
* Interventionist role of Govemment in the sector;
* Weak administration by provincial governments;
* Conflicts between the Federal and Provincial authorities regarding mining development policy;
* Huge differences regarding regulations and enforcement between provinces; for example, different type,
and rates of royalties;
* Difficult access by private investors to large potential mining areas held by federal or provincial state
agencies;
* Outdated legal frameworks and cumbersome, unclear or discretionary concession and cadastral
procedures;
* Lack of security of tenure for mining rights;
* Outdated and inefficient institutional framework; and,
* Lack of a basic geological information.
Objectives of the reform.
Based on the sector diagnostic, as well as on the recognition of the worldwide application of the marke
economy and of the globalization of the industry, in 1993 the Govemment formulated a mining policy ir
line with the broader national economic policy reform-initiated in 1990-and started a reform strategy foi
environmentally and socially sound private mining development. The strategy aimed to:
-31 -



* Encourage private investments and stability, while avoiding earlier wasteful promotion schemes or
subsidies;
* Ensure that the sector contributes to sustainable economic and social regional development;
* Promote consensus regarding mining policy between federal and provincial authorities, through the
creation of a Federal Mining Council;
* Better define the respective responsibilities of the provincial and federal mining authorities and of the
private sector; divest state owned mining interests and restructure and modernize the sector agencies -
emphasizing the role of the State as a regulator - and improving access to mineral land;
*  Modemize the legal framework by amending the Mining Code and promulgating complementary
legislation, establish procedures and non-discretionary administration for the granting of mining rights
and enforcement of environmental regulations, and homogenize regulations and enforcement across
provinces; and,
* Create an autonomous geological service to produce the required base line data and establish an easily
accessed nationwide information network.
The objectives and content of the reform, as well as its implementation process, were designed on the basis
of a policy framework agreed between Provinces and the Central government, and formalized under the
1993 Mining Federal Agreement, and with the support of most stakeholders. The close involvement and
participation of the provinces authorities was a pre-requisite to success, as they are the constitutional
owners of the mineral resources and responsible for their administration.
Implementation and achievement of objectives
The project design was based on the extension to the 17 Provincial Mining Directorates (DPMs) of the
Provinces involved in PASMA II of 1) the unified regulatory framework; 2) the strengthening of the
institutional; 3) the improvement of the administration of mining rights, 4) the development and set-up of an
environmental management system, and 5), the set-up of a publicly available information system. In
addition, studies related to the improvement of knowledge regarding socio-economic, cultural and
environmental impacts of mining operations were included to be carried out in any of the Argentine
Provinces.
Regulatory framework One of the main achievement under PASMA II was the unification of provincial
regulations and procedures regarding the management of mining rights and environmental permitting.
Regulations and application norms for environmental management had already been developed under
PASMA I, but their adoption and enforcement by all Provinces was completed under PASMA II. In
addition, under the umbrella of the project, all provincial mining authorities (six from PASMA I and 17
from PASMA II) have established unified mining procedures for the granting and management of mining
rights.
As already mentioned under the PASMA I evaluation, the current legal framework has proved to be
efficient in attracting private investment and supporting the development of environmentally sound mining
activities. Since reform inception, nine laws were prepared and passed by Congress. Yhe most important
ones include: the Investment Law (1993), improving investment conditions within the sector and providing
fiscal stability; the Federal Mining Agreement Law (1993), defining the consensus and commitment
between Provinces and Nation regarding sector development policies and management; the Environmental
Law for Mining Activities (1995), incorporated as part of the Mining Code and establishing clear rules for
investors regarding EIAs, norms and procedures; and the Mining Treaty (2001) with Chile, setting the rules
for the development of the many ore deposits lying close to the border of both countries.
Institutional capacity development. The project completed the modemization of the 17 provincial mining
agencies in terms of streamlining the organizations with the new functions, introducing modem
technologies, training staff and improving infrastructure and equipment.
- 32 -



Institutional strengthening traditionally constitutes a challenging process and the main constraints included
(i) the traditional lack of trust from the agencies staff with respect to the federal government's as well as (ii)
resistance due to the fear that such reform would be linked to staff reduction. However, the demonstration
effect of PASMA I, together with the implementation of a methodology based on the first project
experience - in-depth dialogue from an early stage to promote ownership with the reform objectives,
combined with the timely and coordinated implementation of the different components - design, training,
infrastructure, set-up of operational procedure and follow-up - strongly reduced the mentioned constraints
as well as implementation time, and were key factors towards the changes of attitude already achieved in
the PASMA I provincial agencies: from defensive to service oriented and more efficient sector
administration. As under PASMA I, flexibility in adjusting the overall institutional model to the customary
and, to some extent, regulatory particularities of the different provinces has been an important factor to
success.
Unified mining cadastre system. The precise positioning of properties, transparent granting and
cancellation procedures and public availability of the related information enhance security of tenure and
represent fundamental conditions to attract investments as well as for the orderly development and sound
management of the mining sector.
Based on the same scheme implemented under PASMA I, the scheduled mining cadastre works have been
completed in the 17 Provinces. They included (i) the extension of a complementary mining geodetic
network, linked to and strengthening the national network; (ii) location and GPS measurement of all mining
properties; and (iii) set up of a computerized mining concession granting and management system, using
off-the-shelf software applications. The relevant information is available on the internet. All involved staff
have been trained in GPS technology and use of GIS and of related databases, both at workshops and on
the job, using the infrastructure and equipment purchased under the project. The application of the
implementation lessons learned under PASMA I contributed to strongly reduce the expected costs of the
works and, in most cases, works difficulties (of the four firms contracted to carry out the works, three
delivered the expected quality products on schedule; the fourth one also complied but with delays). Key
lessons learned under PASMA I do apply as well to this project: (i) a critical prerequisite consists in the
detailed inventory, clean-up and updating of the existing cadastral information, before starting the set up of
a new system; (ii) computerized cadastral management systems improve the strict and transparent
application of the mining law and its procedures and enhance secuiity of tenure; (iii) a particularly
systematic planning effort and a rigorous supervision of contracted works to be carried out in such remote
and difficult terrains as the Andes reduces the risk of failure in location calculation or building up of
reference benchmarks.
Mining environmental management system. The regulations and norms to enforce the Environmental Law
for Mining Activities (1995) have been enacted in all seventeen provinces. Seventeen provincial
environmental management units (UGAPs), responsible for the evaluation and approval of ELAs, as well as
for the monitoring and the enforcement of the law and regulations, were established. Within the PASMA II
area, the environmental authority is shared between environmental and mining public provincial institutions
in 10 of the Provinces; in 7 of the Provinces, the UGAP respond to the DPM. However, in all cases, the
review of ELAs involves in all provinces the participation of authorities from other involved sectors.
Environmental baseline studies in selected mining areas of every seventeen provinces were completed, and
the data input into a GIS based information system, available through intemet. Monitoring environmental
programs to be carried out periodically by the UGAPs have been set up, the data entered in the databases.
These monitoring components should provide an efficient tool, quite unique so far in Argentina, to assess
the sector environmental perfommance. However, they are probably the most sensitive to financial crisis and
their sustainability will depend more than other systems (including the environmental permitting
- 33 -



procedures) established under the project on the availability of sufficient resources.
In addition, as part of the PASMA II project, activities and studies on the socio-economic, cultural and
environmental impacts of large scale mining operations on communities have been carried out in the
Catamarca and San Juan provinces. A methodology has been developed regarding (i) how to assess such
impacts and (ii) how to approach from the point of view of the different stakeholders the development of
such projects.
Important lessons include: (i) the development of an environmental legal and institutional framework is an
important pre-requisite for mining investment as it established clear rules; it has been widely accepted by
all stakeholders and contributes to the development of the sector without environmental conflicts; (ii) to
prevent environmental conflicts and impacts, it is critical to involve all stakeholders (state, private sector,
the communities with mining activities and NGOs), with clearly defined roles and methodologies; and (iii)
the dissemination of information and communication with the involved communities is critical for the
development of mining operations and their contribution to local development..
Unified mining information system (SUIM). The project completed the design and set-up of the SUIM
linking, through intra-/intemet, federal and provincial databases, such as legal, geological, cadastral,
environmental, statistics, promotion and others, related when relevant to GIS based on a unified digital map
of Argentina, developed in cooperation with IGM. This component provides an excellent tool for land
management, including but not limited to mining development, to the government, to the private sector and
to all sectors of the society. While transferred from the project to the respective authorities, SUIM requires
a strong coordination which could not be fully consolidated during implementation. The operation of this
system might also be more sensitive than others developed under the project to the availability or not of
sufficient resources. It represents an essential factor for success in attracting investors, achieve
transparency and sustainability of mining sector development.
Support of the World Bank
As under PASMA I and since reform inception, The World Bank (WB) has played a critical and positive
role in the implementation and success of the mining reform in Argentina. It provided an in-depth
assessment of the mineral sector at start, on the basis of which the federal and provincial authorities could
design an effective development policy. The WB then provided policy, technical and financial assistance to
implement the sector reform in an effective way, in a constant and open dialogue with the implementing
agencies, with the Ministry of Economy, the Chief of Cabinet Office, the provincial authorities,
representatives of the private sector and of the civil society. Visits to the DPMs and meetings with
representatives of COFEMIN were held during the supervision mission and contributed to build the
necessary trust.
Performance of the federal and provincial authorities
The successive federal and provincial governments have been supportive of the sector development policy
and reform, and, as a consequence, of the project implementation continuity. Such support is a key factor in
the successful achievement of the reform, and of the PASMA I project objectives. The deterioration of the
economic situation during the last couple of years of project implementation resulted in a lack of
availability of counterpart funds, and has affected the pace of activities and the scope of a few components
- mainly the geographical extension of environmental and socio-economic baseline surveys. Contrary to the
case of PASMA I, this situation did impact negatively the outputs of the project. The impact of the present
crisis on the sustainability of some of the achievements, such as the seasonal environmental network
monitoring and the maintenance of the information system, remains to be seen.
Conclusions
- 34 -



The success of the Argentina mining sector reform is based on several factors, including, (i) a continuous
political support from all stakeholders; (ii) the initial in-depth analysis of the sector problems; and (iii) the
selected approach integrating the legal, institutional and information infrastructure aspects.
At the level of the project as such, success was due to (i) a strong link and support between the political
authorities and the teams responsible for the coordination and implementation of the activities; (ii) clear and
concrete objectives and tasks easy to monitor; (iii) efficient planning, management and monitoring; and (iv)
open and constant dialogue between stakeholders.
The main issue for the future is related to the sustainability of the project achievements and to the needed
continuity to further deepen the reform. A most important requisite will be a strong political support which
would allow a clear leadership and consensus based actions through plans and programs to maintain and
continue to develop the changes initiated under the project. As part of such plan and programs, is the
definition of reliable financial mechanisms to support critical functions of public mining agencies. The
completion of the mining code reform is also strongly related to this issue. Most important would be to
continue the work initiated under PASMA to develop activities aiming at improving the integration of
mining projects to the socio-economic development of communities, including, among others, the
development and implementation of improved consultation and participatory mechanisms, community
driven development linked to mining, mine closure mechanisms, coordination with other sectors (e.g.
infrastructure development and others) in order to optimize the economic benefits from the mining sector
development, particularly at the local and regional levels. We express our wishes that the World Bank can
continue to provide its support and help our country to deepen the social aspects of the mining reform.
Buenos Aires, December 21, 2002
Dr. Carlos Saravia Frias
Undersecretary of Mines
- 35 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 29348
20'     70          BOl0VIA                 0                                 50              20'-
lPARAGUAY
I~~ f                    .Sl                              BRAZILq 
ODSolloydo
SA LTAJ 
\",PFormosa I'
'1*t 0Tu(pm6n     1CHACO "NIl
0 14   TUCUMAN   TIAGO   Resistencioa  osadas   f
/      1_ {8  \I 05 sSnltiogo del stero  _  orrientes\r  
/ tt  '    l (03Colamorco  1      1       t    
LoR /     IO I'ESTERO            J  9\o/
_ J      Lo RiojSa %',  .'_ |-      i C 
RIOJA\         'jSANTA I ../
u33  ,3  r SAN \  /       *  . fE ,) -                                              3
JUAN        '    C6rdoba /SFE  .                                                30
(   Son Ju'6s           'q barn
\... A ORDOBA6\
ENTRE
'ir Mendoza\  San j             RIOS 3';'X
* ~~~~o~    *IN                    URGAY
\SAN'
U~~~~~~~I
o  0   A         \~~~~LUI s              Buenos Aires 
, MENDOZA      .            U      r                            A 
-   \ 5' SantoBRosBUENOS                                  T I C
U    1- \>           LA     !     AIRES
( t     1    PAM PA
(NEUQUEN1 (   .                                                      A
\ Neuqu                                 -:N-
-' RIO
40      ('            NEGRO     9iedm                    4AE            I
w;2, v  _ 1 ,0ARGE-NTINA
Rowson
, >.CHUB UT .-.
C                                              0 , U,PROVINCE CAPITALS
,  b   5NATIONAL CAPITAL
c*  t-..-.'                    '                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SANTA
a (z- CRUZ                      FALKLAND ISLANDS
(MA LVINASJ
<75.           io Gallegos        ,                   0 100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
0NP              L~~ I I I I I 
-       A IZhI5~ A                   I    I     I 
Wd$0 Ep   MSANVTffEUK W1WA4WWR  0  100  200  300  400 Miles
Th*ILNL$
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
s  A,,  TIERRA        on this mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group. ony
-. * DEL FUEGO            judgment on the legalstatus of any territory, or ony endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
70-            ^                   60                                50'
I        w  .  n   ,  ,  ,         I                                  I               1
APRIL 19.6









Report No.:        24362
Type:      t



