Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17227-AR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$39.5 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND MINING DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JANUARY 20, 1998
Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Management Unit (LCSFP)
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit (LCC7C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR)



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 12. 1998)
Currency Unit = Argentina Peso (Arg$)
Arg$1 = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFM         Federal Mining Agreement
BUD         Unified Data Bank
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
COFEMIN    Federal Mining Council
DPM         Provincial Mining Directorate
EIMS        Environmental Information and Management System
EIS         Environmental Impact Statement
GPS         Global Positioning System
IDTA        Institutional Development Technical Assistance Operation
MINPRO      Mining Information and Promotion Program
MIS         Management Information System
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
UGAN              National Environmental Management Unit
UGAP        Provincial Environmental Management Unit
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PASMA       Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
PMI         Public Mining Institution
SEA         Sector Environmental Assessment
SEGEMAR   Argentine Geological and Mining Survey
SICM        Federal Secretariat of Industry, Mining and Commerce
SNIM        National Mining Information System
SPM         Provincial Mining Secretariat
SSM         Federal Undersecretariat of Mining
TA          Technical Assistance
UCP         Project Coordinating Unit
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Myrna Alexander
Acting Sector Director: Krishna Challa



Argentina
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performnance indicators ...................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ........................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............                      ..................3
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................4
1. Project components ............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforrns supported by the project .....................................5
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................6
D. Project Rationale ................................................................6
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................... .................7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................................8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................           8
E. Summary Project Analyses ..................................................................8
1. Economic ............................                         ,.8
2. Financial ...9.........................9
3. Technical ............................. 0
4. Institutional ............................ 10
5. Social ............................ 10
6. Environmental assessment ............................                                                            10
7. Participatory approach .............................11
F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                       11
1. Sustainability ......................                                                                            11
2. Critical risks ......................                                                                            11
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                                                            12



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                      12
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                                12
2. Other ..................                                                    12
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                              13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                             13
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .14
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .17
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .22
Annex 4.      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .24
Annex 5.  Financial Summary .27
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .28
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .30
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements .31
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .32
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .33
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .34
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File .35
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits .36
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance .39
Map



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page I
Country: Argentina                                  Project Title: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Argentina
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Department
Date: January 12, 1998                               Task Team Leader: Gotthard Walser
Country Director: Myma Alexander                     Sector Acting Director: Krishna Challa
Project ID: AR-PE-55477  Sector: Mining              Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [  Credit      [  Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 39.5
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify: US Dollar
Grace period (years): 5          [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                   4.0                3.0              7.0
IBRD                                                        10.5               29.0             39.5
Total          14.5              32.0             46.5
Borrower: Argentine Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Federal Undersecretariat of Mines (SSM) in the Ministry of Economy, Public Works and Services
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1998       1999       2000
Annual      2.1       29.8        7.6
Cumulative      2.1       31.9       39.5
Project implementation period: 2 years Expected effectiveness date: 4/01/1998    Expected closing date: 9/30/2000
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 2
Country: Argentina                                          Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project is a repeater of a successful on-going operation, the Mining Development Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 3927-AR). Its main purpose is to extend the institutional capacity building
components regarding administration of mining rights, environmental management and information
management to the 17 Provinces which are not participating in the present project.
The Project Development Objectives of the proposed operation are identical to those of the on-going
project: to develop and support, through institutional development T.A., the Federal and provincial
governments' policy, regulatory and institutional reforms which encourage the expansion of private
investment in mining in an environmentally sound way. It will help to build the provincial capacities for
efficient administration of mining rights and environmental management, develop the understanding of
and the capacity to address social impacts from mining and link the Provinces to the National Mining
Information Network.
Key indicators:
1. Encourage private sector investment in mining and ensure it contributes to a sustainable economic and
social development in participating provinces:
a) Improved enabling environment for sector development:
b) Improved consultative procedures among stakeholders for decision making (private sector,
public authorities, and local, provincial and/or national communities)
c) Improved knowledge and/or awareness of modem technology, environmental management and
others matters (i.e. fiscal)
2. Extend the mining sector policy, regulations and institutional reform to all participating provinces
a) Signing of the Federal Agreement for the Implementation of the PASMAa II Project (PASMA
II Agreement) by 17 provinces
b) All participating Provinces have adopted the reformed sector regulatory framework
c) The unified mining cadastre system is established and operational in all participating Provinces
d) The UGAPs and the environmental management system are established and operational in all
participating provinces
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16505-AR   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 15, 1997
The proposed project supports the following objectives of the Argentina CAS:
(i) Enhance social development, including poverty alleviation and human resource development: the
project would improve the conditions to develop private sector led mining activities in, ia, regions where
mining is one of the few feasible options for economic growth and help to increase income-generating
opportunities, either at the mine sites or as a spin-off effect within the region (see for example the Bajo de
la Alumbrera case in Catamarca). The socio-economic program included in the project would help to
optimize the benefits from mining activities to local communities over the long term.
(ii) Improve the performance and institutional capacity of government, particularly subnational
governments, to deliver key social, infrastructure and environmental services: the project will allocate
most of the resources for institutional development to provincial public mining institutions, including
particularly the environmental protection agencies, as a basis for the sound and sustainable development
a PASMA (Proyecto de Apoyo al Sector Minero Argentino) is the name used in Argentina for the Mining
Development Technical Assistance Project. PASMA or PASMA I refer to the first project and PASMA II refers to
this second operation.



Project Appraisal Docunent                                                                Page 3
Country: Argentina                                             Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
of the mining industry. This includes, inter alia, improved administration, rationalization of staff and
divestiture of remaining state provincial interests in mining. It will contribute to widen and to better link
federal and provincial sector activities as well as to deepen the reforms. With respect to environment, it
will extend to the whole country the provision of environmental safeguards and support for sustainable
development of the sector. Environmental baseline studies would also contribute to improve the
management of water resources, particularly in areas where it represents a scarce resource.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government's mining sector policy is in line with the broader economic policy and is formulated by
the Federal Mining Undersecretariat (SSM) at the Ministry of Economy, Public Works and Services. In
the past years SSM has resolutely pursued sector reform and its development, in close cooperation with
the provincial governments, which administer mining rights according to the Argentine Constitution. In
addition, SSM develops the country's geological and mining sector data bases and provides support to the
provincial administrations. With support from the Bank, the Government in 1993 and 1994 assessed
sector deficiencies and the country's significant geological potential (see the Argentina Mining Sector
Review - Report No. I 1 704-AR, 1993; and the MoP for the Mining Development Technical Assistance
Project - Report No. P-6617-AR, 1995). The sector's historical poor performance was due to (i) long term
macroeconomic instability, (ii) Government's interventionist role in the sector, (iii) weak administration
by provincial governments, (iv) difficult access by private investors to large potential mining areas held
by the State, (v) outdated legal frameworks and complicated concession and cadastral procedures, and
(vi), lack of security of tenure for mining rights. In addition, the lack of sector capacity in environmental
and social management was also identified as an issue for sound mining development.
The Government developed in 1993 a strategy for environmentally sound private mining development,
which aimed to (i) encourage private investments while avoiding wasteful promotion schemes, (ii) better
define the respective responsibilities of the provincial and federal mining authorities, divest state owned
mining interests and restructure and improve the sector agencies, (iii) modernize the legal framework by
amending the Mining Code and promulgating complementary legislation, establish procedures and non-
discretionary administration for granting mining rights and enforce environmental regulations; and (iv),
create an autonomous geological service to produce the required base line information.
Since then, most of the identified issues have been successfully addressed and the response of private
companies has been very positive, resulting in a sharp increase in mining investments. However, the issue
to develop the institutional capacity of the provincial sector authorities regarding mining rights
administration and environmental and social management was only partly addressed, as the first Mining
Development T.A. Project (Ln. 3927-AR) was limited to the participation of six Provinces in north
western Argentina. Inefficient procedures, limited institutional capacity and lack of environmental
management capacities still affect most Provinces of the country, hindering an harmonious and consistent
development of the mining industry in many Provinces with a significant mining potential.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed Project will address the remaining institutional gaps in the 17 Provinces which are not
participating in the on-going operation. It will:
(i) adjust the organization and work processes of the Provincial public mining institutions in line with the
new policy and legal frameworks, and strengthen their capacity;
(ii) unify the mining concession and cadastral procedures for the entire country and modernize and
improve the administration of mining rights;
(iii) develop permitting procedures as well as environmental and social monitoring capacity of the
provincial management units (UGAPs), and establish environmental baseline information; and,
(iv) link the Provinces to the National Mining Information System.
Taking advantage of the implementation and political momentum generated by the on-going T.A.
project, the strategy to focus on the regulatory and institutional development of the provincial authorities
is critical for the development of the sector in the sense that the Provinces are responsible for the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 4
Country: Argentina                                               Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
management of their mining resources, according to the Argentine Constitution, and they represent the
principal legal interface between the state and the mining companies.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                                             Category      Cost Incl.  % of    Bank-      % of
Conting.    Total   financing   Bank-
(US$M)             (US$M)   financing
A. - Policy Implementation
A. I - Institutional Framework Development: reform and  Institution-    6.7    14.4    5.8        14.7
strengthen the public mining agencies in 17 Provinces, based   building
on the institutional model developed under the first T.A
project. This includes: organization and staffing of key
administrative units, setting-up of efficient work procedures;
training of staff in policy, legal and management aspects;
provision of adequate office and field equipment; and
rehabilitation of facilities.
A.2 - Mining Cadastre and Registry System: (i) setup or  Institution-    18.8  40.4    16.0       40.5
improve the reference mining geodetic network, survey all    building,
existing mining concessions using GPS technology, and  Physical
include data in a modem and accurate Mining Cadastral
System; and (ii) introduce unified registering procedures and
clear up the backlog of pending concession applications. This
includes: provision of field, topogeodetic (GPS) and data
processing (hardware and software) equipment; training of
staff in GPS and data processing technology.
A.3 - Environmental Management: (i) strengthen the capacity  Institution-    15.6  33.5    13.8   34.9
of the National Environmental Management Unit (UGAN) to  building
support Project implementation in participating Provinces; (ii)
strengthen the capacity of the Provincial Environmental
management units (UGAPs) in 17 Provinces for permitting,
monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations;
setting up of unified procedures for the processing of
Environmental Impact Statements (EISs); (iii) carry out
environmental baseline studies in mining and potential
mining districts; and develop a shared federal/provincial
Environmental Information and Management System (EIMS);
(iv) carry out socio-economic baseline studies in selected
mining districts as a basis for development of methodology
and capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and
economic impacts of mining on local communities; set up of
legal and fiscal mechanisms to ensure an equitable sharing of
mineral rents; develop consultation and participatory
procedures. This includes: training of staff in environmental
and socio-economic management related to mining; provision
of infrastructure, field and data processing (hardware and
software) equipment.
A.4 - Unified Mining Information System BUD): (i)     Institution-    3.6      7.8      3.0       7.6
strengthen the information management units in the 17  building,
provinces, systematize the development of relevant data bases  Physical
according to the norms and standards of the National Mining
Information System (SNIM); and (ii) develop the Mining
Information and Promotion program (MINPRO). This
includes: provision of hardware and software, installation of
the LAN and connection to Internet and the SNIM; training of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 5
Country: Argentina                                               Second Mining Development Tecinical Assistance
Component                                             Category      Cost Incl.  % of    Bank-      % of
Conting.    Total   financing   Bank-
(US$M)             (US$M)   fnacig
staff in information, data bases and network management.
B. Project Coordination. The project has been prepared by    Project  1.8      3.9      0.9       2.3
the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) of the ongoing TA  Management
Project (Ln. 3927-AR) which will also be responsible for the
implementation of this repeater operation and will be
strengthened accordingly. The PCU will monitor, supervise
and provide management control for all components and for
the overall Project. The PCU will manage procurement,
including all contracting for works and purchases, and the
hiring of consultants, the contractual relationship with the
Bank and the project's overall administration and accounting.
Total         46.5       100.0   39.5      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy reform. Through the implementation of the Project, the State will (i) create an enabling
environment for a socially and environmentally sound development of the mining sector and (ii)
strengthen its capacity as a regulator - in a transparent and non-discretionary manner - of mining
activities.
Institutional reform. The new role of the public mining institutions (PMIs) has been defined in detail
under the first mining Project, including the respective role of the public and the private sectors as well as
inter-institutional relationships and mandates.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
The following benefits are expected:
(i) induced by the project: (a) Increased foreign and local direct investment in mining projects and
increased export revenues; (b) development of private service capacity to the mining industry, such as
exploration and drilling services, environmental impact studies, laboratories, mining construction works
and earth removal, maintenance and others; (c) development of infrastructure related to mining and with a
regional development impact (e.g. roads, energy, water); (d) increased income-generating opportunities in
areas with high unemployment, increased education opportunities and reduced migration outflow; (e)
contribution to the decentralization and to a better regional distribution of productive activities; and (f),
sustainable development and fair benefits for local communities located around mining; and,
(ii) as a direct result of the project, i.a:(a) extension to the entire country of a modem, consistent and
homogenous legal and regulatory framework for mining; (b) improved efficiency of provincial public
mining institutions (e.g. faster and non-discretionary administration of mining rights) and improved
enforcement capacity of environmental, health and safety regulations; (c) improved security of tenure for
mining rights through accurate geographical location of concessions; (d) introduction to and training in
modem technology as a base for sustainable sector growth; (e) improved knowledge of existing
environmental and socio-economic conditions, as a basis for improved management and participation of
local communities; (f) protection of the environment from potential damages caused by mining; and (g),
generation of baseline information that can be used by all sectors (e.g. water resources).
Target Populations and Sectors:
- Provincial mining authorities;
- Local communities in mining districts; and
- Private foreign and local mining investors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 6
Country: Argentina                                        Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Project implementation period: The Project would be implemented over a period of 24 months. The
Project completion date would be March 31, 2000 and the Loan closing date would be September 30,
2000.
Executing agency: The Undersecretariat of Mines (SSM) would be responsible for the implementation of
the project.
Participating Provinces: The following 17 Provinces would participate in the project: Buenos Aires,
Chaco, Chubut, C6rdoba, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, Misiones, Neuquen, Rio
Negro, Santa Cruz, Santa Fe, Santiago del Estero, Tierra del Fuego y Tucuman.
Implementing agencies: Each provincial mining authority, through an officially designated coordinator,
will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project in its Province. Apart from the Project's
Institutional Development group, DPMs' line units will be established and/or strengthened, including a
Mining Cadastre and Registry unit, a Provincial Environmental Management Unit (UGAP) and a Unified
Data Bank unit (BUD), and will be directly involved in the implementation of their respective
subcomponents. Implementation units for specific subcomponents (UGAN and BUD at the SSM and the
National Mining Cadastre Coordination Unit at the UCP) will ensure overall technical coordination and
report to the UCP and the provincial coordinators.
Project Administration: SSM will strengthen the existing Project Coordination Unit (UCP) to (i) establish
a direct link with the SPMs/DPMs, (ii) coordinate and provide technical assistance to the implementing
agencies regarding project implementation, and (iii) manage (a) procurement - including all contracting
for works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation,
(c) the contractual relationship with the Bank, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and
disbursements.
Project Oversight: Project activities and progress would be presented to and reviewed by the Federal
Mining Council (COFEMIN), a consultative mining policy body representing the Provinces.
Accounting, financial reporting and audits: A computerized financial management system will be used by
the project and a private accounting firm will be contracted to maintain accounts and process payments. A
summary financial report would be included in the quarterly progress reports. Project Accounts, the
Special Account and all procurement, including Statements of Expenditure, would be audited annually by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and appointed for two years. The audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each calendar year.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The UCP will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation, working in
collaboration with the implementation units and the coordinators of the provincial implementing agencies.
Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the UCP will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports
covering all project activities, including procurement, and a financial summary report. A mid-term
review, 12 months after effectiveness, would provide detailed analysis of implementation progress
towards development objectives.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Options which have been considered include (a) participation of a smaller set of Provinces (e.g. 6 to 10)
instead of all Provinces (17), and (b), implementation of a repeater operation at a later stage or after
completion of the first Mining T.A. Project. Option (a) has been rejected considering that (i) management
and implementation complexity would not be significantly different and (ii) the establishment of unified
and modem procedures regarding administration of mining rights and environmental protection for the
whole country would generate greater synergy in terms of sector development, including for example
Provinces with an important potential of non metallic minerals. Option (b) has been rejected considering
the favorable momentum presently created by the first mining Project and on the assessment that it is
highly likely that commitment to reform - a critical factor - and political support could be maintained at
the present level during the next two years.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 7
Country: Argentina                                                Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
andplanned):
Sector issue                        Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-fnanced projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Argentina: modernize the sector legal framework;   Mining Development       S              HS
reform and develop sector federal institutions and   T.A. Project (Ln. 3927,
in six provinces, include. mining cadastre,  on-going)
environmental management capacity, mineral
resources information data base and set up a
national mining information system
- Bolivia: modernize the sector legal framework;    Mining Sector          S                S
strengthen the capacity of sector institutions,  Rehabilitation Project
develop the mineral resources data base; transfer   (Cr. 2013-BO,
state-owned operations to private sector; develop    completed 1997)
the environmental management capacity
- Ecuador: attract private mining investment &  Mining Development         S                S
support environmentally sustainable sector   and Environmental
development through modernization of the legal    Protection T.A Project
and institutional frameworks; and mitigate damage  (Ln. 3655-EC, ongoing)
that results from the use of primitive and
inadequate technology by informal mines
- Mexico: support the govermnent's program to  Mining Sector               S               HS
deregulate the mining sector and stimnulate private  Investment Loan (Ln.
domestic and foreign investmnent through the  3359-ME, ongoing)
establishment of an appropriate policy, legal and
institutional framework
- Peru: assist the government in the institutional    Energy and Mining T.A.  S             S
development of the Ministry of Energy and Mines  Loan (Ln. 3610-PE,
and its related entities to ensure adequate sector  completed 1997)
contribution to economic stabilization and
structural reform (in particular privatization and
environment)
Other development agencies
N/A
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from the ongoing Mining T.A. Project (Ln. 3927-AR) as well as from other
countries where the Bank has financed projects to develop mining activities (e.g. Bolivia, Ecuador,
Mexico, Peru) and from a recent Bank review of mining sector reform in Latin America (A Mining
Strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996):
- The emphasis put in the first project on management capacity development of provincial public mining
institutions has proven to be correct and will be repeated in the second operation.
- The participation of six Provinces in the first project has be-_n extremely useful in terms of piloting.
However, there is an imperative need to extend the reform to the rest country, as difficulties regarding
sector management in any of the Provinces have an impact affecting mining development in Argentina as
a whole.
- Regional implementation units specifically dedicated to overall technical coordination and assistance to
the provincial units in charge of the different subcomponent will be strengthened with respect to the first
operation, in order to support project implementation and improve ownership when necessary.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 8
Country: Argentina                                          Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
- Centralized procurement and consultant hiring arrangements under the responsibility of the UCP has
proven to be highly successful and efficient and would be repeated. Delegation of procurement
responsibility to the provincial agencies would cause delays and increase the management burden,
without contributing significantly to an improved management capacity in the referred entities.
- Existing monitoring mechanisms are working well under the first project, particularly in the case of
works and consultancy contracts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment of the Borrower is shown by the impressive continuity in both policy implementation and
staffing of the institutions and the UCP since the preparation phase of the first mining project in January
1994. With respect to the Provinces, their commitment to implement the policy and institutional reforms
which are supported by the Project will be demonstrated by their signing of the "Federal Agreement for
the Implementation of the Second Mining Project".
Ownership: the Borrower took the initiative in requesting the preparation of a repeater operation extended
to all Provinces not participating in the first mining T.A. project. Ownership by the Provinces is indicated
by the seriousness of their participation in the preparation of the project so far, including a four-day
workshop dealing with an in-depth analysis of sector reforms to be supported by the project and project
design in late October.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been the main provider of assistance to mining sector reform in Latin American countries
during the last decade and in this capacity has contributed to the present mining "boom" in the continent
(see Technical Paper No.345, A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996). Since
1993, Argentina has made good use of the Bank's experience in sector reform, particularly with respect
to sector policy and modernization of its institutional and legal frameworks, as well as for the
development of the information systems and data bases. The Bank has been instrumental in the success of
the reform, particularly through policy and technical assistance, through the funding of the first Mining
Development T.A. project.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other (Comparison of economic indicators)
The Second Mining Development T.A. Project will improve the enabling and operating environment to
sustain and increase the levels of private sector investment in the 17 provinces. It will also improve the
capacity of the federal and provincial governments as well as the private companies and local
communities to manage and provide for an equitable sharing of the benefits of mining developments.
While this type of technical assistance operation does not lend itself easily to quantitative investment
analysis, a number of economic indicators can be projected and compared. The gross value of minerals
produced currently in the 17 provinces which would participate in this second mining project is US$440
million (1996), or only 0.06 percent of Argentina's total GDP. Of the total value of production,
approximately 90 percent is of industrial and construction minerals. Production of metallic minerals is
still small. Exports of mineral products (borate, bentonite, clays and some metal concentrates) from the
17 provinces are presently US$ 30 million. A number of projects - all financed and operated by the
private sector - are under construction or at an advanced feasibility study stage entailing expenditures in
excess of US$250 million over the next two years. In addition, numerous foreign and domestic
companies have active exploration programs with expenditures of around US$28 million per year.
Using reasonable assumptions regarding the development of the mining projects presently in the
feasibility stage, the value of minerals production in the 17 provinces could increase to US$ 745 million



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 9
Country: Argentina                                          Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
by 2000. This would increase the contribution of mining in the 17 provinces to overall GDP to 0.1
percent. Moreover, since most of this development will be in exportable metallic minerals, exports of
minerals from the 17 provinces would increase from the present US$ 30 million to US$235 million, or
0.6 percent of total Argentina exports. Most of the export value would be generated from metals, though
significant potential exists in neighboring countries and/or international markets for an increase of sales
in selected Argentina industrial minerals. However, the effect of Mercosur on Argentina's competitive
position in non-metallics is still difficult to determine.
Projection of Mineral Exports for the 17 Provinces of this Second Mining Development T.A. Project
Year           Gross Export Value        Percentage of Total Argentina Exports
(US$ million year)
1996                     30                            < 0.1
2000                    235                             0.6
Other economic benefits of mining include employment generation in disadvantaged rural areas,
training of workforce and dependents, social and physical infrastructure, the development of support
industries (manufacture of mining equipment, provision of consulting services, development of capital
and commercial markets), and the transfer of technology and management know-how. A major
component of the technical assistance project will be to assess the economic and social impacts of mining
development, prepare legislation to provide for an equitable sharing of benefits, and train federal and
local officials and the local communities in the monitoring of these impacts on a consistent basis. The
experience to date of the Bajo la Alumbrera project (Catamarca), Argentina's first large new copper-gold
mine is illustrative of the impact of such a project on the local economy. According to input-output
matrices developed by the federal government, for every job created directly by the mining enterprise 4
jobs are created among major suppliers of goods and services to the operation (petroleum products, lime,
energy, other vendors). Thus, in the year 2005 some 3,700 persons will owe their livelihood directly or
indirectly to the mining operations. Total value added from payroll and other benefits of the direct and
indirect employment will be approximately US$ 300 million. The company has an extensive training and
education program for employees as well as for their dependents. Investments to date in infrastructure
(power, water, transport, etc.), to service not only the mine but also the surrounding area, have been in
hundreds of millions of dollars. Finally, the new and modem management methods introduced by the
mine will have a substantial and long lasting impact on the development of an industrial work ethic in
these rural areas.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV-US$ N/A    million; FRR= N/A
Fiscal impact: The basic legislation with respect to the fiscal regime for mining in the 17 provinces is
consistent with what is considered international good practice. A major aim of the technical assistance
project is to improve government and private capacity to apply on a consistent basis the tax legislation.
The impact on fiscal revenue of mining development has been estimated using a hypothetical model
based on the Cerro Vanguardia mine under construction. Premises are: (i) production of 7 tons of
gold/year; (ii) a production value of US$300/ounce; (iii) production costs of US$225/ounce and a mine
life of 20 years; and (iv) initial capital investment of US$200 million. The fiscal revenues accruing to
federal and provincial governments would represent over the life of the mine: income tax: US$155
million; royalties: US$29 million; and VAT taxes (possibly refunded to the producer if product is
exported): US$63 million. The total fiscal revenue would thus be in the range of US$180 to 250 million
(average of US$9 to 12.5 million/year). These fiscal impacts of a major mining operation are confirmed
by the experience to date of the Bajo la Alumbrera project, which is much larger than the Cerro
Vanguardia project. For instance, over the 20 year mine life the corporate income tax and diesel fuel tax
will aggregate US$ 1,101 million; royalties to the province of Catamarca US$ 513 million. Moreover,
the mine indirectly stimulates greater tax payments by suppliers which average US$ 15 million per year.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 10
Country: Argentina                                         Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Employees of the company as well as suppliers will pay substantial personal income tax as well as social
security contributions.
3. Technical:
The introduction and use of state-of-the-art technology ) have been very successful under the first Mining
Development T.A Project (Ln. 3927-AR, particularly within the fields of surveying (e.g. Global
Positioning Systems (GPS) instruments), data processing and information management (e.g. Geographic
Information Systems (GIS), Management Information Systems (MIS), software for support to decision-
making). Similar technologies will be introduced in the Provinces not participating in the first project.
Minor adjustments would mainly concern the updating of technical specifications for purchases
(particularly of hardware, software and topogeodetic instruments).
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The experience and implementation capacity of the provincial sector agencies
participating in the project vary. During preparation, these institutions have been grouped into three
categories on the basis of their respective needs and capacity, and specific assistance modules have been
designed. On the basis of the experience from the first mining project and of the information gathered
during preparation, there would not be any major capacity problems in terms of human resources to
implement the planned reform and technical programs and to manage the new technologies to be
introduced. Key factors for success will be to develop the awareness about the need and benefits of the
reform as well as ownership with respect to the programs throughout all staff levels of the institutions.
b. Project management: The current Project's Coordinating Unit (UCP) and management set-up are
performing in a highly satisfactory manner and will be responsible for the management of the second
mining Project. The UCP will have to be strengthened in terms of personnel, to respond to the increased
volume of work and number of provincial counterparts. The procurement and supervision of works and
consulting services for activities which will cover areas in several Provinces (including topogeodetic and
mining survey works contracts; environmental baseline studies and socio-economic impact consultant's
services contracts), should be managed by the UCP, in cooperation with the regional coordination units
and the interested Provinces. These activities will benefit from the experience gained under the first
Project.
5. Social:
Social issues related to mining have been reviewed as part of the Sector Environmental Assessment
(SEA, see E.6 below). Substantial investment is presently made in Argentina in mining exploration, and
several large projects are in the process of development (e.g. Bajo la Alumbrera and Cerro Vanguardia),
which will result in socio-economic impacts on the local community. However, assessment of the
impacts and involvement of the local community in the consultation process is still at an early stage, due
principally to lack of familiarity on the provincial level with the techniques and practices of social
assessment as well as an inadequate institutional and regulatory framework to provide for such
assessments. A Subcomponent of the Project has been designed and aims to address these issues (see
annex 2).
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [] A   [X] B   [I C
The comprehensive SEA carried out in 1995 to design the Environmental Management Subcomponent of
the first T.A. Project, has been updated (UGAN, December 1997. It reviews the present status of (i) the
environmental legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks; (ii) the evolution of the mining sector,
including a description of most of the mining projects in operation or under development; (iii) the
potential physical and socio-economic impacts of sector activities on the environment and on the
communities, including indigenous populations; (iv) lessons learned resulting from two years of
implementation of the first Project, as well as from the application of the Environmental Law for Mining
Activities (Law 24585, November 1995) and its regulations and from the initial activities of the
Provincial Environmental Management Units (UGAPs); and (v), the technical assistance to support the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 11
Country: Argentina                                              Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
extension of an efficient and consistent environmental management system to the whole country.
Compared with two years ago, the situation regarding environment and mining has changed considerably.
Important mining projects are now starting actual production (Bajo de la Alumbrera, Salar del Hombre
Muerto). A specific environmental Law for mining activities (Law 24585) has been passeda and included
within the Mining Code, applicable and enforceable for the whole country. Environmental regulations
have been approved in many of the Provinces and procedures as well as technical manuals are being
developed. Application agencies have been established virtually in all Provinces. About 1,300
Environmental Impact Statements (EISs) have been prepared by the mining rights holders and presented
to the respective UGAPs, as a result of the enactment of the Law. The EISs have been processed despite
the growing but still relatively weak capacity and technical level of the UGAPs.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. The basic environmental legislative and regulatory
work addressing mining activities has been carried out in consultation and coordination with industry
branch organizations, trade associations, the miner's unions and NGOs. This approach, including media
coverage informing the public, has continued at the national level and most of the participating provinces.
b. Other key stakeholders. Other stakeholders have been involved in and/or informed about the
implementation of the first mining project as well as - to varying extent - in the preparation of this second
operation. They include, i.a.: (i) national and provincial universities; and (ii), related extra- sector public
agencies (for example the Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human Environment and provincial
equivalents; federal and provincial water, energy and transport agencies and others).
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Based on the foundations developed under the first mining Project - including the development of the
legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks, the proposed operation will assist in creating conditions to
attract long-term private investment for mining development and to establish a self-sustained sector
growth. Sustainability will be enhanced through the project's strong emphasis on institutional building,
training, human capital development and environmental and social awareness in the public as well as
private sectors. Institutional and financial mechanisms will be put in place in order to sustain the activities
of the PMIs in the long term. Also, the functions and procedures to be established through the Project will
be operational on a routine basis by implementation completion date.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk              Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Annex I
cell "from Outputs to Objective":
(i) Provincial commitment to        M      A Federal Agreement for the Implementation of the Project
reform                                     will be signed by each of the participating Provinces prior to
effectiveness, spelling out policy principles (i.a. regarding
mining rights administration and environmental
management set up) and implementation guidelines
(ii) Condensed timing to build-up   M      Flexibility in the "module-wise", detailed design of
DPMs' capacity to master new               institutional development and in the implementation plan;
work methods                               proven strong advisory capacity at the federal level to guide
and support the development of managerial and
administrative capacities
(iii) Consensus building within and  M     The Federal Mining Council (COFEMIN) has assumed an
' The Environmental Law for Mining Activities as been approved by unanimity by Congress in November 1995.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 12
Country: Argentina                                                Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Risk               Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
between individual Provinces to             oversight function, forming a forum to debate possible
unify administrative procedures             conflicts and develop consensus positions
Annex 1
cell "from Components to Outputs":
(i) Continued DPMs' staff            M      Participative processes to implement the institutional reform
ownership regarding project                 and introduce new work methods; proven strong advisory
objectives                                  capacity at the federal level to guide and support the
development of managerial and administrative capacities
(ii) Staff stability                 M      Provision of necessary staff, resources and conditions to
effectively implement the reform are included in the Federal
Agreement
(iii) Political interference        M       Project implementation guidelines included in the Federal
Agreement aim at minimizing political interference
(iv) Procurement delays              N      All procurement documents are ready; UCP staff has
proven experience in procurement procedures and is well-
trained.
(v) Performance by contracted        M      Selection, supervision and monitoring functions have been
firms and consultants                       carefully designed, on the basis of positive experience from
the first mining project.
Overall Risk Rating   M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
The designed Project is mainly dealing with generally accepted institutional reforms and the
establishment of technical methodologies. However, it might get indirectly involved - through the
activities of implementing agencies participating in the Project and fulfilling their functions - in
controversial issues such as the evaluation of potential environmental damages or social impacts by
mining operations. The emphasis put on the development of transparent and reliable procedures,
including public consultation and information, should minimize the effect of such controversies. Because
mining is an incipient industry in Argentina, the publication of information from the environmental and
social baseline studies should not prove to be controversial, as it sometimes has been in countries with a
long mining tradition.
G: Main Loan Conditions
Loan conditions are similar to the ones defined for the first Project (Ln. 3927-AR), namely:
1. Effectiveness Conditions.
Standard conditions. In addition, the signing by at least eight Provinces of the Federal Agreement for the
Implementation of the PASMA II Project (PASMA II Agreement), committing such Provinces to apply
common policy principles and implementation guidelines, would be a condition of effectiveness in order
to ensure a minimum "critical mass" for the Project.
2. Other:
Implementation and disbursement covenants:
- Sign the PASMA 11 Agreement: the signing of the Agreement shall be a condition for any of the 17
provinces not included in the first project to be able to participate in the second one. Funds under the loan
would be disbursed to finance and implement activities of the project only for the provinces which will
have signed this Agreement.
- Execute the Project in accordance with the policy principles of the Federal Mining Agreement (May 6,



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 13
Country: Argentina                                            Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
1993) and the PASMA II Agreement.
Financial covenants:
- Standard conditions.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: N/A. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leadr: Gotthard Walser
Acting Sector Director: Krishna Challa
Country Director: Myrna Alexander



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                             Page 14
Country: Argentina                                                                    Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Argentina: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                             (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Enhance social development, including  - Private investment in mining will    Provincial and federal statistics,   - Continued neutral
poverty alleviation and human resource    contribute to increased employment   midterm evaluation,   macroeconomic and sector
development                          and increased national and local  Implementation Completion     policy environment
budget receipts                  Report (ICR) and continued
monitoring by SSM
2. Improve the performance and       - Improved provincial management   DPMs' records, midterm       - Continued consensus
institutional capacity of government,  of the mining sector and        evaluation, ICR, continued    between stakeholders on
particularly subnational governments, to   coordination between federal and  monitoring by SSM and DPMs    realistic and meaningful norms
deliver key social, infrastructure and  provincial sector authorities  and surveys of stakeholders   and procedures to be applied
environmental services
Project Development Objective:                                                                       (Objective to Goal)
1. Encourage private sector investment in  - Improved enabling environment for  ICR and continued monitoring    - Stable, long-term politically
mining and ensure it contributes to a  sector development:             by SSM; and surveys of        neutral macroeconomic and
sustainable economic and social        - Increased mining investment in    communities and other     sector policy environment
development in participating provinces  participating provinces by c-'  stakeholders                 - Reasonably stable world
20% (1996 level: US$56m) by                                   minerals market
year 2001                                                     conditions/prices
- Maintained/increased exploration
expenditures in participating
provinces (1996 level: US$28m)
after the end of the project
- Improved consultative procedures
between stakeholders (private sector,
public authorities, local and national
communities) for decision making at
the end of the project (EoP)
- Improved knowledge and/or
awareness in modern technology,
environmental management and
others matters (i.a. fiscal) at EoP
2. Extend the mining sector policy,  - Signing of the PASMA II         Baseline and monitoring reports,  Environmental control norms
regulatory and institutional reform to all   Agreement by 17 provinces, 6  midterm evaluation, ICR and  and procedures are
participating provinces              months after effectiveness (AE)   continued monitoring by SSM   enforceable and community
- All participating provinces have  and DPMs                   consultative processes are
adopted the reformed regulatory                                applicable
framework at EoP
- Unified mining cadastre system
established and operational in all
participating provinces, 21 months
AE
- UGAPs and environmental
management system established and
operational in all participating
provinces, 21 months AE
- Information management system
established and operational in all
participating provinces, 21 months
AE
- Trained personnel in all
participating provinces: land,
environmental, fiscal and
information management at EoP
- "Mining funds" and/or dedicated
budget established in all participating
provinces at EoP



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                              Page 15
Country: Argentina                                                                  Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Narrative Summary               Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation           Critical Assumptions
Outputs:                                                                                              (Outputs to Objective)
A.l Provincial PMls in capacity to    A.l No backlog of unprocessed     A.l Mining Cadastre logbooks,   A.l - Continued Provincial
provide timely, reliable and transparent    concession applications or EIS in  UGAPs' logbooks (EIMS) and    commitment to reform
administrative services to the sector  participating DPMs at EoP        DPMs' administrative MISs;
midterm evaluation and ICR
A.2 (a) Unified mining rights         A.2 (a) (i) Cadastral management  A.2.(a) Quarterly and annual   A.2 (a) - Timing to build-up
administration procedures over the whole  system operational 21 months AE  technical performance review  DPMs capacity to manage
country                               (ii) No significant procedural                                   cadastral system according to
differences among Provinces at EoP                              schedule
- Continued consensus within
COFEMIN to apply unified
procedures
(b) Establishment of a modem, updated    (b) >95% of mining concessions  (b) Mining Cadastre data base,    A.2.(b) - Timing to build-up
and accurate Mining Cadastre in all   surveyed and integrated into the  technical monitoring and       of DPMs capacity to manage
Argentine Provinces.                  mining geodetic reference system, 21  quarterly and annual evaluation    cadastral data according to
months AE                         reports                       schedule
A.3 (a) Provincial UGAPs in capacity to   A.3.(a.) (i) Environmental permitting  A.3.(a) (i) Quarterly and annual   A.3 (a) - Timing to build-up
process in a timely, technically adequate   system operational 21 months AE  technical performance reviews,   DPMs capacity to manage
and administratively transparent way the   (ii) Baseline data in participating  ICR                    EIMS according to schedule
EIS presented by mining companies, and   Provinces available, 24 months AE    (ii) Baseline studies reports, ICR   - Continued consensus within
according to nation-wide comparable   (iii) Monitoring system operational,  (iii) Quarterly and annual  COFEMIN to apply unified
criteria.                             21 months AE                      technical performance reviews,   procedures
ICR
(b) Improved social awareness,       (b) (i) Pilot baseline studies     (b) (i) Pilot baseline studies  A.3 .(b) - Continued Provincial
conditions for consultative processes and   available, 18 months AE.    reports, annual social assessment  commitment to address the
community participation in the                                          reports                       issue
development of mining projects.       (ii) Consultative procedures      (ii) Annual social assessment  - Timing to build-up DPMs
implemented, 21 months AE         reports, ICR                  capacity according to schedule
A.4 Provincial BUD capacity to process   A.4. (a) BUD system operational, 18   A.4. Quarterly and annual  A.2 (a) - Timing to build-up
in a timely, technically adequate and  months AE                        technical performance review   DPMs capacity to manage
administratively transparent way mining   (b) Mineral markets and statistics                           BUD system according to
information for decision making and to    information available, 21 month AE.                          schedule
orient private investment.
Project Components/Sub-components:    Inputs: (budget for each component;                              (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2 for project description)  cost include. contingencies)
A. Policy Implementation              A. Policy Implementation:
US$44.7 million
A. I Institutional Capacity Development   A. I Institutional Capacity Building:   A. 1 Institutional model  A. I - Continued DPMs'
US$6.7 million                    (organizational charts, staffing,   commitment to reform
A. 1.1 Implementation of the new      A. 1.I US$2.6 million             implementation schedule),      - Continued project ownership
institutional model: organization,                                      contracts and procurement      - No political interference
staffing, financial resources and work                                  records, monitoring reports    - No procurement delays
methodology
A. 1.2 Equipment and Works: upgrading    A. 1.2 US$4.1 million
of facilities
A.2 Mining Cadastre and Registry      A.2 Mining Cadastre and Registry  A.2 Procurement records,       A.2 - Staff stability
System                                System: US$18.8 million           monitoring reports, training and   - Continued project ownership
A.2.1 Implementation and training     A.2.1 US$0.9 million              technical performance          - No procurement delays
coordination and technical assistance                                   evaluation reports             - Satisfactory performance by
team;                                                                                                  contracted firms;
A.2.2 Topogeodesic and cadastral survey   A.2.2 US$14.2 million
works;
A.2.3 Equipment; upgrading of facilities   A.2.3 US$3.2 million
A.2.4 Implementation of the Cadastral    A.2.4 UJS$0.5 million
Management System



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 16
Country: Argentina                                                               Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
A.3 Environmental Management        A.3 Environmental Management:    A.3 Contracts, procurement   A.3 - Provincial line staff
US$15.6 million                 records, monitoring reports,  continued
A.3.1 Implementation and training   A.3.1 US$0.9 million            technical and training        environmental/social
coordination and technical assistance                                performance evaluation reports   awareness related to mining
team (strengthening of UGAN)                                                                       - Staff stability
A.3.2 Environmental management      A.3.2 US$4.1 million                                          - Continued project ownership
capacity: upgrading of facilities.                                                                - No political interference
implementation of the EIMS and training                                                           - No procurement delays
programs                                                                                          - Satisfactory performance by
A.3.3 Environmental baseline studies  A.3.3 US$7.0 million                                        contracted consultants
A.3.4 Socio-economic impact of mining:  A.3.4 US$3.6 million
pilot baseline studies, development of
consultative procedures, development of
assessment criteria, training and
institutional strengthening
A.4 Unified Mining information System    A.4 Unified Mining Information  A.4 Procurement records,  A.4 - Staff stability
System: US$3.6 million          technical and training        - Continued project ownership
A.4.1 Implementation of the BUD units:   A.4.1 US$1.1 million        performance evaluation reports    - No procurement delays
organization, staffing, financial resources
and work methodology
A.4.2 Works and equipment: upgrading    A.4.2 US$1.2 million
of facilities
A.4.3 Training                      A.4.3 US$0.4 million
A.4.4 Mineral markets and Statistics  A.4.4 US$0.9 million
program
B. Project Coordination, Monitoring  B. Project Coordination: US$1.8    B. Quarterly and annual reports,  B. - Staff stability
and Evaluation                      million                          contracts and procurement    - No political interference
- Hire and supervise staff                                           records, and audits
- Manage procurement
- Contract accounting and auditing
- Prepare quarterly and annual reports and
annual operation plans
- Monitor progress and evaluate results
TOTAL COSTS: US$46.5 million



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 17
Country: Argentina                                                 Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 2
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Description
Project Component A: Policy Implementation - US$44.7 million (96.1% of project total costs)
Project Subcomponent A.1: Institutional Capacity Development - US$6.7 million (14.4% of total Project
costs). The broad sector legal and institutional frameworks have been reformed during the last four years, as part
of the policy to reduce the role of the State and to adapt public mining agencies to better-defined functions,
eliminating most of their past widespread overlapping and modernizing their capacity to administer the sector. A
careful and in-depth analysis has been carried out under the preparation and implementation of the first mining
Project (PASMA I) with representatives of federal and provincial agencies. The respective role of such agencies
and of the private sector and their inter-relationships have been identified. As a result, a detailed institutional
model and implementation plan have been designed and are currently being implemented at the federal level and
in the six Provinces participating in the PASMA I Project. This institutional model should now be incorporated by
all remaining Provinces. Overall, this subcomponent's tasks will be coordinated by the Undersecretariat of
Mining (SSM( with the help of the UCP and the support of the COFEMIN. Two programs are included:
A. 1.1: Implementation and Adjustment of the New Institutional Model Program - US$2.6 million (38.8% of
Subcomponent costs). This program aims at specifically adjusting the overall institutional model defined under
the PASMA I Project to the Provinces participating to this Second Mining Development T.A. Project (PASMA
II) one, and to implement it. The model will be adjusted through a participative process (workshops and seminars)
and implemented through on-the-job training under the supervision of an institutional implementation team,
operating on a nation-wide basis in order to ensure proper coordination and consistency. Work will include the
detailed and ad hoc design of the institutional model in each of the Provinces, including organization, staffing,
budget and identification long term financial sources for core responsibilities; the setting up and implementation
of efficient work procedures; and on-the-job training of staff in policy, legal and management matters. Work
includes also a detailed inventory of the infrastructure needs (facilities and equipment) to be funded under the
Institutional Infrastructure program (A. 1.2). Provisions include the financing of about 20 specialist-months of
international and about 120 specialist-months of local consultants, of incremental recurrent costs related to travels
of the implementation team and to training and of the purchase of minor equipment (computer and
presentation/training equipment).
A. 1.2: Institutional Infrastructure Program - US$4. I million (61.2% of Subcomponent costs). Based on the results
of Program A. 1.1 above, funds would be provided to upgrade facilities at the participating Provincial Mining
Directorates (DPMs). The Program will provide funds for office rehabilitation, purchase of basic core office
equipment (including administrative hardware and software not included in other subcomponents), vehicles,
purchase of legal and technical literature, and the publication of information and legal and administrative
procedures.
Project Subcomponent A.2: Unified Mining Cadastre and Registry System - US$18.8 million (40.4% of
total Project costs). A priority objective of the Government's mining sector policy is to establish a nation-wide
well-informed, uniform and interactive cadastral system. Based on the model developed under the PASMA I
Project. The PASMA II will finance the transformation of the physical registries of participating Provinces into
proper mining cadastres. The cadastre will provide reliable information about the precise location of mining rights
in the territory, expressed in Gauss-Kruger coordinates - which is obligatory in Argentina and can be translated
and expressed in any other coordinate system - and also about the legal status of mining rights. The procedures
required in order to apply the cadastre process will be transparent, public, of general application and non-
discretionary. In addition, the cadastre will cover both the mining rights requested and granted after it becomes
effective, and already existing ones as well as the ones that have been simply requested. Hence the cadastral
procedure will have stages, instances and resources to allow owners of acquired mining rights to adequately



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 18
Country: Argentina                                                   Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
defend their rights in accordance with the provisions of the Mining Code. Older rights which are not inserted into
the new cadastre must be legally canceled in order for the information resulting from the cadastre to be correct
and useful in practice. Four Programs are included:
A.2. 1: National and Regional Coordination Team - US$0.9 million(4.8% of Subcomponent costs). To ensure
consistency and homogeneity in the carrying out and supervision of the geodetic and cadastral surveys (Program
A.2.2 below) and in the implementation of the cadastral and registry systems (Programs A.2.3 and 4 below), the
Cadastral Coordination team already working under PASMA I will be strengthen and will operate on a nation-
wide basis in cooperation with the participating DPMs and under the supervision of the UCP. Provisions include
the financing of 96 specialist-months of local consultants, administrative assistance and purchase of minor
equipment (computer) as well as incremental recurrent costs related to travels to the Provinces.
A.2.2 7Topogeodesic and Cadastral Survey Works - US$14.2 million (about 75.5% of Subcomponent costs). The
cadastre is related to the terrain's topographical features, and hence it will be necessary to complement and/or
improve some geodetic networks and cartography, both of which have serious deficiencies in Argentina. On the
basis of the upgraded geodetic networks, the existing exploration and mining concessions will be surveyed using
up-to-date technology, benchmarks will be set up and the data incorporated to the cadastral information system.
Provisions under this Program include the financing of a set of about three regional works contracts (about 87.5%
of the Program costs), as well as the verification of such works, also to be contracted out, to a different firm
(about 7.5% of Program costs). Also, it includes the financing of incremental recurrent costs (about 5% of
Program costs) related to the participation of the respective Provincial mining authorities, as defined under the
Mining Code to certify the location of the mining rights. As demonstrated under the PASMA I Project, such
participation implies a very effective on-the-job training of DPMs' staff in the use of modem topogeodetic
technology.
A.2. 3: Equipment - US$3.2 million (about 17. 0% of Subcomponent costs). This Program includes the purchase of
modern hardware and software, topogeodetic instruments (including GPS instruments), vehicles and the
provision and furnishing of adequate field and office facilities for the cadastre and registry functions.
A.2.4 Mining Cadastre Management System: Implementation and Training - US$0.5 million (about 2.77% of
Subcomponent costs). Based on the experience of the PASMA I Project, implementation of the computerized
Mining Cadastre System in the participating Provinces and on-the-job training is strengthened.
Project Subcomponent A.3: Environmental Management - US$15.6 million (33.5% of total Project costs).
The general objective of this Subcomponent is to extend to the participating Provinces the set up of a preventive
environmental protection system for mining activities, currently under implementation under the PASMA I
Project. This system should bring together the respective mining administration agencies at the national and
provincial levels as well as other public and private environment entities. The Subcomponent will: (i) strengthen
the capacity of UGAPs in 17 Provinces for permitting, monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations;
setting up of unified procedures for the processing of Environmental Impact Statements, as developed under the
PASMA I Project; (ii) develop a shared federal/provincial Environmental Information and Management System
(EIMS); (iii) carry out environmental baseline studies over mining and potential mining districts; (iv) carry out
socio-economic baseline studies over selected mining districts as a basis for development of methodology and
capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and economic impacts of mining on local communities; setup of
legal and fiscal mechanisms to ensure an equitable sharing of mineral rents; develop consultation and
participatory procedures. It includes: training of staff in environmental and socio-economic management related
to mining; provision of infrastructure, field and data processing (hardware and software) equipment. The
Subcomponent includes four Programs:
A.3.1: Strengthening of the UGAN- US$0.9 million (about 5.8% of Subcomponent costs). This Program aims at
temporarily strengthening the existing capacity of the UGAN - as a federal coordinating unit responsible for the
development of an adequate and consistent nationwide environmental regulatorya and monitoring framework - to
a The development of the legal and regulatory framework, as well as the setting up of procedures and production of technical manuals
are financed under the first Mining Development T.A. Project (Ln. 3092-AR).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 19
Country: Argentina                                                        Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
deal with the coordination of the institutional and management capacity development, including training, of the
participating UGAPs, as well as the supervision of the baseline and socio-economic studies to be carried out
under the Project. Provisions include the financing of 120 specialist-months of local consultants, administrative
support, minor purchase of equipment (office equipment, hardware and software) as well as incremental recurrent
costs related to travels in the participating Provinces.
A. 3.2: Environmental Management Capacity Building of UGAPs - US$4.1 million (about 26.3% of Subcomponent
costs). This Program is specifically directed at the participating UGAPs and includes the establishment and
strengthening of Provincial capacities by, i.a., the implementation of environmental regulations, norms and
standards, the application of methods and routines for issuing environmental permits (including evaluation criteria
to assess the Environmental Impact Statements (EIS)) and the establishment of appropriate monitoring,
supervision and control within the sector regarding such programs. It includes three Subprograms: (i) works and
equipment which will upgrade office and field facilities (rehabilitation works, purchase of vehicles and office and
field equipment) (about 49% of the Program costs); (ii) implementation of a unified Environmental Information
and Management System, an inter-related set of data bases aiming at administer permitting procedures as well as
compile and process baseline and monitoring data (about 18% of Program costs); and (iii), environmental training
(about 33% of Program costs).
A. 3.3 Environmental Baseline Studies - US$7.0 million (about 44.8% of Subcomponent costs). Baseline studies
are carried out to obtain comprehensive information regarding the existing natural and social conditions in areas
influenced by mining activities. This Program will: (i) generate the specific information and data to support
decision-making regarding the location of infrastructure, mining and processing facilities; (ii) develop
multidisciplinary research methodologies to be applied in environmental analysis; and (iii), strengthen the
research capacity and human resources in environmental issues related to mining activities. The program will
finance an environmental baseline study for each of the participating Provinces and will proceed on a schedule of
priority areas which has been determined by the location of environmentally sensitive areas. Work will make
selective use of existing data from available sources, through field and source compilation, revision,
supplementation, and comprehensive interpretation of such data. Such work will include, i.a., (i) the study and
determination of water resources: watershed areas, rain statistics, resource modeling, and water sampling and
analysis (results will also be documented in and be compatible with Geographical Information System (GIS)
currently under implementation by UGAN); (ii) evaluation of the areas' environmental vulnerability; and (iii),
determination of mining impacts regarding existing or past operations. Close cooperation with the respective
UGAPs will be established. Provisions include the financing of international consultancy services contracts.
A.3.4 Training and Institutional Strengthening in Assessment of Socio-Economic Impacts of Mining Investments -
US$3.6 million (about 23.1% of Subcomponent costs). Argentina lacks the mining tradition of countries like
Chile, Peru or Bolivia. Nonetheless, substantial investment is being made in exploration and several large
projects (for instance, Bajo la Alumbrera and Cerro Vanguardia) are in the process of development. Development
of these projects has focused attention on the likely socio-economic impacts on the local community. However,
assessing these impacts and involving the local community in the consultation process has been neglected. This
is due principally to lack of familiarity on the provincial level with the techniques and practices of social
assessment as well as an inadequate institutional and regulatory framework to provide for such assessments. This
component of the project aims to remedy these deficiencies. Pilot baseline studies will be conducted in selected
provinces to; i) identify the likely social, cultural, macro and micro economic, financial, fiscal, and other impacts
of mining; ii) identify principal groups of local and regional stakeholders in the project, such as the workforce,
suppliers and vendors to the enterprise, company owners and shareholders, non-government organizations,
infrastructure, and the local and provincial governments; iii) devise statistical and other performance indicators to
objectively assess the costs and benefits of the impacts for each group of stakeholders; iv) evaluate and assess the
key questions and issues to be addressed; and v) make concrete recommendations and devise an action plan for
subsequent activities. The baseline studies in the selected provinces will serve as templates for subsequent work
in other provinces. Part of the concrete output of the studies will be recommendations and proposals pertaining to
consultation procedures, training requirements and programs, institutional strengthening, and monitoring and
feedback of performance of the operations. It is important to note that these aspects pertain to the public as well



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 20
Country: Argentina                                                  Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
as the private sectors. A policy paper will be prepared to be endorsed by the national and provincial governments
and a set proposed regulations pertaining to assessment and social impacts will be prepared for the both the
national and provincial levels. A series of training programs and seminars will be conducted nationally and
provincially, for public and private sector participants. This training will focus on consultation procedures and
continual monitoring and evaluation of socio-economic impacts using numeric and other performance indicators.
Project Subcomponent A.4: Unified Mining Information System (BUD) - US$3.6 million (7.8% of total
Project costs). An essential tool in the development of private sector mining and the correct administration of the
sector is the rapid and efficient access to accurate information. An integrated information data bank - the National
Mining Information System (SNIM) - is currently being developed at the national level and in the six Provinces
participating in the PASMA I Project, and is managed by a federal and provincial BUD units located in the
respective DPMs. Similar units are already established in a number of other Provinces. The Subcomponent is
aiming at: (i) strengthen the information management units in 17 provinces, systematize the development of
relevant data bases according to the norms and standards of the SNIM; and (ii) develop the existing Mining
Information and Promotion program (MINPRO) in the participating Provinces. It includes: provision of hardware
and software, installation of the LAN and connection to Internet and the SNIM; training of staff in information,
data bases and network management. The Subcomponent includes four Programs:
A.4. 1: Implementation of BUD units at the Provincial Level - US$ 1.1 million (about 30.6% of Subcomponent
costs). The objective of the BUD is to systematize the collection and interpretation of sector information at the
Provincial level and to link it to the SNIM, making use of state of the art technology to gather, store and provide
the information to interested parties in a timely fashion. The BUD will also be responsible for integrating the
cadastral and environmental information systems into a DPMs-wide management information system (MIS),
particularly with respect to administrative, permitting and monitoring functions. The Program will be coordinated
and implemented by a specially designed task force of specialists located within the federal SSM. Provisions will
include the financing of 126 specialist-months of local consultants, of incremental recurrent costs related to
travels to the Provinces and operation of the system, as well as of communications and software license fees.
A.4.2 Works and Equipment - US$1.2 million (about 34.5% of Subcomponent costs). Equipment to be procured
includes, i.a., hardware and software specifically dedicated to the SNIM functions. communications devices and
accessories. Software requirements include programs in administrative system and database management,
processing, communications and editing. In addition, subscriptions to various local and provincial electronic
databases, and Internet will be funded. Some rehabilitation work, in particular network cabling and connections,
up-grading of electrical supply and computer security in government offices will be provided.
A.4.3: Training - US$0.4 million (about 10% of Subcomponent costs). A training program aiming more
particularly to the implementation and use of the MIS will be carried out.
A. 4.4: Mineral Markets and Statistics - US$0.9 million (about 26.9% of Subcomponent costs). This Program is an
extension to the participating Provinces of the Mining Information and Promotion Program (MINPRO)
implemented within the framework of the PASMA I Project at the federal level. The BUD is collecting,
synthesizing and distributing information in general, while MlNPRO is particularly focusing on the processing,
interpretation and distribution of data for sector analysis and promotion. The skills needed to successfully
implement an information and promotion campaign are specific and different from those required for the BUD.
Hence the MNIPRO activity will be separate, but will draw extensively on information generated by the BUD.
The Project will finance equipment (some specific hardware and software), training, incremental recurrent costs
and promotion publications.
Project Component B: Project Coordinating Unit (UCP) - US$1.8 million (3.9% of total Project costs). The
Project was prepared with the strongly committed support of the Coordinating Unit of the PASMA I Project.,
which will continue to operate throughout implementation of the PASMA II Project. The UCP links with SSM's
line agencies - particularly the UGAN and BUD units - as well as the Provincial agencies participating in the
Project., and, during implementation, will monitor, supervise and provide management control, by Components,
Subcomponents and Programs and for the Project as a whole. The UCP will be strengthened accordingly and will



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 21
Country: Argentina                                                        Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
manage procurement - including all contracting works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, the
contractual relationship with the Bank and the Project's overall administration and accounting - which includes
managing the Project's Loan Account and its other funding. UCP staff have attended Bank procurement seminars
and satisfactorily implemented procurement under the PASMA I Project. As under the currently on-going Project,
an accounting firm will be retained with UCP funds to carry out the main accounting tasks during Project
implementation. The UCP will be responsible for preparing and submitting to the Bank quarterly reports dealing
with Project implementation, and for contracting under TORs acceptable to the Bank, the yearly audits of the
Project including the timely submission of such audit reports to the Bank. The Project will finance the contracting
within the existing UCP of an alternate General Coordinator, an assistant in charge of monitoring and control,
project and administrative support. Funding is also provided for the unit's operational costs, as well as some
minor additional office equipment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 22
Country: Argentina                                                Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 3
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                       Local          Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ thousand--------------------
Consultant Services                            513            400           913
Equipment                                        5             85            90
Incremental Recurrent Costs                   1,059           454         1,513
Consultant Services                            170              0           170
Contract Works                                1,768           442         2,210
Equipment                                       81           1,534        1615
Consultant Services                            445              0          445
Equipment                                        2             28            30
Incremental recurrent Costs                    270            115           385
Contract Works                                2,584         10,336       12,920
Incremental Recurrent Costs                    476            204           680
Consultant Services                             90              0           90
Equipment                                      141           2,689        2,830
Incremental Recurrent Costs                    196             84           280
Consultant Services                            170              0           170
Training                                       154             66          220
22 )A3U42U~AN~ ,,i5~ ,j2)t,                      2N= E>
Consultant Services                            480              0          480
Equipment                                        5            120           125
Incremental Recurrent Costs                    230            100           330
Consultant Services                              0            105           105
Contract Works                                 136            544           680
Equipment                                       60           1,195        1,255
Incremental Recurrent Costs                    476            204           680
Training                                       260            920         1,180
Consultant Services                              0           6,800        6,800
A)A  oiaR           Ei  iiArssPiWi~n                ~6       ~    ~    9 i'i): '34



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 23
Country: Argentina                                                   Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Consultant Services                              990               0          990
Incremental Recurrent Costs                      805             345         1,150
Training                                         840            360          1,200
w   .t-_ 
AI4.1 Implementation of BUD Provincial Units         830             185         1,015
Consultant Services                              400               0          400
Incremental Recurrent Costs                      310             135           445
Training                                         120              50          170
A.42 Works and Equipment                               85           1,105        1,190
Contract Works                                    34             136           170
Equipment                                         51             969         1,020
A.4.3 Training                                        238            102           340
Incremental Recurrent Costs                      119              51           170
Training                                         119              51          170
A-4.4 Minerat Markets and Statistics                  544            391           935
Equipment                                          9             161           170
Incremental recurrent Costs                      416             179           595
Training                                         119              61          170
Consultant Services                             1,205              0         1,205
Equipment                                          7             133           140
Incremental recurrent Costs                      310             135           445
Physical Contingencies                                    100           1,000         1,100
Price Contingencies                                       100            500           600



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 24
Country: Argentina                                                 Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 4
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Economic and Financial Assessment Summary
A. Economic Contribution of Mining
The gross value of minerals produced currently in the 17 provinces which would participate in this
Second Mining Development Project is US$440 million (1996). Of the total value of production, approximately
90 percent is of industrial minerals (borate, feldspar, mica, bentonite, barytine, kaolin, salt, diatomite, semi-
precious stones) and application minerals (marble, aggregates, etc.). Production of metallic minerals is still small;
only lead, zinc and silver are produced in sizable quantities. The Cerro Vanguardia project (Santa Cruz) is under
construction and should produce US$ 100 million-year of gold beginning in 1998. A number of projects - all
financed and operated by the private sector - are in an advanced feasibility study stage (Manantial, Espejo,
Pirquitas) or in a detailed exploration/ pre-feasibility phase which could be in production over the next several
years. In addition, numerous foreign and domestic companies have active exploration programs (expenditures of
US$28 million-year) which could easily result in the discovery of a new major orebody.
The value of current mining production represents less than 0.06 percent of Argentina's gross domestic
product of US$300 billion (1996). However, with the new projects anticipated to come on-stream in the 17
provinces over the next several years this should increase to 0.1 percent. Of significance is the increase of mining
in the 17 provinces to export earnings. Currently, approximately US$ 30 million-year, principally of industrial
minerals plus some metal concentrates, are exported, representing 0.1 percent of Argentina's total exports. By
the year 2000 with the anticipated increase in metals mining this should increase to US$ 235 million, or 0.6
percent of total exports. These exports would generate foreign exchange or, if the metals would be consumed
locally, would save on foreign exchange required to import metals. In addition to metals, potential exists in
neighboring countries and/or international markets to expand exports of selected Argentina industrial minerals
(bentonite and kaolin, for example). The effect of Mercosur on Argentina's mineral exports is difficult to
determine. On the one hand, removal of various tariff and non-tariff barriers could significantly enhance the
penetration of certain mineral commodities in neighboring countries. On the other hand, access to Argentina's
domestic market of cheap foreign imports could weaken certain local producers burdened with high cost
structures (marble, for example), whose productivity would have to improve significantly to compete.
Table A.5 - 1: Projection of Mineral Exports for the 17 Provinces of this Second Mining Development T.A.
Project
Year              Gross Export Value         Percentage of Total Argentina
(US$ million year)                 Exports
1996                     30                             0.1
2000                     235                            0.6
Table A. 5 - 2: Production of Minerals from the 17 Provinces of this Second Mining Development T.A. Project
Commodity          Gross Production Value (US$   Gross Production Value
million)                (US$ million)
17 Provinces               All Argentina
Metals                                   34.7                      40.3
Non Metals                               110.2                    149.3
Semi-precious stones                      0.2                       1.5
Construction Materials                  295.9                     351.8
Totals                                  440.9                     542.8



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 25
Country: Argentina                                                      Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Other economic benefits of mining include employment generation in disadvantaged rural areas, training of
workforce and dependents, social and physical infrastructure, the development of support industries (manufacture of
mining equipment, provision of consulting services, development of capital and commercial markets), and the transfer of
technology and management know-how. A major component of the technical assistance project will be to assess the
economic and social impacts of mining development, prepare legislation to provide for an equitable sharing of benefits,
and train federal and local officials and the local communities in the monitoring of these impacts on a consistent basis.
While these benefits are difficult to quantify, the experience to date of the Bajo la Alumbrera project (Catamarca),
Argentina's first large new copper-gold mine is illustrative of the impact a mining project can make on the socio-
economic development of local and regional. According to input-output matrices developed by the federal government,
for every job created directly by the mining enterprise 4 jobs are created among major suppliers of goods and services to
the operation (petroleum products, lime, energy, other vendors). Thus, in the year 2005 some 3,700 persons will owe
their livelihood directly or indirectly to the mining operations. Total value added from payroll and other benefits of the
direct and indirect employment will be approximately US$ 300 million. The company has an extensive training and
education program for employees as well as for their dependents. Investments to date in infrastructure (power, water,
transport, etc.), to service not only the mine but also the surrounding area, have been in hundreds of millions of dollars.
Finally, the new and modem management methods introduced by the mine will have a substantial and long lasting impact
on the development of an industrial work ethic in these rural areas.
B. Analysis of Fiscal Regime for Mining
The Mining Investment Law No: 24196 passed in 1993 provides for several incentives for mining investments.
These include, inter alia:
- tax stability for 30 years (excluding VAT tax)
- double deduction for exploration and feasibility work
- accelerated depreciation for capital investments
- exemption of capital gains taxation on the value of equity transfers
- exemption from assets tax, due to be abolished in June 1995
- exemption from import duties, taxes, and statistical tax
- provincial royalties maximum of up to 3 percent of "mine mouth" value
- special allowance of 5 percent of operating costs for environmental fund
In most respects, the legislation is consistent with what the Bank would consider international "best practices": i)
no discrimination is made between foreign and domestic investors; ii) the accelerated depreciation provisions provide for
rapid pay-back of capital invested; iii) production costs are not burdened by excessive import or other taxes; iv) the VAT
tax is recoverable when products are exported; v) provincial royalties are not only capped at 3 percent but also assessed
on "mine mouth" value reducing the effective rate to an equivalent industry standard of around 1-2 percent of net smelter
return; vi) environmental cleanup costs are properly considered operational costs, and an allowance of up to 5 percent of
operational costs can be deduced in the calculation of income tax to fund environmental work; vii) tax losses can be
carried forward for five years; viii) the basic rate of income tax (30 percent) and absence of dividend withholding taxes
are very attractive by international standards.
An illustration of the fiscal impacts of a major mining operation is the experience to date of the Bajo la Alumbrera
project, Argentina's first large copper-gold mine. Over the 20 year mine life the corporate income tax and diesel fuel tax
will aggregate US$ 1,101 million; royalties to the province of Catamarca US$ 513 million. Moreover, the mine indirectly
stimulates greater tax payments by suppliers whichi average US$ 15 million per year. Employees of the company as well
as suppliers will pay substantial personal income tax as well as social security contributions.
The effects of the tax regime on a mining investment in the 17 provinces were estimated by the appraisal mission



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 26
Cotmtry: Argentina                                                      Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
on the basis of the Cerro Vanguardia which will enter production in 1998. The premises in this estimation are: (i)
production of gold would average seven metric tons per year; (ii) the yearly value of production would be US$85.8
million at an international gold price of US$300/ounce; (iii) production costs are an international average of
US$225/ounce, the mine would have a life of 20 years; and (iv) the initial capital investment required would be US$200
million.
The fiscal revenues accruing to federal and provincial governments are summarized in the following table:
Income Tax over the mine life                                 US$155 million
Mine Mouth Royalty over the mine life                          US$29 million
VAT taxes over the mine life (possibly refunded to             US$63 million
the producer if product is exported)
Total government taxes over life of mine                US$184 to 247 million



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 27
Country: Argentina                                                             Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 5
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ million; 1998 base year)
Implementation Period                        Operational Period
1998    1999    2000             Total     2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs               12.7    26.1       0.7           39.5        0.3       1.0     1.0      2.7      1.1
Recurrent Costs                 1.3      5.2      0.5            7.0        4.4       5.2     5.4      5.6      5.8
Total                        14.0    31.3      1.2           46.5        4.7       6.2     6.4      8.3      6.9
Financing Sources (/O of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                       87.1    84.3    75.0             84.9
Government                     12.9    15.7    25.0             15.1      100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Total                       100.0   100.0   100.0            100.0     100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Main assumptions:



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 28
Country: Argentina                                                 Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 6
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A). Goods and contract works will be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, and in September 1997). Consultants to be financed by the Loan (amounting to about US$3.2 for training
purposes and to US$12.1 million for other purposes or about 6.9 and 26.0 percent of cost, respectively) will be
selected and hired by the UCP in accordance with the guidelines for the "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997). Consultants services from
firms will be contracted for the execution of environmental and socio-economic studies (QBS), for accounting
and auditing purposes (QCBS and SFB); and for procurement assistance (UNDP, NBFa). Individuals will be
contracted to build up the different coordination and implementation teams (mainly SFB), and to provide specific
technical assistance under the Project (mainly CQ). The principal Terms of Reference for work included in the
Project were drafted during preparation and reviewed at appraisal. Draft contracts for consultants and consultancy
services will follow the IBRD Standard Form of contracts, as applicable. Procurement of goods, at an estimated
cost of US$7.6 million equivalent (or 16.3 percent of costs) includes purchase of computer equipment and
software, furniture, instruments, field and office equipment and vehicles. They would be procured using: ICB for
packages each estimated to cost US$350,000 or more, for a total cost of about US$5.9 million, including a two-
stage bidding procedure for computer hardware and software; NCB for packages each estimated to cost between
US$ 100,000 and US$350,000, for a total cost of US$0.9 million; and shopping procedure for goods and materials
which need to be purchased in packages smaller than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of about US$0.8
million. Given the need to obtain service, maintenance and spare parts promptly, all vehicles and technical
equipment and instruments will be procured from agents or vendors serving the country with after sales facilities,
and the respective arrangements may be procured jointly with such packages. Costs of contract works to be
financed under the Project amounting to about US$16.6 million (or 35.7 percent of costs) would be procured
using: LIB for geodetic survey and cadastre positioning benchmarks; and NCB or shopping procedures
(depending on the amount) for monitoring and control of the geodetic and cadastral work and for facilities
rehabilitation works (at an aggregate cost of about US$12.4 million, US$3.6 million and US$0.6 million,
respectively). For all LIB procurement under the Project, a large enough number of suppliers would be invited to
ensure appropriate competition and representation. All ICB and LIB procurement will be carried out using the
Bank's Standard Bidding Document (SBD); and for NCB and shopping, ad hoc SBD will be prepared and agreed.
Training (technical; institutional management; environmental and socio-economic management; information
system management and other) will be contracted following Bank guidelines for consultants (see above), and
provision of educational materialsb related to training courses will be included in the consultancies contracts. The
Project is expected to use the services of the UNDP to provide support on procurement arrangements.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). Procurement documentation and decisions under ICB and LIB and for
contracts for goods, civil works and contract works expected to cost US$ 100,000 ore more would be subject to
a     Procurement acronyms used in this annex - Consultants' Services: CQ: Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; LCS:
Least-Cost Selection; NBF: Not Bank-financed; QBS: Quality-Based Selection; QCBS: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; SFB:
Selection under a Fixed Budget. Procurement of Goods and Works: ICB: International Competitive Bidding; LIB: Limited
International Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding.
b     Education equipment will be procured under the Goods category.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 29
Country: Argentina                                                 Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
prior review by the Bank. The prior review of consultants contracts would be in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, except for contracts with consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and
US$50,000 respectively, for which Terms of Reference (TOR) would receive prior review. The proposed review
procedures would result in a prior review of about 90 percent of total contract value under the Project, which is
satisfactory.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): The loan would be disbursed over a period of 30 months (the
Project completion date would be March 31, 2000 and the Loan closing date is September 30, 2000) against
expenditures net of taxes and duties, as follows: (i) 100 percent for international and 74 percent for local
consultancies, including training consultancies and educational materials; (ii) 85 percent for contract works,
including geodetic and cadastre positioning benchmarks and facilities rehabilitation works; (iii) 100 percent of
expenditures for goods; and (iv) 80 percent for incremental recurrent costs up to US$3.2 million, 60 percent up to
an aggregate of US$4.5 million and 30% for the remaining. Disbursement of Loan proceeds would be made
against four categories (base costs): (i) consulting contracts for (a) training purposes (US$2.5 million) and (b) for
other purposes (US$ 10.1 million); (ii) contract works (US$13.6 million); (iii) goods: computers, equipment and
vehicles (US$7.3 million); and (iv) incremental recurrent costs (US$ 4.8 million). Unallocated contingency
allowances amount to about 4 percent of total project base which is deemed to be sufficient considering the short
life period of the Project.
Retroactive Financing. Eligible expenditures incurred after December 1, 1997, up to 12 months prior to
Loan signing would be retroactively financed up to a maximum equivalent of US$ 1.0 million (about 2.5% of the
Loan value).
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs). Disbursements will be made against Statement of Expenses
(SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring the Bank's prior review. Therefore disbursements for all contracts
for: goods, civil works and contracts works of less than US$100,000; consulting services, including training, by
firms and individuals of less than US$ 100,000 and US$50,000 respectively; and all incremental recurrent
expenses, would be made on the basis of SOEs and certified by the UCP.
Special Account. Payments from the loan proceeds would be administered by the UCP from a Special
Account. The Special Account would be maintained in a commercial bank selected by the Borrower and
acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized allocation, sufficient for about four months of financeable
expenditures, would be US$1.7 million; however, the initial allocation would be limited to US$1.0 million until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into the Bank shall be equal to or exceed US$5.0 million. The Special Account would be
managed by the UCP which would be responsible for preparing disbursement requests. These requests would be
submitted monthly or when the Special Account has been drawn down by a third of the initial deposit, whichever
occurs first. Replenishment of the Special Account would follow Bank procedures. Disbursements will be made
under the authorized signature from a designated representative of the Borrower. The Special Account would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 30
Country: Argentina                                                          Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                            Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other    N.B.F
1. Works
Geodetic and Cadastre Benchmarks                     2.4a1      12.4b/                     14.8
(2.0)     (10.6)                     (12.6)
Rehabilitation Works                                 1.2         0.6c/                      1.8
(1.0)       (0.5)                     (1.5)
2. Goods
5 gd/       0.9         0.8e/                     7.6
(5.9)       (0.9)       (0.8)                     (7.6)
3. Services
Training and Educational Materials                               3.2h/                      3.2
(2.6)                     (2.6)
Consultancy Services                                            II.4AV      0.7W/          12.1
(10.4)      (0.0)         (10.4)
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental Recurrent Costsi/                                    7.0                        7.0
(4.8)                     (4.8)
Total                                    5.9         4.5        35.4         0.7           46.5
(5.9)       (3.9)      (29.7)       (0.0)        (39.5)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
a' National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for the monitoring and control of the benchmarks works.
bI Limited International Bidding (LIB) in accordance with World Bank guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and September 1997).
'National Shopping procedures, to contract part of the planned rehabilitation works at DPMs
d/ International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and September 1997)
" International or National Shopping procedure for purchase of minor hardware and software packages
f' Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997).
g' UNDP contract regarding procurement arrangements, financed 100% under Government's obligations
h' Includes consultant services for training activities, by procedures acceptable to the Bank; educational
materials related to training courses will be included in the consultancies' contracts
"Incremental recurrent costs: rent, utilities, travel and per diems of staff.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                              Page.3 I
Country: Argentina                                                                  Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Selection Method                                Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                                      (including
Expenditure Category                                                                                      contingbncies)
QCBS    QBS           SFB       LCS        CQ         Other    N.B,F.
Training
A. Firms                          0.2                   0.4                   1.8                             2.4
(0.2)                (0.2)                 (1.5)                            (1.9)
B. Individuals                                          0.3                  0.2        0.3                   0.8
(0.2)                (0.2)      (0.3)                 (0.7)
Subtotal  0.2                   0.7                   2.0        0.3                   3.2
(0.2)                (0.4)                 (1.7)      (0.3)                 (2.6)
Other Consultancies
A. Firms                          0.3        8.0       0.2                                         0.7        9.2
(0.2)     (7.8)      (0.1)                                                  (8.1)
B. Individuals                                         2.1                   0.8                              2.9
(1.6)                (0.7)                            (2.3)
Subtotal  0.3        8.0         2.3                   0.8                   0.7       12.1
(0.2)     (7.8)       (1.7)                 (0.7)                           (10.4)
Total  0.5        8.0         3.0                   2.8       0.3         0.7       15.3
(0.4)     (7.8)       (2.1)                (2.4)      (0.3)                 (110)
Note: QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS =Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 32
Country: Argentina                                                 Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category            Value              Method               Prior Review /
(Threshold)                           Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $                                   US $ millions
thousands
1. Works
> 350     ICB                              All/12.4
100 - 350    NCB                             All/3.6
< 100     Price quotations (shopping)      None
2. Goods
> 350     ICB                               All/5.9
100 - 350    NCB                             All/0.9
< 100     Shopping                         None
3. Services
(a) Training purposes:
Firms                 >100       QCBS, QBS, SFB                   All/2.4
<100      SFB, CQ                           TOR
Individuals            >50       QCBS, SFB, CQ                    All/0.8
<50      SFB, CQ                           TOR
(b) Other purposes
Fijrms                > 100      QCBS, QBS, SFB,NBF               All/8.9
<100      SFB, CQ                          None
Individuals            > 50      SFB, CQ                          All/2.5
< 50     SFB, CQ                           None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   37.2



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 33
Country: Argentina                                                           Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in US$       Financing Percentage
million
1. Consultant Services
(a) Training and educational material
International                                         0.8                100%
National                                               1.7                74%
(b) Other purposes
International                                         7.3                100%
National                                              2.8                 74%
2. Works                                                     13.6                85%
3. Goods
International                                         7.0               100%
National                                               0.3      100 % (82%)a
4. Incremental Recurrent Costs                                4.8       80% to US$3.2
million; 60% to 4.5
million and 30% for
remainder
6. Unallocated/contingencies                                  1.2
Total              39.5
a in the case of disbursements for goods, the percentage of local expenditures to be financed by the Bank shall be 100% in the case of
goods procured through the services of a tax-exempt procurement agent or 82% in the case of all other goods



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 34
Countiy: Argentina                                                   Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Annex 7
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
50
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             9/1/1997              9/1/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     12/15/1997           12/15/15/1997
Negotiations                                    12/18/1997           12/19/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   4/1/1998                1 /19
Prepared by: Federal Undersecretariat of Mining (SSM)
Preparation assistance: N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Craig Andrews                     Socio-economic aspects of mining
Ferenc Molnar                                 Legal
Bekir Onursal                             Environment
Gotthard Walser                          Task Team Leader



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 35
Country: Argentina                                                       Project: Second Mining Developmnent Technical Assistance
Annex 8
Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan - including terms of reference for works and studies to be initiated during the
first year of the project, as well as for goods to be purchased.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Evaluaci6n Ambiental Sectorial Minera Para el PASMA II - UGAN, December 1997
Acuerdos Federales PASMA II - Draft, December 1997
*Including electronic files.



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 01/15/98
Status of Bank Group Operations In Argentina
IBRD  Loans and IDA  Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Differencs, Betwean
Original Amoont in US  Milions                    and aetual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                               _                   disburseants  /
Project 1D    Credit No.    Tsar                 Borrowar                          Purpose
1is"        IDA       Cancellations    Undlebursed         Ori0   Frm Revyd
Number of Closed Loans/credits; 54
Active Loans
AR-PE-51693     IBRD42190      1900   GOVERNMENT                           P.RFH(SALTA)                        75.00        0.00              0.00          30.00         0.00       0.00
AR-PE-51694     IB042200       1990   GOVERNMENT                           P.RFM(S.JUANI                       50.00        0.00              0.00          50.00        10.00       0.00
AR-PE-51695    IB9042190       1996   GOVERNMENS                           P.RFMCR.NEGRO)                      75.00        0.00              0.00          50.00         0.00       0.00
AR-PE-6006     0IBRD2210       1998   MIN. OF ECONHY                       P.Rl4(TUCO4AN)                     100.00        0.00              0.00         100.00        50.66       0.00
AMR-PE-6041     IBR042120      1996    GOVERNMENT                          SMALL FARMER DV.                    75.00        0.00              0.00          75.00         -.99       0,00
AR-PE-39564    I19041630       1997   GOvT OF ARGENTINA                    E.A.URB.TSP                        200.00         0.00             0.00         200.00        10.00       0.00
AR-PE-lOS0      199040600      1997   GOA                                  N.FOREST/PROSC                      19.50        0.00              0.00          19.02         -.28       0.00
AR-PE-I341        R 159041660  1997    REPUBLIC OF ARG                     AIDS PREV.6STD CTRL                 15.00         0.00             0.00          14.36         1.61       0.00
AR-PE-d6821     IBR041310      1997   GOVT.OF ARC                          PENSION TA                          20.00        0.00              0.00          16.71         -.94       0.00              CD
AR-PE-49269     19042950      1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                    SOC.FROTSCT.2                      200.00        0.00              0.00         102.17       -47.63       0.00
AR-PE-5980      IBR040930     1997     0?VT or ARGENTINA                   PROV ROADS                         300.00        0.00             3.o0          300.00        25.00       0.00
AR-PE-6010      W3041500     1997   GOA                                   PROV AC OEVS 1                     125.00        0.00              0.00         125.00         3.90       0.00             CD
A-PE-6052      I1RD41170       1997    GOVS OF ARGENTINA                   r1.00 PROSECTION                   200.00        0.00              0.00         199.65         3.65       0.00
AR-PE-6059,     IPD41640       1997    ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                  MTL.CHD.HTH.2                      100.00        0.00              0.00          97.44        -1.56       0.00             r4
At-Pg-34091     189039210      1996    REP Or ARGtNTINA                    HIGHER ED REFORM                   165.00         0.00             0.00         143,51        72.01      32.51             0
AR-PE-35495     IBR039570      1996    SEC.OF SOC.DEVIT (OFFICE            SOCIAL PROTECTION                  152.00        0.00              0.00           8.16         5.17       0.00
AR-PE-37049     IBR039560      1955    00VS OF ARGENTINA                   PUB.INV.STRENGTHO                   16.00        0.00              0.00          15.50         5.90       0.00                  _
AR-PE-3883      IBR039600    199    REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA                 ENT.EXPORT DV.                      38.50        0.00              0.00          31.13       29.62        0.00
AR-PE-60904     IBR039260      1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA               B5NK REFORM                         500.00        0.00              0.00         166.00       165.64       0.00             o
AR-PE-40909     IB5040030     1996   REP. OF ARGENTINA                     M. INSURANCE REFORM                100.00        0.00              0.00         100.00        50.00       0.00                  CD
MR-PE-45687     159040040      1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA                    H.INSURANCE TA                      25.00        0.00              0.00          12.02         .41        0.00              >   X
AR-PE-6030      13B039310     1994    REPD5 OF ARGENTINA                   PROVCL HLTH SCTR OEV               101.40        0.00              0.00          93.50       32.00        0.00             V 
AR-PE-6040     I1RD39480      1996   GOVERNMENT                            FORESTRY/DV                         16.00        0.00              0.00          13.70          .11       0.00
AR-PE-6055      IBRD39270      1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA                  MINING SCTR DEVW                     30.00        0 00              0.00          15.33       -2.97        0.00
AR-PE-6057      IBR039710     1996   GOV T OF ARGENTINA                   SECKDART ED 2                       115.50        0.00             0,00          112.50       37.30       -3.00
AR-PE-5992      19RD37940      1995   GOVS OF ARGENTINA   INA              SECONDARY ED I                     190.00        0.00             0.00          159.29       112.40       0.00
AR-PE-60'B     9IB036770       1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC                  PROV DEVT  1                        225.00        0.00              0.00         206.90        17.97       0.00
AR-PE-6060      IBR036600      1995   GOV OV ARGtNTINA                    MUNIC OEVT 11                       210.00        0.00             0.00          190.06       -7.93        0.00
AR-PE-6025      IR5036430      1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA             MTNAL CHILD HLTH L N                100.00        0.00             0.00           35.13       20.62        0.00
AM-PE-6062      13R037100      1904    NIH OF ECONOMY                      CAPITAL MKT TA                       6.50        0.00             0.00            3.93        3.93        0.00
AR-PE-6003      I5R036110      1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA             R0 MAINT & REHAB SC?                340.00        0.00             0.00          129.53      100.24        0.00
AR-PE-6036     1B035200       1993   GOVERNMENT                           YACYRETA 11                        300.00        0.00             0.00            1.66         1.65       0.00
AR-PE-6051      IBRD35210      1993   MGENTINA                             FLOOD REHABILITATION               170.00        0.00              0.00           3.18        2.94        0.00             En
AR-PE-6031      IR034600       1992   GOVERNMENT                           TAX ADMIN 11                        20.00        0.00              0.00            .12        -.43        0.01
AR-Pr-5977      IBR032810      1991    ARGENTINE REPVBLIC                 NWR SUPPLY 11                       100.00        0.00              0.00          61.99        62.00       0.00
AM-PE-6005      IBR032600      1991    REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA               PROVINC OEV PROJ                   200.00        0.00              0.00          33.32        33.31       0.00
AM-PE-400s      IBR032970      1991    GOVT or ARGENTINA  INA              AG SERVCESLINST DEV                 33.50        0.00              0.00           2.64         2.02       1.54
AR-PE-5968      I55026540      1987   SEG3A                               SEG8A V                             276.00        0.00              0.00          67.07       67.06        0.00
Total                                                                                                       4,986.90        0.00             0.00       2,989.40       674.77       31.0S
Active Loans        Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed IBO5  and IDA):                   1,990.46             7,021.56             9, 020.04
of which has besn repaid:                    202.47              3,004.68             3.207.15                                                                                                                  3
Total now hold by lllD and IDA;         *        4,704.43              4,016.53             B 2B02.66
Amount sold                                            0.00               12.79                12.79 
Of which repaid            :                       0.00                12.79                12.79                                                                                                                 C
Total Undisbureed             0                  2,966.40                  1.61             2,990.04
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disburoements to date as projected at appralsal.                                                                                                                      0
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)
o Os



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 37
Country: Argentina                                                      Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Argentina
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Nov-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1960/95/97            Acindar                37.50    0.00   25.00   65.56   12.50    0.00   25.00   15.56
1977/84/86/88/94/96   Alpargatas             24.23    6.05    6.37   89.29   19.23    6.05    6.37   75.79
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96   Minetti              11.71    0.00   10.00   30.00    9.09    0.00   10.00   22.15
1987                  BGN-TBR                   .14    0.00    0.00    0.00     .14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89               BGN-Bolland              .18    0.00    0.00    0.00      .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89               BGN-Flichrnan             .13    0.00    0.00    0.00     .13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89/90/96/97      Terninal 6              19.84    0.00    0.00    5.96    9.84    0.00    0.00    5.96
1987/92               BRLP                     8.51    0.00    0.00     .58     .97    0.00    0.00     .58
1988/93               Bunge y Born            3.72    0.00    0.00   28.07    3.72    0.00    0.00   28.07
1989                  BGN-Algodonera           .22    0.00    0.00    0.00      .22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Ferrum               .67    0.00    0.00    0.00      .67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-FRIGOTOBA             .10    0.00    0.00    0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Interpack             .20    0.00    0.00    0.00     .20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Parafma               .50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  BGN-Willmor              .55    0.00    0.00    0.00      .55    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ROB-COMESI                .19    0.00    0.00    0.00     .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ROB-Fracchia             .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                  ROB-INTA                 .19    0.00    0.00    0.00      .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/96               Banco Frances          41.02    0.00    0.00      .27    5.33    0.00    0.00     .27
1990                  CIP                     0.00      .08    0.00    0.00    0.00     .08    0.00    0.00
1990/94               Petroken                19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65   19.39    0.00    5.00    3.65
1991                  BCA                      1.32    0.00    0.00    1.69    1.32    0.00    0.00    1.69
1991                  ROB-Guilford             .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  ROB-Longvie              .23    0.00    0.00    0.00      .23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                  FEPSA                   7.50    0.00    0.00    7.33    7.50    0.00    0.00    7.33
1992                  OleaginosaOeste         6.11    0.00    5.00    8.71    6.11    0.00    5.00    8.71
1992                  Rioplatense              5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67
1992                  San Jorge               0.00   27.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93/96            Malteria Pampa          12.39    0.00    1.00   10.56   12.39    0.00    1.00   10.56
1992/95               Bridas                 40.32   10.00   15.00   69.22   40.32   10.00   15.00   69.22
1993                  Argentina Equity        0.00    2.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.93    0.00    0.00
1993                  Nuevo Central           6.25    3.00    0.00   10.00    6.25    3.00    0.00   10.00
1993                  Yacylec                  8.25    5.04    0.00   27.55    8.25    5.04    0.00   27.55
1993/94               Molinos                  0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00
1994                  AceiteraGeneral         15.00   10.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  BGN                     12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1994                  LBAR                     0.00    1.17    0.00    0.00    0.00     .64    0.00    0.00
1994                  LBAV                    0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00
1994                  Quilmes                 11.86    0.00    0.00   10.00   11.86    0.00    0.00   10.00
1994/95               EDENOR                  17.88    0.00   15.00   77.42   17.88    0.00   15.00   77.42
1994/95/96            Aguas                   73.59    7.00    0.00  239.61   73.59    7.00    0.00  239.61
1994/95/97            La Maxima                0.00   14.39    4.00    0.00    0.00   12.12    3.96    0.00
1995                  Banco Roberts           0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
1995                  CEPA                    11.67    0.00    0.00    3.00   11.67    0.00    0.00    3.00
1995                  Kleppe/Caldero           5.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.64    0.00    0.00    0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 38
Country: Arg ntiPs                                                    Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Apprqyal            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995                  Mastellone            35.71    0.00    0.00   28.00   35.71    0.00    0.00   28.00
1995                  Nahuelsat             30.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  SanCor                18.75    0.00   20.00   24.00   18.75    0.00   20.00   24.00
1995                  Socma                 20.84    0.00    0.00   55.00   20.84    0.00    0.00   55.00
1995                  SIDECO                 0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Terminales Port.       9.50    2.00    0.00    0.00    8.50    2.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund             0.00   15.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.68    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund Mgr         0.00    .14    0.00    0.00    0.00    .04    0.00    0.00
1996                  Banco Galicia         30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00
1996                  Bansud                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Brahma- ARG           18.50    0.00    0.00   33.00   18.50    0.00    0.00   33.00
1996                  CAPSA                 12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00
1996                  Grunbaum               7.50    0.00    2.00    5.00    7.50    0.00    2.00    5.00
1996                  MBA                    0.00    .16    0.00    0.00    0.00      .16    0.00    0.00
1996                  Neuquen Basin          0.00   26.40    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.45    0.00    0.00
1996                  Refisan               20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1996                  Transconor            25.00    0.00   20.00  210.00   25.00    0.00   20.00  210.00
1996                  Zapon                 14.00    0.00    6.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    6.00    0.00
1997                  FRIAR                 10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00    6.47    0.00    2.50    4.53
1997                  Guipeba               15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                  Milkaut               10.00    0.00   10.00    5.00   10.00    0.00   10.00    5.00
1997                  T6I                   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Vicentin              25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998                  FAID                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    .41    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 741.27  166.26  184.87  1,330.  619.29  113.77  179.83  1,256.
14                             32
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  AGUAS III - INC        15.00    0.00    0.00   75.00
1997                  ARGIE MAE              0.00    .40    0.00   65.00
1997                  BANCO DEL SUQUIA    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1996                  EDESUR II BLINC        0.00    0.00    0.00  108.00
1996                  EDESUR REHAB          40.00    0.00    0.00   80.00
1993                  FEPSA (11)             0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1997                  KLEPPE II              6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  ROBERTS NOA CL        30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  TGN 11 BLINC           0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
Total Pending Commitment:         91.00    .40   10.00  342.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                               Page 39
Country: Argentina                                                                              Project: Second Mining Development technical Assistance
Annex 10
Argentina at a glance                                                             8/28197
Latin Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America  middle-     r
rgentina   & Carib.  income    I Development dliamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       35.1       485      479   I
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                           8,410     3,710    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                             295.0      1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        1.3       1.7      1.5     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.0       2.3      1.8     per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index % of population)              26
Urban population (% of total population)               88        74       73
Ltfe expectancy at birth (years)                       73        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)              22        37       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (SG of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                 64        80       86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    4        13       13               Argentina
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  111      110      107          -A      pen dia
Male                                                  .         ..       ,                Upper-middle-inome yrup
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996                     __
Economic ratios*
GDP (billions US$)                          52.4    88.4      280.8   300.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP               29.4    17.6       18.3    18.5              Openness of economy
Exports ofgoods and services/GDP             5.8    11.7        8.5      9.0
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                    29.3    23.1        18.4    18.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  28.4    16.6       17.5    17.2
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.5    -1.1      -0.9    -1.3
Interest payments/GDP                        0.9      5.0       2.1      2.3     Savings                      Investment
Total debttGDP                              14.7    57.6       32.0    33.2
Total debt service/exports                  44.7    60.1       47.4    46.7
Present value of debtGDP                       ..      ..      29.5
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    332.1                           Indebtedness
1978-85  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                              -     Argentina
GDP                                 0.6      2.9    -4.6        4.4      5.0
GNP per capita                     -1.8      2.0    -6.4        2.8      3.9               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       5.1      7.6    26.4        7.4      8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOWY
1975    1985       1995    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                       Growth rates or output and investment (%)
Agricuiture                                  6.6      7.6        7.4     7.1      40
Industry                                    50.1     39.3      36.0    36.2       30-
Manufacturing                              38.2    29.7                        I20
Services                                    43.3    53.1       56.6    56,7       10
01092   93   94               'M
Private consumption                         58.1       ..      72.3    73.3    -20
General govemment consumption               12.6       ..       9.4      8.5                     GOi       GDP
Imports of goods and services                6.0      6.3       8.5      9.3
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  1.6      1.5       2.3      0.3      80
Industry                                     -1.5     2.7      -8.5      4.9    s0 
Manufacturing                              -1.6     0.9
Services                                     2.2      3.3      -3.0      4.6      40
20
Private consumption                            ..      ..      -8.6      5.7
General govemment consumption                  ..      ..      -6.6    -5.4      or                  9             '  
Gross domestic investment                    -3.5     5.7     -11.9      5.4    -20
Importsofgoodsandservices                    2.4    14.5      -14.0    10.0                    Exports  t     mports
Gross national product                      -0.3      3A        -5.1     4.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
he inmmnlat



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                  Page 40
Country: Argentina                                                                                Project: Second Mining Development Technical Assistance
Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
DomesOc prices                                                                      Inflation(%
(% change)                                                                        a3,000
Consumer prices                              182.6    672.3       3.4      0.1    2,00
Implicit GDP deflator                        198.2    618.2       4.5      2.5
Govemment finance                                                                  '
(% of GDP)                                                                              0               0
Current revenue                                 ..       ..      16.7     16.5              91   92   93   94   95   99
Current budget balance                          ..       ..      -0.2     -1.1                     GDP def.      PI
Overall surplusideficit                         ..       ..      -1.1     -2.4
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                          2,961    8,396    20,964   23,774      25,000
Food                                          ..       ..    1,969    2,203
Meat                                           .        ..     1,582    1,955     20,GOO
Manufactures                                   .        ..    10,836   12,004     150o
Total imports (cid                           3,947    3,814    20,120   23,733      2011Y 
Food100
Fuel and energy                                .        .       8 09"    846"      5 ooo
Capital goods                                  .        ..     4,746    5,647        01
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                      ..       ..       118      124            9o  91  92  93  94  95  99
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..       115      120                      rt       imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..       ..       102      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratIo (%)
Exports of goods and services                3,498   10,039    23,889   27,076      2
Imports of goods and services                4,324    5,285    23,826   27,900
Resource balance                              -826    4,754        63     -824         r
Net income                                    -466   -5,706    -2,941   -3,523      D l
Net current transfers                           6        0        432      334        9s 0        92   93   94   9 X    99
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers         -1,286     -952    -2,446   -4,013    -2 -
Financing items (net)                         208    2,200      2,515      231
Changes in net reserves                      1,078   -1,248       -69    3,782      4 -.
Memo:
Reserves inciuding gold (mill. US$)           848    4,703     15,992   19,774
Conversion rate (local/US$)                3.7E-10  6.0E-05       1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995     1996_
(millions USS)                                                                      ComposItlon of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         7,723   50,946    89,719   99,701
IBRD                                        341      700      4,913    5,372                 G       A
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                10170   4913    C
Total debt service                           1,603    6,209     9,732   14,529                          4/        0
IBRD                                         43      114        565      608                  \4
IDA                                           0        0          0        0                                      E
11700
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        6         36
Official creditors                           59      217      1,411
Private creditors                          -111    2,350      5,674
Foreign direct investment                     0      919      1,319       *-               F
Portfolio equity                              0        0        211       ..             52323
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0      2,272      946      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                19      144        941    1,077      B - IDA    D- Other rnutilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         17       68        259      282      C - IMF                     G - Short-termn
Net flows                                     1       75        682      795
Interest payments                            26       46        306      326
Net transfers                               -25       30        376      469
Development Economics                                                                                                 8128/97



MAP SECTION



IBRD  26842
, '' " 70'  \    BOLIVIA                         60                                                 50
l~~~~~ ~~ V::05                               Santiagoi    Reiteca Bv                                  R AZ I
U M $5.g   tE^gS- vb1 PARAGU
E ,n  80sj,,0ee; >0,.,g,r5en3  ~ ~San SaOr           A * 
l 8'' "8 8 8 .S: 0' 3NatSaltoa    Capital
><  > t '  -<t lg 1<   t              mdn        |          v     q
.0   ;  '0 '805t' g'   t  a   s]                 CHACOw>t
SantiagoInRernationa   BoRnAZILs
X i;   3  L   sodn                         nt del Estero P|s  d B An
38  3,  3 0 1  }    _ _   t      SVA ND ESTs OITE A OOON GTC O         on  this   ma        d
3js ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ro lon,  o.w o8o <8st,                imply,0  Ln  taaRa  DE  I  Iof,5
LOA  3,81, TE R. 0                3ts  f La                           RiStor
:035,3.3::~~~~~ t0t08  ;,002>1                            E    S   0                                               3
3n                   R                           autc   o   such
BUENOS 0                           59
RIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL19



