Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4282-AR
Loan Agreement
(Second Mining Development Technical Assistance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                                                 and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 20, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4282-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 20, 1998 between the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower's Congress enacted Law No. 24196, dated April 28, 1993 
(the Mining Investment Law) which sets forth the investment regime for mining 
activities in the territory of the Borrower and includes several fiscal incentives for 
private investors;
 (B)
the Borrower entered into the Acuerdo Federal Minero (Federal Mining 
Agreement) dated May 6, 1993 (the Acuerdo Minero) with all its provinces, for the 
purposes of establishing the policy framework for the Borrower's mining sector, which 
agreement was ratified by the Borrower's Congress by means of Law No. 24228, dated 
July 7, 1993;
(C)
the Borrower:  (i) is implementing the Mining Development Technical 
Assistance Project (the PASMA I Project), financed in part by Loan 3927-AR to the 
Borrower from the Bank as detailed in a loan agreement between said parties dated 
October 18, 1995, which project supports the extension of mining sector reforms to the 
Borrower’s provinces of Catamarca, La Rioja, Mendoza, Salta, San Juan and San Luis; 
and (ii) now wishes to extend similar support to all its other provinces;
(D)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, except that Section 6.03 
of the General Conditions is modified to read: "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the 
Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan 
Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan 
shall be cancelled.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
 (a)
"Acuerdo PASMA" means an agreement (in plural Acuerdos PASMA), to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a Participating Province (as hereinafter 
defined), for purposes of establishing common principles and guidelines for the 
implementation of the Project;
(b)
"DPM" means a Dirección Provincial de Minería, the Mining Directorate (or 
agency performing similar functions) of a Participating Province (as hereinafter 
defined);
(c)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on January 1 
and ends on December 31 of each year;
(d)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of 
even date herewith, containing the implementation program and monitoring indicators 
for the Project;
(e)
"National Protected Areas" means the areas of national parks, natural 
reserves and natural monuments governed by the Borrower's Law No. 22351, dated 
December 15, 1980, and subsequent Borrower Laws creating additional such areas;
(f)
"Participating Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of Buenos Aires, 
Chaco, Chubut, Córdoba, Corrientes, Entre Ríos, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, Misiones, 
Neuquén, Río Negro, Santa Cruz, Santa Fé, Santiago del Estero, Tierra del Fuego and 
Tucumán;
(g)
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
 
(h)
"Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred to in Section 3.04 
(b) of this Agreement;
(i)
"Provincial Protected Areas" means the areas of provincial parks, natural 
reserves, and natural monuments within the jurisdiction of the Participating 
Provinces, for which areas the legislation of the Participating Provinces prohibits 
all, or establishes restrictions on, mining activities;
Page  3
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"SSM" means the Borrower’s Subsecretaría de Minería, (Undersecretariat of 
Mining); and
(l) 
"UGAP" means a Participating Province’s Unidad de Gestión Ambiental 
Provincial (Provincial Environmental Management Unit).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to 
thirty-nine million, five hundred thousand Dollars ($39,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in either a commercial bank or in Banco de la Nación 
Argentina on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
Page  4
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of Industry, Commerce and Mining of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services, or any other person designated in 
writing by him/her, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through SSM, with the participation of the Participating Provinces, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, mining and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
 (b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable the Participating Provinces to participate 
in the carrying out of the Project; and
(ii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the participation of the Participating Provinces in 
the carrying out of the Project.
 (c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set 
forth in the Implementation Letter.
 (d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Acuerdo Minero and the Acuerdos PASMA, in such a manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii)
achieve the objectives of the Project.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
Page  5
ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
 (b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, at all times until completion of 
the Project, a Project coordination unit with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following functions and 
responsibilities:
(i)
preparation of the reports referred to in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement;
(ii)
carrying out the procurement of goods, works and consultants 
services required for the Project; and
(iii)
overseeing the general administration of the Project, with respect 
to Loan proceeds withdrawals, accounting and auditing.
 (b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during the 
execution of the Project, headed by a Project coordinator, with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by 
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
 (c)
Without limitation or restriction upon other provisions of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the discharge of the functions of the PCU 
and the Project Coordinator.
(d)
Pursuant to the Acuerdos PASMA, the Borrower shall cause each 
Participating Province:
(i)
to appoint and retain, until completion of the Project:
(A)
a provincial Project coordinator with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank; and
(B)
qualified staff in adequate numbers, to assist the aforesaid 
coordinator;
(ii)
to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the discharge of the functions of 
its respective provincial Project coordinator;
(iii)
to adopt environmental regulations for mining activities, 
satisfactory to the Bank and consistent with the Borrower’s Law 
24585, dated November 21, 1995; and
  (iv)to assign qualified environmental specialists for all the 
functions related to environmental management of mining activities 
within the UGAP of the Participating Province.
Section 3.05. With regard to the services of the consultants to be hired under 
the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall, and shall cause the 
Participating Provinces to:
 (a)
promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to the Bank a copy 
of the consultants’ findings and recommendations;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and 
recommendations; and
 (c)
review and implement the recommendations of such consultants, taking into 
account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.06. With regard to the training programs to be carried out under the 
Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in the Implementation 
Letter, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall, and shall cause the Participating 
Provinces to:
Page  6
(a)
furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the contents, schedule, selection 
criteria, and number of participants of the respective programs;
(b)
carry out such training programs in accordance with the contents, 
schedule and selection criteria approved by the Bank; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each such training program and the 
benefits derived therefrom.
Section 3.07. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, starting in May 15, 1998, furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comments, a report on the progress achieved in the execution 
of the Project with regard to the preceding quarters ending December 31, March 31, 
June 30 and September 30, respectively, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request; and
(c)
on or about twelve months after the Effective Date, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a report integrating 
the result of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section (including the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section), on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date.
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through PCU, shall:
(a)
not later than December 15 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, starting in 1998, review, in conjunction with the Bank, the progress achieved 
by the Borrower and the Participating Provinces in the implementation of the Project 
during the previous calendar year, such review to be based on the progress reports 
referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
on or about fifteen months after the Effective Date or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish, review with the Bank the report referred to in Section 3.07 
(c) of this Agreement; and 
(c)
as a result of any of the above reviews, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the reports referred to in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.09. At all times until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
exchange views with the Bank on any proposed modification of the legal 
framework for the Borrower's mining sector; and
(b)
pursuant to, inter alia, the Borrower’s Laws No. 22351, dated December 
15, 1980, and No. 24585, dated November 21, 1995, ensure that no permits for mining 
activities are issued that may affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the National Protected Areas.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
Page  7
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, an be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the Borrower’s and/or of any Participating Province’s laws and/or 
regulations relating to the mining sector (including environmental laws and/or 
regulations), or any provision thereof, shall have been superseded by subsequent laws 
or regulations or amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, 
in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or of 
any of the Participating Provinces to perform any of their respective obligations or 
undertakings set forth or referred to in this Agreement or in the Acuerdo  Minero or 
in the Acuerdos PASMA, as the case may be;
(b)
the Borrower or any of the Participating Provinces shall have failed to 
perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings under the Acuerdo Minero 
or the Acuerdos PASMA, as the case may be;
(c)
the Acuerdo Minero (or any provision thereof) or any Acuerdo PASMA (or 
any provision thereof) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
carrying out of the Project;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower or any of the Participating Provinces will be able to perform any of 
their respective obligations or undertakings under the Acuerdo Minero or the Acuerdos 
PASMA; and 
(e)
any of the Participating Provinces shall have issued any permit for 
Page  8
mining activities in a Provincial Protected Area, which permit affects or may affect, 
materially and adversely in the opinion of the Bank, the Provincial Protected Area in 
question.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) or (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have entered into Acuerdos PASMA with at least eight 
Participating Provinces, which Acuerdos PASMA are: (i) signed by the governor of the 
Participating Province; (ii) satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) identical in all 
relevant detail to similar agreements entered into by the Borrower with the provinces 
that participate in the PASMA I Project;
(b)
the Borrower shall have established and staffed the PCU, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
all action shall have been taken by the Borrower in order to permit that 
the procurement of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan be carried out in accordance with the provisions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that each Acuerdo PASMA entered into 
in satisfaction of the condition set forth in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with the terms of such Acuerdo PASMA.
Section 6.03. The date January 20, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided by Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras
  y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
Page  9
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                      248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.                64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services
74% of local expen-
ditures for services of
(a)
for the provision
  2,500,000
consultants domiciled
of training
within the territory of
the Borrower and 100%
(b)
for other purposes 10,100,000
of foreign expenditures
for services of other
consultants
(2)
Works
 13,600,000
85%
(3)
Goods
  7,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and, in the
case of local
expenditures, see 
paragraph 2 (b) below
(4)
Incremental recurrent
  4,800,000
80% until withdrawals
costs
under this Category
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
Page  10
$3,200,000; 60% until
withdrawals under this
Category have reached 
an aggregate amount
equivalent to
$4,500,000; and 30%
thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
  1,200,000
TOTAL              39,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower (in the 
case of disbursements for goods, the percentage of local expenditures to be financed 
by the Bank shall be 100% in the case of goods procured through the services of a 
tax-exempt procurement agent or 82% in the case of all other goods);
(c)
the term "works" means non-consultant services contracts for the 
execution of Part A of the Project, including cadastre positioning benchmarks, 
laboratory services, and upgrading of mining administration facilities; and
(d)
the term "incremental recurrent costs" means expenditures for the 
operation and maintenance of Project facilities, which expenditures would not have 
been incurred absent the Project, including:  (i) office supplies and general 
maintenance; (ii) services rendered by public utilities; (iii) operation and 
maintenance of office equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iv) 
domestic and international travel and per diems of personnel involved in Project 
management or execution; and (v) rental fees. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (4) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but 
after December 1, 1997; and
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made for expenditures under Part A of the Project 
for the benefit of a Participating Province unless:
(i)
such Participating Province has entered into an Acuerdo PASMA with 
the Borrower, signed by the governor of the Participating 
Province, satisfactory to the Bank and identical in all relevant 
detail to similar agreements entered into by the Borrower with the 
provinces that participate in the PASMA I Project; and
(ii)
the Bank has received a legal opinion, on behalf of the Borrower, 
from counsel acceptable to the Bank, indicating that the Acuerdo 
PASMA in question has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance 
with the terms of such Acuerdo PASMA.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for goods or works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
(b)
for the services (including training services) of individual consultants 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent;
(c)
for the services (including training services) of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and
(d)
for incremental recurrent costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
Page  11
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are:  (a) to support regulatory and institutional 
reforms that encourage the expansion of private investment in the Borrower’s mining 
sector; (b) to assist in building the capacity of the Participating Provinces for an 
efficient administration of mining rights; (c) to establish adequate environmental 
safeguards for the Borrower’s mining sector; and (d) to strengthen support services in 
the Borrower’s mining sector, including the provision of precise and reliable 
information on mineral resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Policy Implementation
1.
Institutional Capacity Development
 
Carrying out of an institutional framework development program comprising:
(a)
the implementation of the institutional model, developed under the PASMA 
I Project, for the mining sector of the Participating Provinces, including provision 
of training to officials of the Participating Provinces in mining sector 
administration, thus enhancing their managerial and technical skills; and
(b)
the upgrading of office facilities of DPMs and of other mining 
sector-related agencies of the Participating Provinces.
2.
Cadastre and Registry System
 
Transformation of the Participating Provinces' existing physical registries into 
modern mining cadastres.
3.
Environmental Management
 
Carrying out of an environmental management development program comprising:
(a)
the strengthening of the environmental management capacities of the 
Participating Provinces for:  (i) participating in the updating and application of 
environmental legislation, regulations, norms, procedures and standards with respect 
to the mining sector; (ii) establishing methodologies for the processing of exploration 
permits and mining concessions, ensuring that the requirements of environmental 
assessment and management programs are complied with and promoting public 
participation in the approval of such permits or concessions; and (iii) establishing 
appropriate monitoring, supervision and control procedures regarding environmental 
management programs, and occupational health and safety standards in the mining 
sector;
(b)
the provision of training to Participating Province personnel with 
respect to environmental management of the mining sector;
(c)
the upgrading of UGAP offices and field infrastructure, as well as of the 
facilities of other environmental agencies of the Participating Provinces; and
(d)
the carrying out of studies aimed at: (i) gathering, obtaining and 
analyzing the necessary information (including information on environmental matters 
such as baseline studies that will be conducted in each Participating Province) to be 
used in the preparation of domestic environmental norms and standards, and to assist 
the Participating Provinces in making decisions with respect to the approval of 
permits for location of mining facilities; and (ii) developing multidisciplinary 
research methodologies to be applied in socio-cultural and economic analyses, and 
developing socio-economic assessments, procedures and instruments related to mining 
(including participatory mechanisms for local communities).
4.
Information Infrastructure
 
(a)
Implementation of the a unified mining information system (BUD; Base 
Unica de Datos) in the Participating Provinces to manage the collection and 
Page  12
interpretation of mining information at the provincial, national and international 
levels (including the information obtained under other parts of the Project), such 
implementation to include:  (i) installation of  information systems and data bases 
developed under the PASMA I Project; and (ii) upgrading of the BUD’s offices and 
equipment infrastructure in the Participating Provinces.
(b)
Dissemination of mining sector information through:  (i) preparation, 
publication and distribution of statistics reports, printed and visual materials for 
educational or business presentations and promotion, technical manuals and sector 
studies; and (ii)
participation of sectoral staff in national and international 
mining trade shows and conferences.
Part B:
PCU
 
Operation of the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
    On each March 15 and September 15
          beginning September 15, 2003
          through March 15, 2013
$1,975,000
 
_____________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  13
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for computer hardware and software shall be carried out in 
two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Works (other than those relating to the upgrading of mining administration 
facilities), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,400,000 equivalent, which the 
Bank agrees can only be carried out by a limited number of contractors, regardless of 
the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than computer hardware and software) estimated to cost less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $900,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent 
per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,600,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works in 
accordance with this Part C.2, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
Page  14
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract or bid package for goods and works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods or works procured pursuant to 
Parts C.3 or C.4 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any such 
contract, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for accounting or auditing services under Part B of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Consultant services under Part A.3 (d) of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  15
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 2 (a) and 
(c) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of terms of reference shall be 
required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
Page  16
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  17
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
