Document of
The World BankFIEC                                     Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2754-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
March 31, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                 = Tanzanian shilling (Tsh.)
US$0.12                       =  Tsh 1.0
US$1.00                       =  Tsh 8.30
US$1,000                      =  Tsh 8,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
_                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (k)               =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. meter (m )              = 10.76 sq. ft
1 hectare (ha)                = 10,000 m = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)               =  2.204 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)          = 1,000 kg = 2,204 lb
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APO      - Assistant Production Officer
EDF      -  European Development Fund
GAPEX    -  General Agricultural Products Export Company
GOT      -  Government of Tanzania
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
IERR     -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
KILIMO   - Ministry of Agriculture
MDB      - Marketing Development Bureau of Kilimo
MOF      - Ministry of Finance
MOW      - Ministry of Works
NORAD    - Norwegian Agency for Development
PMO      -  Prime M:inister's Office
RIMU     -  Road Improvement and Maintenance Unit
TAN-ZAM  -  Tanzania-Zambia Highway
TAZARA   -  Tanzania-Zambia Railway
TECO     -  Tanganyika Extract Company
TIB      -  Tanzania Investment Bank
TPB      -  Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board
UAC      -  Uyole Agricultural Center
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
TPB FINANCIAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:             United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARIES:        Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board (TPB) and Uyole Agricultural
Center (UAC).
AMOUNT:               US$10.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                Standard
RELENDING TERMS:      US$4.0 million of the proceeds of the credit would be
onlent to TPB at an interest rate of 10% per annum
repayable in 10 years, including 5 years of grace;
US$1.7 million would be channeled to TPB as equity;
US$1.4 million would be passed on to UAC as a grant.
The exchange risk will be assumed fully by the Borrower.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:         The proposed project aims at increasing the production of
pyrethrum in the highlands of the Mbeya and Iringa Regions
of Southern Tanzania. Therefore, the project would finance
(a) a program to increase smallholder pyrethrum produc-
tion;
(b)  a program to strengthen pyrethrum research in
Tanzania;
(c) the strengthening of TPB's organization and
infrastructure; and
(d) the improvement and maintenance of district
and feeder roads.
RISKS:                A risk faced by the Project would be a future collapse of
pyrethrum export prices as a result of the development of
new substitutes. However, current research is aimed
mostly towards developing agricultural chemicals which
would not compete with pyrethrum. Also the costs of
licensing new insecticides protects pyrethrum's market
position.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED COSTS:                                                   US$ '000
Local    Foreign    Total
Program to increase and improve
pyrethrum production                1,269      1,107      2,376
Program to expand pyrethrum
research                              590        987      1,577
Strengthening TPB's organization
and infrastrtucture                 1,376      1,704      3,080
Improvement and maintenance of
district and feeder roads             614      1,905      2,519
Total Base Line Costs           3,849      5,703      9,552
Contingencies
Physical                             479        699      1,178
Price                                998      1,447      2,445
Project Costs                      5,326      7,849    13,175
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             4,846      7,849    12,695
(net of Taxes and Duties)
FINANCING PLAN:                                                US$ Million
Local    Foreign        Total
IDA Credit                         2.2        7.8         10.0
Government of Tanzania             2.7         -           2.7
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Total Project Costs         4.9        7.8          12.7
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:  IDA Fiscal Year  FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85   FY86
US$ Million
Annual             0.3      2.3      2.4      2.4      1.9    0.7
Cumulative         0.3      2.6      5.0      7.4      9.3   10.0
RATE OF RETURN    17%
APPRAISAL REPORT: Report No. 2749b,-TA, dated March 20, 1980



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A PYRETHRUM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$10.0 million equivalent on
standard terms to help finance a program to increase smallholder pyrethrum
production, a program to strengthen pyrethrum research in Tanzania and the
Tanganyika Extract Pyrethrum Board's (TPB) organization, and to improve and
maintain district and feeder roads. US$4.0 million of the proceeds of the
credit would be onlent to TPB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement which would
be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association including an interest
rate of 10% per annum, repayable in 10 years, including 5 years of grace.
US$1.7 million of the proceeds of the credit would be channeled by the
Tanzanian Government to TPB as equity and US$2.9 million to the Ministry of
Works (MOW); US$1.4 million would be passed on to the Uyole Agricultural
Center (UAC) as grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum will be issued later in this fiscal year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and about 70% of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated. Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
are under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report on
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project, dated February 13, 1980.



- 2 -
detailed Government investment planning.  The second major feature of
Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
distribution. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in the decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education beginning in 1977.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita.  While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
has recovered well with annual growth at 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978.
During this decade the service sector grew the fastest - 6.3% p.a., followed
by the industrial sector - 4.0% p.a. and then agriculture - 2.7% p.a.
6.        The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of this increase occurred before 1975-1976.
Since then revenue has been increasing at a rate below the GDP growth rate
(in 1974/75 revenue was 22% of GDP). This increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75,
the rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings
fluctuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell
to half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis
level in 1976 and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at
Tanzania' s income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975
the average urban rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
towards an increasing gap in the early 1960s. It is likely that the gap has
been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of agricultural
production and higher producer prices. However, regional income differentials
in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal urban sector
there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential
between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage earners from 50
to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, an informal sector has emerged
comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed workers with earnings
significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The policies of wage
restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975 should have a bene-
ficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribution, and the basic
needs oriented programs in rural water and health and in universal primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years.  Exports have failed
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy. The overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports



- 3 -
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (by an average of
about 7% in the years 1976-78), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-
measure subsistence sector, while the monetary sector has lagged well behind.
Over the last decade subsistence growth has averaged 5.1% per annum while
monetary sector growth has been only 2.3% per annum. This has led to a
severe retardation of growth of exports of agricultural products. This
failure of export growth has led to increasing dependency on foreign loans
and grants to pay for imports.
9.        A second problem that is becoming more serious is the deceleration
of the growth of government revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP
compared to most other developing countries, government revenues have been
growing more slowly than GDP in recent years. At the same time recurrent
expenditures have been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector
savings have been well below expectations and the Government has had to rely
more upon borrowing (both foreign and local) and external aid for financing
development than was planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government followed a program agreed to at the
time of the first Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to more productive sectors, higher agricul-
tural producer prices, constraints on wages and salaries, price and tax
increases to restrain consumption and tight control of imports. These poli-
cies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in keeping government
spending under control with low levels of borrowing from the banking system
and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$150 million in 1977.
Food production increased and government stocks of most foodgrains reached
record levels. In 1978 the Government was able to ease import restrictions
and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed by industry, which
had been running below capacity.
11.       Unfortunately the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began to
fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October, 1978
war broke out with Uganda and the resulting imports of military equipment and
domestic mobilization put an increasing strain on the balance of payments
and the domestic budget. Consequently the current account showed a deficit
of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the overall balance of payments was
almost US$300 million in deficit. As a result, reserves were drawn down and
the country was forced to delay payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation has deteriorated further in 1979 and the Government's
economic policies are facing a major challenge. The overall balance of
payments is expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit and as a result
arrears are expected to be about US$200 million by the end of the year. At
the same time the domestic budget deficit has ballooned. The recurrent budget
is expected to show a deficit of almost Tsh. 1 billion for 1978/79 and govern-
ment borrowing from the banking system is expected to be more than Tsh. 3
billion, a major component in an almost 35% increase in the money supply.



- 4 -
Import licenses have been reduced by almost 40% from the 1978 level in real
terms (following a 10% devaluation in January of 1979). The Government
has been able to arrange for almost US$75 million in funds from the IMF from
its first credit tranche, the Trust Fund and the Export Compensatory Fund, but
negotiations for further assistance from the IMF have so far been unsuccessful.
The 1979/80 budget calls for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure
and borrowing from the banking system of Tsh 1.67 billion, but through
the first quarter of this fiscal year borrowing was already Tsh 1.4 billion.
A major problem is lack of budgetary discipline as spending agencies have been
able to exceed their budgetary allocations with the Treasury continuing to
honor their checks. The Government urgently needs to develop a comprehensive
program to deal with the current crisis, as it did in 1974. The Bank has
offered to help the Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance.
Because of the very concessional tesrms on which this aid has been given to
Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use higher cost
commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service ratio has
historically been low (less than 10%). However, the recent balance of pay-
ments crisis has forced the Governmnent to utilize such loans and as a result
the debt service ratio is estimated at 12% in 1979 and 15% in 1980. We
expect it will remain in the range of 15-20% throughout the 1980's. In 1978
the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 28%)
and received 37% of Tanzania's debt service (40% for the Bank Group). We are
projecting this debt service share to fall to about 21% in 1980 and to remain
around 25% for the coming decade.
14.       Tanzania's development will require resources in excess of domestic
savings and external capital made available solely to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports to
the Partner States on the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corpora-
tions and the General Serv-ces, and the methodology adopted in appraising the
assets and liabilities. The next phase of the mediator's work will be to
make recommendations on the allocation of these assets and liabilities. The
mediator's report and recommendations on the future structure of the East
African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted in principle by the Partner
States and the revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty to enact the new
Charter have been submitted to the three Governments for signature.



- 5 -
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities had to take over the services
formerly provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the
EAC difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 40 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$759.5 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural
sector in Tanzania has included IDA credits totalling US$145.2 million and
IBRD loans totalling US$37.0 million for fifteen agricultural and three
rural development projects. Agricultural projects include one for agricul-
tural credit, three each for livestock and tobacco, two for cashewnuts and one
each for the production of tea, sugar, maize, fish, forestry products and
cotton. Rural Development Projects have been financed in the Kigoma, Tabora
and the Mwanza/Shinyanga Regions. Project Performance Audit Reports for the
Flue-Cured Tobacco Project and the Smallholder Tea Project have recently been
prepared. In both cases, the economic rate of return is satisfactory.
However, implementation experience highlighted the weakness of the parastatals
involved and the consequent need for considerable investment in institution-
building. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of this
Project. Furthermore, a number of recent Bank Group supported infrastructure
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project, dated February 13, 1980.



- 6 -
projects have bee.2 cKi-a ly linked with specific productive activities.  For
example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in January
1976, will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and
1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit No.
833-TA).  Other directly productive projects recently approved are the Mufindi
Pulp and Paper ProJect (Loan No. 1650-TA and Credit No. 875-TA) and the
Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited (TDFL) Project (Loan No.
1745-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 860-TA),
a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth Highway Project
(Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Executive Directors in FY79. A
fourth line of credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (Loan No. 1750-TA), a
credit for the Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project (Credit No. S-24-TA) and
a line of credit to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) have been
approved this fiscal year. Projects which have been appraised include a
Second Urban Water Supply Project, a Coconut Project, a Tea Processing
Project, an Education Project and a Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project.  A
rural development project in Mara Region, a small scale industries project, an
urban project, a harbours project, a railway project, and an agricultural
services project are also under preparation.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic re-
garding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic ad-
ministrative changes, which -- though potentially the source of long-term
benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. Also, the Uganda war (para. 11)
has had some impact on project implementation. In the early stages of the
war, there was some diversion of equipment and manpower; however these problems
have largely been solved. The problem over the medium term is the financial
implications of the war. If general economic problems resulting from the war
are not resolved, the availability of adequate local funds could become a
major constraint to implementation. In general, difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mwanza Textile and Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for example, are
proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion.  A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on



Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
11 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The need to establish
a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian
officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems was one of the prime
reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in
October 1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group review of
project implementation was established. Monthly discussions in Bank Group
financed projects chaired by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and attended by
Bank Group staff and officials from implementing agencies deal in detail with
individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project implemen-
tation across a number of sectors. As a result of these efforts, there has
been a noticeable improvement in project implementation. Actions agreed to
during the reviews have been completed relatively quickly and coordination and
communication between the MOF and the various ministries and agencies res-
ponsible for project implementation has improved markedly.
21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, MOF has set up a unit to oversee project per-
formance. Furthermore, there have been more consistent responses to Bank
suggestions and a willingness to openly discuss project problems raised by
Bank staff. As a consequence, the disbursement records of Bank Group financed
projects have improved somewhat over the last two years, and a recent analysis
indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is about equal to the
Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for further significant
improvements, the Government is implementing its investment program, including
Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effectively than in the
past.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND PYRETHRUM SUBSECTOR
Background
22.       Agriculture contributes approximately 50% to the GDP, about half of
it from subsisLence production. Agriculture and related activities thus
constitute the largest single sector in the Tanzanian economy, and agricul-
tural exports account for about 70% of total merchandise exports (see para 3).
The major export commodities are coffee, cotton, sisal, tobacco, tea and
cashewnuts. Over 90% of the population lives in rural areas and the vast
majority is engaged in agriculture.
23.       Most agricultural production is from family operated smallholdings.
Estate production has diminished in importance and the state farm area remains
relatively small. Large-scale agriculture is confined to the production of
sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, wheat, rice and livestock products.  Tanzania's
livestock herd, which is largely traditionally managed, is grazed extensively
over the 40% of the country free from tsetse fly.



- 8 -
24.       The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been somewhat
sluggish. Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of agri-
cultural production was about 2.7%, less than the estimated population growth.
The effects of this slow growth were exacerbated in 1973 and 1974 by a severe
drought, which necessitated large foodgrain imports. Since 1976, agricul-
tural production has increased in real terms at an average annual rate of 7%.
However, cash crop production has remained stagnant and despite increased
food-crop production, rising demand has resulted in a continued requirement
for imports of maize, rice and wheat.
25.       The Government of Tanzania has undertaken a comprehensive program
to support the development of the agricultural sector in conjunction with
efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable income distri-
bution. Within these objectives, the Government is paying particular atten-
tion to achieving self-sufficiency in food production. The proposed project
fits well into this strategy, since, although pyrethrum generates only about
1% of current foreign exchange earnings, there is substantial potential for
expanded output and earnings.
26.       A major thrust in the Government's program for agricultural and
rural development is the grouping of the country's rural populace into
villages, villagization, in order to facilitate the provision of infrastruc-
ture and services and to encourage self-reliance and a community approach to
rural development. There are now about 7,700 registered villages, containing
over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural population. The registered village
is intended to be the country's primnary social, economic and political unit,
with economic infrastructure owned by the village, economic services coordi-
nated at village level and basic social services provided to each village.
Early experience with villagization has been mixed, but it is too early to
judge how effectively villages will be able to meet their ambitious goals.
Agricultural Services
27.       Agricultural research is undertaken by a variety of Government
agencies, under the overall coordination of the Ministry of Agriculture
(Kilimo). However, research priorities have not always been firmly estab-
lished, research resources have not been allocated in accordance with develop-
ment priorities and field testing has to be increased to improve the farming
system in Tanzania's various agro-economic zones. Agricultural Extension
services are provided by staff of the regional administrations and by staff
of some cash-crop parastatals. Training of the extension staff is being
provided by Kilimo. Field staff are under-trained, inadequately supervised
and given limited managerial and logistical support. The situation has
worsened in 1978 by the appointment of many of the better-trained extension
staff as village managers. Their responsibility compared to the village
management technicians' and to the extension staff's has not been fully
clarified. Government agencies hold varying views on how extension should be
organized in the future and these differences must be resolved if the exten-
sion services are to be improved. Credit for the rural sector is provided



- 9 -
by the National Bank of Commerce (NBC), which is the sole source of short-
term credit for marketing parastatals' produce, and by the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (TRDB), which provides short-, medium- and long-term credit
to villages and farmers. The Association recently approved a project to
strengthen TRDB's operations (para. 18). Rural Transport Services are inade-
quate for the effi-cient movement of crops and inputs.  Only 10% of the road
network provides allweather service, the remainder are often impassable in the
rainy season. Rural roads are in especially poor condition. In addition, the
trucking fleet has been inadequate to service rural needs. The Government of
Tanzania's actions to address these problems are directed mainly at the
public sector; they include increased support for regional road constructior/
maintenance capacity and an IDA-assisted project to develop the public
trucking industry (Credit No. 743-TA).
Marketing and Pricing
28.       Parastatal organizations for major crops and livestock are respons-
ible for the marketing and processing activities. Since the Arusha Declara-
tion the Government of Tanzania has progressively enlarged the role and scope
of these institutions, placing severe strains on their physical and managerial
resources. As a result, the marketing system suffers from lack of competition,
high costs and poor services. The Government is aware of these problems and
is beginning to develop programs to address them. The Bank Group is assisting
in this process through its analysis of and support for parastatals involved
in agriculture projects.
29.       The control of producer and wholesale prices of all principal agricul-
tural crops (except vegetables, fruit, fish and eggs) is an important tool of
Government policy. The responsibility for the formulation of pricing recommend-
ations rests with Kilimo; the Market Development Bureau (NDB) in Kilimo
carries out annual price reviews for major crops, taking into account produc-
tion costs, the need for incentives to producers, the financial position of
parastatals and inter-regional equity.  MDB is currently being financed by
IDA, under the National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA) and would receive
further IDA funds and long-term technical assistance under the proposed Grain
Storage and Milling Project.
Pyrethrum Production and Yields
30.       The pyrethrum plant is a small perennial growing to some 60 cm in
height. Its dried flowers yield an extract, the active ingredients of which
(pyrethrins) have excellent insecticidal properties with no adverse environ-
mental side effects. It has a wider spectrum of activity than many other
insecticides and is effective against all common household insects. Despite
its long use (about 150 years) pyrethrum does not seem to have caused the
development of any significant degree of immunity in treated insect popula-
tions. Its sensitivity to sunlight makes pyrethrum unsuitable for agricul-
tural field use. However, because of its low mammalian toxicity it is used
primarily in food-related industries, homes and public buildings, and in
animal shelters, usually as a liquid spray or in aerosols. It is also used in



- 10 -
the form of creams and ointments, mosquito coils and sticks.  The residue
after extraction (pyrethrum marc) also has a commercial value as a cattle
feed Ingredient.
31.       An analysis of the future demand for pyrethrum must take into
account the developrmient of syrnthetic substitutes (pyrethroids) derived from
petrochemicalss However, while they have similar properties, no single
pyrethroid can tully matèi the natuiral product. In addition, the high costs
of testing and registering new insecticides makes it unlikely that new com-
pounds will be developed for the non-agricultural market. Finally, public
control of insecticide use favors pyrethrum which has a long record of safe
use. Therefore, despite some substitution pyrethrum remains competitive with
pyrethroids. Taking these factors and the effects of income and population
growth into account, world demand for pyrethrum is expected to remain at least
at its 1976 level of about 20,000 tons of flowers. World production is not
expected to approach this level for at least five years.
32.       Kenya, Tanzania and RwandLa are the world's largest producers of
pyrethrum accounting for over 90% of total production. Production in Tanzania
began orginally on large-scale estates and it was not until the early 1960s
that the crop was first introduced to smallholders. Presently, over 95% of
Tanzania's production comes from the highland areas of the Iringa and Mbeya
Regions of Southern Tanzania, and it is now grown almost exclusively by
smallholders. It is currently estimated that about 20,000 smallholder
families cultivate an average of 0.4 ha of pyrethrum each, giving a total
area of about 8,000 ha of pyrethrum. Pyrethrum is grown at altitudes above
1,800 m, in areas with a well-distributed annual rainfall of at least 1,000
mm. Because of the steepness of the terrain cultivation is mainly by hand.
33.       Annual production of dried flowers in Tanzania has fluctuated
sharply in the past. It reached a peak of over 6,300 m tons in 1966/67,
which, coupled with high production in Kenya, led to marketing.problems. The
consequent reduction in world prices, together with rising agricultural wages,
forced large-scale producers out of business, and production fell to 2,400 m
tons in 1969/70. Between then and 1974/75, annual production fluctuated
between 2,700 m tons and 4,700 m tonis. Since 1974/75, however, there has been
a steady downward trend in production, which was only 1,600 m tons in 1978/79.
This decline resulted from producer prices that were unattractive in relation
to the prices of competing crops (particularly maize) and from a lack of
improved planting material.
34.       Pyrethrum plants flower in the first year after planting, come into
full flower production in the second. and third years and produce declining
yields thereafter. Recommended practice is therefore to replant every three
years and also to rotate with either a grain crop or a period of fallow.
Pyrethrum flowers require drying before they can be collected from farmers for
processing. Rapid drying with a minimum of heat is desirable. Natural sun
drying is employed as far as possible. In some areas, however, limited
sunshine hours and wet weather for most of the year make natural drying
difficult.



- 11 -
35.       While no systematic data exists on present smallholder yields, a
study in 1974 put average annual dried flower yields (over the three-year
productive plant life) at 270 kg/ha, but present yields are estimated to have
fallen to an average of 200 kg/ha as a result of adverse climatic conditions
and the aging of plants in the absence of replanting. For the same reasons,
the average pyrethrin content of dried flowers (which is recorded at the
processing plant) which was around 1.25% until about 1970/71 has declined
to 1.1% in 1978/79.
Services to Pyrethrum Growers
36.       Pyrethrum research in Tanzania, which was halted in 1968 when world
market prices declined, was resumed in 1974. It is carried out by the staff
of the Uyole Agricultural Center (UAC), and focusses on the selection and
multiplication of high-yielding plants which have flowers of a high pyrethrin
content. The present research program is under-staffed and too small to
produce results in a reasonable time. Extension services provided to
pyrethrum growers are inadequate. The Mbeya and Iringa Regional Administra-
tions, which until 1977 were solely responsible for pyrethrum extension,
currently employ only about 160 field staff to cover over 1,000 villages.
TPB employs 13 Assistant Production Officers (APOs). Each APO is responsible
for about 1,500 growers. TPB's long-term objective is that its field staff
act as specialist pyrethrum advisers to the regional extension staff, but the
weakness of the regional extension service currently precludes this and it
would be unrealistic to expect major improvements over the next few years.
The Project would therefore provide only for a modest expansion of TPB field
staff, to enable TPB to manage the proposed program for the distribution of
planting material. Credit is not provided for pyrethrum production, since
pyrethrum cultivation requires no material inputs other than planting
material, which has been provided to farmers free of charge, and occasionally
pesticides. If improved planting material were charged for, many farmers
would not be able to afford the initial cost of establishing pyrethrum plots
and would, therefore, continue to use their present inferior material. The
scattered and isolated locations of pyrethrum producing villages, on the
other hand, would make a cost recovery system prohibitively expensive.
Pyrethrum Marketing and Processing
37.       Primary marketing of pyrethrum is conducted by TPB which buys
flowers from licensed growers on a cash basis. Both individual licenses
(about 800) and group licenses (about 300, mainly villages) have been issued
by TPB. Flower purchase is handled by TPB clerks operating in about 20 buying
centers/stores, by TPB mobile buying centers in remote areas and by about 90
villages which have qualified as TPB agents since they are registered, equipped
with adequate stores and have a literate Village Manager or Secretary. TPB's
buying centers/stores are mainly rented, and are in poor physical condition.
After purchase, flowers are transported to four main TPB stores on main roads,
and from there to the processing factory. These transport operations are
seriously constrained by the poor state of district and feeder roads and by
the inadequate and poorly-managed TPB transport fleet.



12 -
38.       Flower processing is currently undertaken by the Tanganyika Extract
Company (TECO), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of TPB located in Arusha.
TPB is currently constructing a new processing plant at Mafinga in Iringa
Region which is sited much more favourably with respect to the production
areas9 and which will have a capacity sufficient to handle all flower produc-
tion for the foreseeable future. The Arusha plant therefore would be closed
for pyrethrum processing and its staff transferred to the Mafinga plant once
the latter has been completed in 1980.
Producer and Export Prices
39.       The price paid to growers for dried flowers depends on the pyrethrin
content of the flowers. The current grading system provides for five grades,
ranging from flowers with less than 1.10% pyrethrin to more than 1.40%.
Producer prices are set by the Government (para. 29). Flower prices paid to
growers have been raised substantially in recent years. For example, a
farmer producing the lowest grade, with a pyrethrin content of less than
1.10%, received Tsh 4.00 per kg of dried flowers in the 1977/78 marketing
season. 1/ In the 1979/80 marketirLg season, the price is Tsh 5.50 and in the
1980/81 season will rise to Tsh 6.50. For flowers of higher pyrethrin
content, the rise has been even greater. At current prices, pyrethrum is
attractive to smallholders, and prices paid to producers for dried flowers
are expected to remain at current levels in real terms through 1983/84, and
thereafter, reflecting world market trends, to decline in real terms (para.
40). To also give TPB adequate margins, producer prices would need to fall by
2% per year in real terms and would! then stabilize in 1988/89 at levels
equivalent to about 90% of present producer prices. Analysis of farmer
returns indicates that pyrethrum production would remain attractive even at
these reduced levels of producer prices. Also, production of dried flowers is
expected to increase (see para. 41). In order to maintain pyrethrum producer
incenti-ves the Government of Tanzania would continue to review and adjust
producer prices annually taking into account the export price of pyrethrum,
TPB's costs for its operations and the producer prices of other crops (ref.
Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.       Supply of pyrethrum depends inter alia on climatic factors, and on
changes in producer price policies. Pyrethroids, on the other hand, are in
stable supply and pyrethrum supply instability, therefore, often forces insec-
ticide manufactures to substitute pyrethroids in periods of short pyrethrum
supply; these substitutions are not always reversed when pyrethrum supply
increases. However, with the rising costs of oil prices, the costs of produc-
tion of pyrethroids are going up since they are petro-chemical based compounds
and raw materials account for 80% of production costs. This makes pyrethrum
more attractive. Pyrethrum also benefits from tight regulation of insecticide
1/   TPD marketing seasons run from July 1 - June 30.



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
46.      A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Tanzania Pyrethrum Project"
(No. 2749b-TA) is being circulated separately. The Project was initially
prepared by the Government of Tanzania with assistance from the Bank's
Regional Mission in East Africa, as part of the National Agricultural Devel-
opment Program (NADP), which was appraised in June 1977. While a decision
was made at that time to divide the NADP into a number of projects, it was
not possible to complete the appraisal of the then proposed pyrethrum project.
After detailed reviews by consultants of various aspects of the Project,
preparation was completed in February 1979 and the Project was appraised in
April/May 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in February 1980. The
Government Delegation was headed by Dr. S.A. Madallali, Principal Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture. A Credit and Project Summary is at the front of
this report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is in Annex III.
Project Area
47.       The Project would be implemented in the pyrethrum growing areas of
the Iringa and Mbeya Regions of southern Tanzania (Map IBRD-14436). These
areas range from 1,700 m to 2,700 m in altitude, with annual rainfall of
1,000-1,800 m. Typical pyrethrum-growing farms range from about 1.4 ha -
2.6 ha in different parts of the project area. In addition to pyrethrum,
maize is widely planted, while wheat, peas, Irish potatoes, beans and sun-
flower are also grown.
48.       Although Mbeya and Iringa are, overall, among the wealthier regions
of Tanzania, the pyrethrum growing regions are relatively poor because of
their isolation and limited physical resources. The average annual per capita
income (including subsistence) of pyrethrum-growing families is estimated at
Tsh 650 (US$80) in 1979 prices. The absolute rural poverty level in Tanzania
is put at about US$105 (in 1979 prices) so that the majority of pyrethrum-
growing families (probably about 85%) have incomes below the absolute poverty
line.
General Description
49.       The Project would, over a five-year period, aim to raise the cash
incomes of smallholder pyrethrum growers in the highlands of Mbeya and Iringa
Regions by assisting them to expand their output of dried flowers through the
provision of planting material and improved research, extension, marketing and
road transport services. Specifically, the Project would provide for:
(a) the expansion of smallholder production through the production
and distribution of planting material, improved pest control,
the expansion of TPB's field staff, the improvement of drying
techniques, the construction of new TPB market centers/stores
and the expansion of TPB's transport fleet;



- 16 -
(b) the strengthening of UAC's pyrethrum research program through
the construction and equipping of additional laboratory
facilities, the funding of additional research staff and
research operations, and the training of staff;
(c) the strengthening of TPB's operations through the provision
of long-term and short-term technical assistance and staff
training, the constrtuction of new office accommodation for
TPB and the provision of vehicles for TPB headquarters staff;
(d)  the improvement and maintenance of feeder roads in pyrethrum
areas through the establishment and staffing of a Road
Improvement and Maintenance Unit (RIMU) and the financing
of the costs of RIMU's operations.
Detailed Features
(a) Smallholder production program
50.       Improved planting material would be multiplied initially at ten
bulking centers. The three existing bulking centers in Mbeya Region and the
three in Iringa Region would be expanded and four new centers established in
Iringa Region. The output of these bulking centers would be further multiplied
at small village nurseries located close to villages where planting material
is required. The resultant planting material would be distributed to farmers
free of charge (see para. 36) in order to ensure that farmers do not continue
to replant using their existing inferior material. TPB would continue to
produce and distribute improved planting material after the end of the ProJect
disbursement period (ref. Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement TPB).
51.       During the first three project years, while production of improved
planting material is building up, the production from seed and distribution
to farmers of unimproved planting material would be financed. This would
meet current needs for planting material in areas where it is in short supply.
During the three years of this activity seedlings sufficient for 1,600 ha
would be produced in village nurseries located close to the point of demand.
This unimproved planting material would also be made available to farmers free
of charge. As a result of this program, it is expected that the number of
pyrethrum growers would be increased by 4,000.
52.       To improve pest control, one hundred knapsack sprayers and a supply
of insecticide would be held by TPB staff in areas vulnerable to 'thrips,' an
L.tIestation which occurs sporadically in lower, warmer areas. Its incidence
is insufficient to make routine spraying economic, but it can cause serious
damage and spread rapidly if not controlled. The sprayers would be lent to
farmers free of charge when neecded; however, the farmers would pay for the
cost of the insecticides used.
53.       Incremental TPB field staff.  At present, only four of TPB's APOs
(see para. 36) are fully trained to certificate level. Twelve incremental



- 17 -
certificate level staff and two diplomates would be employed by TPB in the
first project year and a further four certificate-level staff in the second
project year to enable TPB to supervise planting material production and
distribution. This would still leave the level of extension service to
pyrethrum growers less intensive than desirable. In view of that, Kilimo,
TPB and the Mbeya and Iringa Regional Authorities would jointly review and
discuss with the Association not later than June 30, 1982 the adequacy of
extension services in the Project area, and if necessary, proposals for the
improvement of such services (ref. Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
54.       Flower drying techniques.  Present practices used for flower-drying
in the Project area (sun drying, barn drying and artificial drying in small
portable driers) are unsatisfactory since a considerable proportion of
pyrethrum is lost with all these techniques. Under the Project three experts
(a drying specialist, an economist and a draughtman) would be employed
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (ref. Section
2.02(e) of the draft Project Agreement TPB) for a total of ten months to draw
up proposals for the implementation of improved drying techniques for the
various climatic zones of the Project area, and Tsh 2 million (US$250,000)
would be provided under the Project to implement their recommendations.
Disbursements of funds for the improvement of drying facilities would be made
only after agreement has been reached between the Association and TPB on the
detailed proposals for the implementation of the experts' recommendations
(ref. Schedule 1 para 4(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       TPB buying centers/stores.  The present number, capacity and condi-
tions of TPB's buying centers/stores are inadequate, leading to some deteriora-
tion and spoilage of dried flowers, especially during the rainy season yhen the
collection can be delayed.  Stores (90 m  in size, except for one 175 m  store)
would therefore be constructed during the first three years of the Project in
twelve existing locations where facilities are inadequate, and in two new
locations.
56.       Transport.  Twelve 7-ton trucks would be provided to TPB for the
transport of dried flowers from TPB buying centers to its main stores. These
trucks would have specially-constructed high-sided bodies, since pyrethrum
flowers are bulky in relation to weight. Such trucks would be too specialized
to be attractive investments either for private truckers or regional trucking
companies. In addition, five four-wheel-drive vehicles and about 22 motor-
cycles would be provided to be used for the collection from pyrethrum pro-
ducing villages inaccessible to trucks and to improve the mobility of TPB's
field staff. The motorcycles would be purchased by field staff on a credit
basis from TPB, which would pay staff monthly operating allowances (ref.
Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement TPB).
(b) Pyrethrum Research Program
57.       The present pyrethrum research program conducted by UAC is under-
staffed, short of equipment and operating funds. It would be expanded and



- 18 -
strengthened under the Project; a full-time research officer would be recruited
and a unit for the tissue-culture of plant material established, staffed and
operated. A further three research off-stations besides the existing three
would be set up and staffed to enable pyrethrum research trials to be carried
out under the range of conditions in the Project area. In addition, a unit
would be set up and staffed at the Mafinga plant to provide for the rapid
analysis and feedback to research staff of the pyrethrum content of research
planting material. Funds wouldl be provided for the training of Tanzanian
research staff, for UAC to enable it to obtain long-term research support
from an institution, probably a university with expertise in tissue-culture
technique and for interchange cf information and planting material between
UAC and other international pyrethrum research centers.  Housing and transport
would be provided for incremental staff, and the operating costs of the
expanded research program would be met under the Project. The Government
would continue, after the completion of disbursements under the Credit, to
provide adequate funds for the continued operation of the expanded research
program (ref. Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(c) Strengthening of TPB
58.       TPB's responsibilities have grown over the past few years; its
capac. y to effectively deliver these would be strengthened under the Project.
Three key staff would be recruited by TPB: a Financial Controller, a Planning
and Production Agronomist to have responsibility, under the TPB Planning and
Production Manager, for planning of the smallholder component, and a Field
Agronomist, who would assist the TPB Iringa and Mbeya Regional Managers with
day-to-day implementation. In addition, a Transport Officer, a Cost Accoun-
tant, an Internal Auditor, a Planning Officer, a Statistician/Evaluation
Officer and a Procurement Officer would be locally recruited and financed
under the Project. A total of 6 months of short-term consultancies would
also be provided for an improved transport management system for TPB to be
formulated by the National Institute of Productivity in Dar es Salaam.
Completion of this latter study, and agreement between TPB and the Association
on implementation of its recommendations, would be a condition of disbursement
against the funds allocated for the trucks, four-wheel-drive vehicles and
motorcycles to be purchased by TPB (ref. Schedule 1 para. 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Funds would be provided for the training of
TPB's field and headquarters staff either locally or abroad.
59.       A new TPB head office (of 1150 m ) would be constructed in Iringa;
the present headquarters in Dar es Salaam is inadequate and too far from
the growing areas. A new Iringa regional office in Njombe, a new Mbeya
regiondl office in Nbeya town (both of 190 m ) and a new district office
(100 m ) in Makete would be constructed. In view of the chronic housing
shortage, a total of ten senior staff houses, fourteen middle-level staff
houses and one junior staff house would be constructed. The Government would
assist TPB as necessary to acquire the sites for these houses and offices (see
also para. 67; ref. Section 3.11 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



I
- 19 -
(d) Road Improvement and Maintenance
60.       The Project would finance the improvement and maintenance of about
200 km of selected feeder roads in the Project area; these roads were selected
by the Government following a survey of over 400 km of roads. Criteria for
inclusion in the program were the present road condition, the volume of
pyrethrum traffic carried and the economic rate of return for each road. The
roads included are almost equally divided between Iringa and Mbeya regions.
The roads would be improved to standards which would permit all weather
access by 7-ton trucks. It is expected that the road component would result
in a 10% saving in pyrethrum content of flowers being transported over these
improved roads.
61.       The Road Improvement and Maintenance Unit (RIMU) would be established
under the Project not later thati March 31, 1981. RIMU would carry out the
road improvement program over a three year period (beginning in year two) by
force account under the administrative control of MOW (ref. Section 3.03 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). During this period the RIMU would
improve the selected roads and would also maintain the roads it has improved.
The Project therefore would cover maintenance costs (approximately 10% of the
road component) due to the difficulty of attempting to separate improvement
and maintenance costs incurred by a unit set up to do both. Equipment and
spare parts for the RIMU would be procured and housing, office and workshop
accommodation constructed. A Roads Engineer, a Construction Supervisor and a
Mechanical Supervisor would be recruited to manage the RIMU, which would also
employ about 135 local staff. The RIMU would be based in Mbeya, the major
town most convenient to its operations. The Project would finance the costs
of RIMU's operations, including the salaries, wages and materials, such as
cement, steel, lumber, tires, fuel oil and lubricants.
62.       Other methods of implementing the proposed road improvement and
maintenance component were explored during Project preparation and appraisal.
In particular, it was decided that the regional Works Divisions in Mbeya and
Iringa would not be able to handle the responsibility for the next few years.
However, by the end of the road construction period they would have bene-
fitted from considerable technical assistance from NORAD and the EDF. The
future of the RIMU, the use of its equipment and the responsibility for the
maintenance of the Project roads would therefore be determined towards the end
of the Project period (ref. Sections 3.06 and 4.02 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government would budget adequate funds for the mainte-
nance, during the Project period, of all main and local main roads used for
pyrethrum transport, and after the construction period for the maintenance
of Project roads (ref. Sections 3.05 and 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
63.       The total costs of the Project would be Tsh 109.4 million (US$13.2
million), of which US$7.8 million (60%) represents the foreign exchange
costs. These costs include about Tsh 4.0 million (US$0.5 million) of taxes



- 20 -
and duties. Physical contingencies have been included at a rate of 20% on
the costs of work and equipment for the research component and at a rate of
10% on all other costs except the lump sum for improved dryers. Price contin-
gencies total 26% of Project base line costs. Included also are a total
of 30 years of long-term technical assistance (US$70,000/year) and 20 months
of short-term consultancy services (US$9,000/month), bringing the total to
US$2.4 million. Details of Project costs are included in the credit and
project summary. The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million would finance
about 79% of total Project costs - all the foreign exchange costs and 44% of
local costs. The Government of Tanzania would provide the remaining US$3.2
million (US$2.7 million net of taxes and duties).
64.       Part of the Credit woul,d be passed on by the Government to TPB in
the Eorm of equity for the financing of the smallholder production component;
the pyrethrum research program would be financed on a grant basis, and funds
for the strengthening of TPB's operational capacity would be on-lent by the
Government to TPB (see also para. 1). The division of funds between equity
and loan for TPB is in accordance with the Government's policy that "non-
commercial" parastatal investments be financed by grants or equity while
'commercial" investments, which are expected to generate a financial rate of
return to the parastatal (for TPB see para. 43), should be financed by loans.
Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of Tanzania and
TPB would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (ref. Section 6.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
65.       Vehicles, road equipment and associated spare parts financed under
the Project would be bulked as far as possible and orders of US$100,000
and above would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in acc6rdance with Bank Group guidelines (ref. Schedule 3 Part A para. 3 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). In the evaluation of bids, qualified
domestic manufacturers would be accorded a preference of 15% or the existing
rate of duty, whichever is lower. Procurement of vehicles and road equipment
which could not be bulked in packages of US$100,000 equivalent would be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures
which are acceptable to the Association provided that the aggregate amounts
of such purchases do not exceed US$300,000 equivalent (ref. Schedule 3 Part C
para. 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Tools, sprayers, in-
secticides, fertilizers and nematocides for the smallholder production
component, and tires, fuel, oils and other materials and supplies for the road
component would be bulked to the maximum extent possible and also procured in
accordance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures. Civil works
contracts for the construction of buying centers/stores, offices, workshops,
laboratory facilities and staff housing would be too small and scattered to
attract international interest; procurement would therefore be by contracts
awarded following locally advertised competitive bidding; foreign firms would
be entitled to compete (ref. Schedule 3 Part C of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 21 -
66.       Disbursements would be on the basis of 100% of the foreign expend-
tures and 85% of local expenditures on vehicles, road equipment and spare
parts; 95% of the costs of construction of offices, houses, laboratory facili-
ties, buying centers/stores and workshop; 100% of foreign expenditures for
drying facilities; 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
on internationally-recruited staff, consultants and training; 85% of salaries
of incremental TPB and UAC staff; and 85% of the local costs of operation
(other than internationally-recruited staff costs) of the RIMU (ref. Schedule
1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). All disbursements would be
against contracts or on the basis of certificates of expenditure. Expenditures
not exceeding the equivalent of US$140,000 for consultant services and the
transport management study incurred after February 15, 1980 would be financed
retroactively under the Credit (ref. Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
67.       TPB, as strengthened under the Project, would have responsibility
for implementation of the smallholder production component. UAC would have
responsibility for carrying out the expanded research program, and the MOW
would provide administrative and technical support to the RIMU which would
implement the road component. The three institutions would carry out the
Project in accordance with detailed annual work plans, which would be sent
to the Association for review (ref. Sections 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement, 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement TPB and 2.03 of the
draft Project Agreement UAC). The Government would assist TPB, UAC and RIMU
as necessary to acquire the sites for the staff houses and offices to be
constructed under the Project (ref. Section 3.11 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
68.    - The Association would be consulted on the qualifications and exper-
ience of candidates for the posts of Financial Controller, Planning and
Production Agronomist, Field Agronomist, Research Officer, Roads Engineer,
Construction Supervisor and Mechanical Supervisor. The experts, consultants
and staff financed under the Project would be employed under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association. The appointment of the Financial
Controller would be a condition of credit effectiveness; the Research Officer,
the Planning and Production Agronomist and the Field Agronomist would be
appointed no later than September 30, 1980; the Road Engineer, Mechanical
Superintendent and Construction Supervisor would be appointed no later than
March 31, 1981. The positions of Planning and Production Manager, Iringa
Regional Manager and Mbeya Regional Manager would continue to be filled at
all times by suitably qualified staff (ref. Section 3.04 of the draft Project
Agreement TPB).
Accounts, Auditing, MonitorinR and Reporting
69.       Separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project would
be kept by TPB, UAC and RIMU. These accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association (ref. Sections 4.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement, 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement TPB and
4.01 of the draft Project Agreement UAC), and submitted within six months of



- 22 -
the end of each financial year. The auditors would specifically review and
comment on the procedures used for control of disbursements against certifi-
cates of expenditure. By August 31, 1981 TPB would, through the incremental
staff financed under the Project (see para. 58), have up-dated its accounts
and began the implementation of improved financial systems. The accounts of
the UAC are currently up-to-date.
70.       The progress of Project: implementation would be monitored closely
by the Planning and Production Manager of TPB, who would submit detailed
quarterly reports of physical implementation and the use of funds to the
Executive Officer of TPB, the Director of Roads and Aerodromes (MOW), the
Managing Director of UAC and the Principal Secretary of Kilimo, and to the
Association. Reports on the progress of the research and road components
would be made available to TPB by the Research Officer and the Roads Engineer,
respectively. Within six months of the completion of disbursements, TPB would
prepare and submit to the Association a Project Completion Report, analyzing
the implementation of the Project and its impact in relation to its objectives
(ref. Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Justification
71.       The proposed Project aims at raising farm incomes by about 17% to
almost Tsh 3,000 (US$360) per family. These direct benefits from the Project
would accrue to about 37,000 pyrethrum producing families (about 200,000
individuals) about 85% of whom are estimated to have incomes below the
absolute poverty level. The Project is further expected to result in an
annual incremental production of 37 m tons of extract and 424 m tons of marc
by 1984/85 (the last year of disbursements) with an export value of Tsh 13.7
million (at January 1980 prices). At full development (1989/90), annual
incremental production is expected to be worth about Tsh 27 million (in
1980 prices).
72.       The Project would have a marginally positive effect on TPB's finan-
cial position. With the Project, TPB's projected income statements show
that, while TPB would make losses up to FY83, thereafter it would make
positive after-tax profits ranging from 5% to 10% of net worth. Its long
term debt/net worth ratio would reach a peak of 1.2:1 in FY82 and 83 and
decline thereafter as TPB repays all its long-term debt by FY90. TPB's
overdraft would be eliminated by FY90. TPB's projected cash flow indicates
that TPB would experience a consistently positive cash inflow, over the
period a cumulative net cash inflcow of Tsh 21.5 million. Overall, TPB's
financial prospects would be satisfactory. The financial rate of return on
TPB investments (in constant 1980 prices) is estimated at 8% and the pre-tax
rate of return on equity at 9%. Ihe financial rate of return is acceptable
and the rate of return on equity is satisfactory. The Project would have a
strongly positive effect on the Government foreign exchange flows, but would
require net continuing Government expenditures for road maintenance and for
continuation of the expanded research program.



- 23 -
Economic Analysis and Risks
73.       The major quantifiable benefits of the Project would be the in-
cremental foreign exchange earnings from extract and marc exports, and road
user cost savings resulting from the road component. The Project is also
expected to generate unquantifiable benefits resulting from improved flower
drying, better planting material produced by the research program and the TPB
better able to service pyrethrum growers. The overall economic rate of return
of the project is estimated at 17%. The smallholder production program,
together with the costs of strengthening TPB, has a rate of return estimated
at 18%, while the road component has a rate of return of about 11%. The
rate of return for the project is relatively insensitive to changes in costs
or benefits. A 10% reduction in benefits or increase in costs would reduce
the rate of return to about 15%, and to about 12% if both events would occur
simultaneously. 83% of project costs have been included in the economic
analysis.
74.       The Project is not expected to have any undesirable environmental
effects. However, a major risk faced by the project would be a future
collapse of pyrethrum export prices as a result of the development of new
substitutes, since the existing pyrethroids cannot match natural pyrethrins
in terms of knock-down, kill or flushing-out effect. Also, current research
is aimed mostly towards developing agricultural chemicals which would not
compete with pyrethrum. Finally, the cost of licensing new insecticides
protects pyrethrum's market position. A further major risk is that implemen-
tation would proceed at a slower pace than anticipated, as a result of insti-
tutional deficiencies within TPB, RIMU or UAC. This risk has been minimized
by inclusion of substantial amounts of technical assistance for the agencies
involved. Analysis also indicates that the rate of return would remain
acceptable even if expected benefits are lagged by two years.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the International Development Association, the draft Project
Agreements between IDA and TPB, and between IDA and the UAC and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Annex III contains special features of the draft Development Credit
and the Project Agreements. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness
are: (1) that a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association,
shall have been signed between the Government of Tanzania and the Tanganyika
Pyrethrum Board and (2) that a financial controller with appropriate qualifi-
cations and experience shall have been appointed after consultation with the
Association (ref. Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Conditions precedent to the disbursement of funds allocated for improved
drying facilities and vehicles would be that agreement has been reached



- 24 -
between the Association and TPB on the implementation of the experts' recom-
mendations on improved drying facilities and on a study on TPB's transport
management system, respectively (ref. Schedule 1 para. 4(a) (B and C) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 31, 1980



-25-                                                     -Jfni £
pace . of 6
CASLE 3A
.ANlZALA - SOCIAL 119tCATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANCIA2E GOUS 1AO..USCI.E  4121A
-kAD 7AtEA (-XOUSASC SQ. KM.)                                                      4- OST 3ZCz2C ESTtIXATI)
mOCAL              945.                                                        SAME          SAKE      57t dIG
WR;ICULIUJRAL     510.1                                    MOST ICEIC        GZCCAPSIC    2ClOC           L!4CoKE
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESCIMATE  b         &0ION  _c  GtOU? ld    2101P /t
c:ir 'U  CAP?'A (CS$)                     70.0        120.0      230.3             306.1       209.6        -67.5
ENElCY CONS-S:yC0N ?ER cUAtPA
I.L.GOaM3S GF COAL  CUtVhLNC1)         4L.0          62.0       6d.0              80.6        83.9        262.1
?O?∂3tATIO AND TtTAL. STATIStICS
PO?∂LIO8, ALD-St.AA  (h2.L-ONS)       :0.2          13.3       16.4
318A  POPULATtON (7PCIEIT 01 TOTAL)  4.8              6.9        9.2.             17.1        L6.2         24.6
POPULAtIOKN POJEC=tONS
POPULATON M  YL'R ZOOO (MILLIONS)                             32.0
STATIONARY POPFAT1ION (MILLIONS)                              94.0
TEAR STATIONARY ?PO0LATION  LS UL&CIED                      2145
POPULACTION DENIS ITT
?ER SQ. cm.                          11.0          14.0       17.0             18.4         49.4         45.3
?ER sQ. iQ. ACtCECL-URAJ LAND        21.0          Z6.0       32.0             50.8        252.0        149.0
POPULATION ACE STSUCTZ (PERCENT)
0-L4 RS.                             46..          46.5       46.0              44.1        43.1         45.2
15-64 (15.                            51.3          51.1       51.0             5Z.9         53.2         51.9
S5 YTS. A2X ABOVt                      2.6           2.4        3.0               2.8         3.0          2.8
POPUlLATION GROW       RT  (PEKC7  )
TOTAL                                 2.2           2.7        3.0               2.7         2.4          2.7
U&.AN                                 5.0           6.3        8.5               5.7        4S6           4.3
:tDE B  T!H &An  (?tU SOiSAN3)          47.3         47.0      4S.0               46.3        42.4         39.4
CRLE DEATH RATE (1E  THOUSAIS)          2Z.0         19.0       16.0              17.2        15.9         11.7
'ROSS REYPOOUCTION RATE                   ..          3.2        3.2               3.1         2.9          2. 7
FAMILY FlINING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TRCUSANDS)           ..           ..       93.6
USRS (?ERCENT OF MARI=  WOMES)    ..                 ..         ..                ..        12.2         13.2
'OOD AnD MTlRITTON
'-YE OF OOD ?RODUCfTON
PM CAPITA (1969-71-100)              95.3         104.0       93.0             94.3         98.2         99.6
.3R CAPLTA SUPPLY O0
CALORIES (YP1CENT or
8EQUIREsaTS)                       69.0         88.0       66.0              89.5        93.3          94.7
?PM52.MS (GRAMS ?2t DAY)             42.0          43.0       47.1             55.8         52.1         S4.3
Of WttCB ASI.XbL AXD PULSE         22.0/h        23.0       20.0              17.9        13.6         17.4
CHILD (A.IC3  -4) MORTALITY BATE        32.0         25.0       20.0              22.3        18.5          11.4
HE.ALTH
* .L'EXPECTANCT XT    TS (TmAS)         42.0         47.0       51.0              47.0        49.3         54.7
ISNAMY MORATALITY iASE (PR
hOUSAYD)                                  *-        155.O      125.0                ..       105.4         68.1
*CC_SS tO SAFE WATSE (YERCEIN o0
?OPLATION)
OTAL                                   ''        UL.0        39.0              20.3        26.3         34.4
'J5AM                                  ..          Sl.O       88.0              53.9        58.5         57.9
RURAL                                   ..          9.0       36.0              10.1        15.S        211.2
ACCESS 7O E0CRETA DISPOSAL ( PE7C-S-
OF  POPULATION)
,OTAL                                  ..           ..        17.0             22.5         16.0         40.8
MtBAN                  *....                                  1'8 .0           62. 5        65. 1        71.3
RHRAL                                   ..           ..       14.0              13.9         3.5         27.7
?POCLA:-:0  ?P  ?ElyS:CA21          ":000.0/t   20677.3   'S490.3/1            17424.7    11396.4        6799.4
POP'IA--GN  PER    S,-NC ?'SON       3300.0/tt  4641.0    3300.07,             .506.6       5552.4       1522.1
POP0'LATION ?ER. &OSPLTAL 3ED
.OCAL                               575.0/S      684.0          ..            502.3       1411.1        726.5
CPSAN                                   ..           ..         ..            201.4        197.3        272.7
IUXAI.                                  ..           ..         ..           1403. 6     2445.9        1404.4
AOCISSIONS ?!R SOS?t-AL 3E3               ..           ..         ..              23.4        24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVYAGEt SIZE OF SOUSELOLD
T,7AL                                                . L                           9          .S.4
lOCAL                                   .. AS3.1                . .              4.9         4.9          5.1
IURAL                                   *           4-5/8      5. 3             5.-          5.            5
AVMEAGE  a4a1 OF ?!RSONS ?ER ROOM
IOTAL                                  ..            ..         ..
1215AM                                  ..           ..         ..                .            ..
WiRAL                                   ..          ..          ..                .            ..
ACCESS TO IL!CRIIC'T  "?ERCE47T
3F GWiL-;NGS)
O.AL                                   ..            ..         ..               ..         22.5         28.1
235AM                                  ..           ..         ..                ..         17.6         .5.1
1LL                    ..            .         .. ~~~~~-          .          ..          9. 8



-26-                                               Annex I
Faso 2 of 6
,?ABLE 3A
TANZANItA - SOCIAL  NDIECATORS 0ATA S-dEE-
'rX'2AN2A           ~~.tEFRE7LCZ CRCUI7S ( AZ4IST!0 .iE.RAOES
-M'OST 1AT RECENT E  ZS- 1A  C ) -
SAllE        ShZ       NZE  IGER
.1OST RECEN4T     M OCRA?HIC    INC0KZ        -64COM
1960 lb      1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REC7.0N 'c   CRCt;? /4      GOU? /a
ED'UCATION
ADJl.STt     OLI'1ET RATIOS
PRfiAY:      TOTAL                  28.0         38.0        70.0              59.0        63.3         d2.7
MALE                   37.0         46.0        79.0             64.2         79.1         87.3
TDMALE                 20.0         30.0       60.0              44.2        48.4          75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    2.3           3.0        3.0               9.0        16.7         :1.4
LALIE                   2.0          4.0         5.0             12.0         22.1         33.0
FEALLE                  1.0          2.0         2.0              4.4        10.2          15.S
VOCATIONAL EnOL. (' 0Y SEC0KONAIl)  23.0               ..         ..               7.0         5.6           9.d
7U? 1L-TEAC5EX  RAT,O
M-ARL Y                              45.0         46.0        50.0             42.2         ^1.0        3'.1
SECONcDA                             20.0          19.0       20.0             22.9         21.7         23.4
ADMT  LI ZRACI RATE (PERcMT)             9.5/i       2S.11j    66.0               20.8        31.2          54.0
PASSLNGER  A-. S ?E. 'MEOUSAND
POPULATTON                            3.0           2.5        2.8               4.0         2.8          9.3
RADIO R.ECEIVERS PFr THOUSAND
?0PU'LATION                           2.0          11.0       19.0             44.3         27.2         76.9
rV RECEIVERS FMll TEOUSA,n
POPULATION                              ..          0.3         ..               2.9         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("3ArLY CMEtAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
rEDUSANO POPULATION                      3.0          5.0        4.5               5.6         5.3          18.3
C7NEILA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5              ..        0.2               0.4         1.1           2.5
LABOR FORCG'
TOTAL LA3CR FORCE (CTOUSAMMS)        4573.0        5769.0    5488.0
F-ALZ (PERCENT)                     37.1          36.6       36.3             31.9         24.8         29.2
'CR.CULT! (t1ClSIE)                  S9.3          86.0 O      4.0              77.6        69.4         62.7
INTUSTR? (PERCENT)                    3.8           5.0        6.0               7.9        10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
MOTA.L                                  46.7         43.5       42.2              40.8        36.9          37.1
KALE                                    56.9         55.7       54.3              53.9        52.4          48.3
FMMALE                                  32.5         31.5       30.3              25.6        18.0          20.4
ECONOMIC 0EPENDLNCY RAT'O                  1.1          1.1         1.2              1.2         1.2           1.4
IYCO1 DISTRI1O'TION
?ERCENT OF PRIVATE LNC0t
9C£E IrED aY
RlIrHEST 5 PERCENT OF E0USER0LDS        ..         33.5         ..                ..          ..          15.2
RICHEST 20 PECENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..              63.3         ..                ..          ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF EOUSEI'iOLDS      ..           2.3         ..                ..          ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 ?ERCENT OF ROUSEaOLDS        ..           7.8                                                  16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIY.ATED A350LUTE POVEgTYf IYCOME
LVEVL (USS PER CAPITA)
.AN-                                    ..           ..      117.0             187.6        99.2        241.3
iIRAL'                                  ..           ..       89.0              96.8        78.9        136.6
ES. IY'AT7D aIA:: vE ?0vZRT1 INCCOM
LEV.LL (USS PREi CAPITA)
URBSAN                                  ..           ..       97.0             138.4        91.9        !79.7
RURAL                                   ..           ..       61.0              71.0        54.3        103.7
ESTDIATE7D POP tLA.::N SELOW AB3SOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM  L'_VEL (PERCENT)
UR3AN                                   ..           ..       25.0             34.5         46.1         24.8
SiSAL                                   ..           ..       85.0             4a.7         53.9         37.;
Nor avdalable
INo  applUcabla.
NrOTES
a    -he ad,.s 4ed group averages for each  indicator are populato-'omeighted geozetz-c means, excluding Ohe extreme
values o' che lIndicator and che most poquiated counr:y in eacr  group.  Coverage of zour.n:ies among the
indicarors depends on availabili:7 of dara acid is aor unlfor2.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any Fear betveen 1959 and !961; for '970,  ere-een 1969
aod 1971; and for Moor Fecenc Estiaate, zetweer 1974 and 1977.
.c   -A-frica Souch of Sahar;   (d  L2vw bncoe (52690 or less Per capita, 1976);   '   .nwer Middle 7:corn
';2S1-550 per capi:a, L976);   If  M.io'and 7anzania;    j  L967;   :h  ;961-3;    i 962;                    RFass-
cered, nor all practice In the 7ouatry.
MSosC R cer  s3iaCre Of GNP p.r capira is for L978.
auguat  ; 979



-27-
TTOMo  400!A0  MIA                                                             Page   3   of   6
N0.C.-   A1t4544 tb. loc  ... Ao.o  free .otoo   e-o0Slly judWo  cm. vemt Woo40riltatw  ad 0018M.4. It .4so84 '.1. 4. "olo  fb.o  cbor ' uoy 0. 4  lis?.-
-oaal 11y   bevalblo  o..s.4o of  h.4 10.6 of o.a.ertoe104 JftaiOlob  o.4 ooo-pa.  0.  by difteet oeo.rU1. t. ..14.otiog oh. 4.0...  040  -o.T.eot.o4L.o..
-o  1 -1  o-4.tib.. 00.00  Of besetIlod  * £01--0 toad." *  d   "os00OteI.o s.0101  to), 4.010... boOn.. oniao..
Th   looo   o0  o,..   fo  Web04  104i400" *0  pnopL.tob-bghto4 zooetri. s.e-. to Irdi.g oh. ool                       osleb  of th. 141i-1.  O4 Ch.  -ta
.ogolood *oo  L. 1  -h'        Co.oo.goo  ,.s,0i.s            Ch. Iol.o4p.O      ...LOyof 4.'. sod I.  -a'sIoo                         .         C.ao 1-k.0  'f  u,
Ioo  .oo ., o  Cot."         Oil1.  01.1p.otolo   amd tedleat., of aobee- -. -Ur* -od .oo,o.. 8t.WOs.I  hosol. 10.4.. 410- bt11  O04 p..-7 o.
0 low1. poel,o±oo-o.t.g400   vome011t  wobe 0i14d0f 040 ONCI0IO  of 00000  oIobe..
Tn.Total - TO    -r4.  r-0 -OWTl01t  la-d At.. Mt4 IsIad  Mt000.                         01 . .0  n.1 - 104404 by 0.10 obv.ov_.Ol     .6., of h0.p11.L 404.
- 5w4t .000  0001000  Of  gL0W1tx01  at"owetd tU@tOo±1y                    o,IA&lbe1O Ia  411  aed P01.t0 soor..1 Sad  speew.1100  b"ital .0  go-
o .raeub"C.o.y for  "N.o,  400.    0A.06.0 d kstbtoho. 044.0 or- to                 b4bL.UOCiC.  0ORC C.-  H.OPItlto     a......tbL.Me. pa.soaomf.y .0.10.4 by
11. foLIce.                                                                           at loas0 -   P4704010.  1.0*4k11.5...  ... 1t4o t1o"          p.ly     odi..
coxv Or. wet 10410404.  Rural  .p1.. 54we ?.b 1.01sf. 54114 ad  -A1-
179 IPlO 147A (US$) - tOP pot  -Pt  -4u      t   at0400   =CTft Moobot polo...          00I  ab*UrS Mt p.o.msbtly etaffd. by a  k"tyloL.  (Weot by a todlol on
00100.1.0.4 by om     -"C`Eoolo.0104   .s 4.01A 0.04 I0.1  (1971-f7 4."1*)1            oltOetno. .10.U0.           ct.) ohiob off, io-vatleet 000mo"0I0 Ot 5
1960. 1970.  41977 40.Pt-"l. . Ile.4d0.4 rs. of -d..14  foo±lulCt.
401.10.  . 40o.lol Wed - Total tabb, of  d4.A4.Lo.    or 0t d±.koolo
INKICT C05sfPr407W PO CIAPT- oo..1   ..Wo±.   of o,ommealca  W.vy                         f,   40Ipt." AIylio  by oS. o.or of W0owL.
104.1 .o liai±t., P.Cotlslo. 04t.10.  a"0 004 wyero-.. 044±400 o4 se-
tbooo,J  .1u.Iootyl 10 bilo.900w` of 0041 oqt±W0±00  Per =0911..                  _______
A-rU00  .100 of hoo.hold± (oCoog. Per h000..4010  - taoW. 40boo   -d4 fto-1-
P09114t10  AND? V'ITAL STAflOTICS                                                        A hoo...l tILoi.Co. of A &Trop of 1o4Aellooo   h.4  B.C.0 11,10  4-41100
Totlro1..o.  1-00  (lIot   -A. of 211y I.- If .ot                                       AN±1bo.s   C4.1' 010 Neal..  A  0g,or 10400   Oy 0-  Oy W0e 4. 14..d.  L.0
00lg   r too_ 4po   oot.o;190   40  .od 197  00-0                                t40 40..00401d tor .00*.01Po.."...  SotIotloat .L 441ltlOo   Of 400.-
0r4   oootc   orot of 000.1) -410o  tbo  to totl PO.poI-                                 Mid1-YtT.
lion; flffn.o   d.fiolllo   of Orbs" -to  toy offoot oOfpt"WliIy                    A-.!.!o o."Or of   ...oo. .Iro         .- t.I. ol... 00  r%a.l - Al..gaoo.-
dfdt   o   onea.too   oOO    o   o  ...1it. -                                                                        14.0. -0.4 tota,Octpto                  Aaoolo
PoT  *o. 40. - 1114-yoor popolotlo.POT "-C.T k4Xtmto: (100 'o"C"...)          .4.ot,ld part..
Poe So. 04. gart-1ll-9 1.04 - Coto-d -  ab.0. f.r  Lgl,t ." _oo                        Coo..tlolos_        lgoot  .1001ct  11  1.0 , at. -d P...-41.
oo.~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~of 0..1l. 5140, 004 10001 d4.111.4. -r.ootilo.1
I1..4or. .       .otutgd (65        WeP.oa   ott  oP.-otagea of .14-          ESUCITII4
P.Do.olotood   ab(otol     oa..0    r. -,hr                        1sooo              ?Ti-ar  snoo   - ctotl. ottf_nlo _ Total o.4  ..l   eaoTOI000  of .11  Sba.                                  -
gru   rv.1   of oo104too.-ytpo.ltoofr10-0                                               :.pao-v ioa  Ao Poeooo-           *o 0-9,1.    primotiy achool-not
1%148-0. ..4 1970-75.                                                                 popo±rotloo; ooo.olly 10,.   blT..o   -1p..   . Ch,ooo fr.
Crolo b,00h rotb  (C.r tbo-.-,) - A-01 1100 4i,04. pot tho.o..4 of                      ti180oo.t 1-.h40. of pT0.tOey 04.catl-0  ±00 00001r10. 110h otipOla  ..-
.11-hoa  popollIool   oo-01  r1010olI& *OTosof  abd4104±0 1960 004            1.1C00  -C.ollt 007 eaced 100 p-zota  0104.  -n  p.p11. ... 4.1.0-I
1170 toO 110.-poo  o000040 004144I1  1975 tot  -Ctweet4.  oCtmot..           W.b.o  the offial cMI     .t4   45..
=ob  Ion   oe(ot1300)-  0.14.10jTt0fha   f.4                                       Oocor   v  1h001 - 000.1. -Ao  fn1. - Coo... l oO .-4,; a..,V0.."  *tod-
Iop.P.I.Cloo; .o-y..1  .aeio--Cia  -.*oog    -dig 10 1960 .00d 1970                 110  14010  01  .0  .1 ot  Y.o of lppront po-lOrLaacr-00100100  PCo-
0.4 0I.-re.,       .S tO   d414  14 1975 f00.0at r-L b0C001o.                         0140 ...o-al  -Co.tloa. Of teacher  7100               -%0t00Z10  f or p.pil.
Cr,.. roO,oboOlm oat.- AtorogO  ,  00.:o  d4b.oboo   A  .  i.11 boor           o.-01ly of 12 to 17 y-.  of S0ao; gorO.-psoefloo  00.r00s... tn-roly
10 00? 00.01 oooodmotolo 900114 if  h. Oop.rItoao.  P---.    0                  aolodod.
._Eift,1 f_otilify rat..; oo.olly flo-yea   wrg.  0±4I  1960.                       oolo'orloo   (010   f.co.,   P0.04t0.01 l.011-041-0  I.
1970. .04 1975.                                                                       .1.4. 10..1       1.lorOl or  lbo  pvo-oo. .0±04 oporolo 144.PoWoo.ly
511091010  f 41ct4-ootrol 4001.. 15004 ft...oo  of batlo-al f4All1     Pw11-0o.o4.Lr:To. - prianrY. 00  .5.0.?,ar  - 70101 todm: -C&          Oo   1.
P1.I.go prot.g.                                                                       pon,  o  0000.40          -J.. 0100404 by .0..  of. Itasaro  10 144 10,00-
-0b14   Ao  of 4414-bo.1100 oa   1-0  .?) . too 41rt-c.1To                     04,11 lro,o. (rottet) - Lit-iot. 040010 .4   10 C.0 C.04A  -it.) 0
40-11. 10.1  000,1.4od         la aeb .40 00r09.                                      a                 .1045of11.1 Adool pop'lotl4. .Gd 1$ Y0010 0d 0-01.
104, o  tol ood.ollo pt 101  (1970-100)              -`1.6.    So  of pot      Pojosot 400  (Per10..0 t         o.ol.-d o     t- aeg.ooo oar 04  t-pri0. -..v00  040
-pit.0   onI PT0o0a        o .11 M fod   4110.                                       ioo  I... tha  .1441 parma.; oo.ld- 540.1.c0, 44.1.. .4 -.1111.17
for.v .s0±:aoly of ol-IorlO  (pot.-C of rO lt -Cu.Mood  too                           ooilo0.
p.rV "o.  01_11010O 009910  14.911,I. 40"1161A inOlC-v"4o          10  VC1 1.       40004r0... I-o  (.O.r th-011d   po       -)rso,.o4 Jo rpobo..1± of ooo  a.111,
o.s -o,.4   .oj. L. ;otok.  0.1  opl.  old  aoo..  toad. S."..               ftooITorLA 14-0000.0. .0M1  70010C  h-5 b.9OhT.trtoe of v.Alo  .00. no  J.
4,00-1.i  M...  It foo   toce-sio. -t Io..... .. dit1b.to-      oc.  to-            .f.t; 8.10 10- 000o.0 Year.  *7 001 b.                    isobo .1.  -01.,sr.
qolonet. 00?o ...Umted bY ?AC 4..4 o  physioloo14al 00o4  I" or.-                    b.411a"  .4 111000..
0*1 ocIo         .04  Ch11  E100d4f1a4 .o11boono..  o,r.Cooa. body                 TVroolot  Co thousan  boooler1o) - -V r.oU0-* for 010040.01 00 $-.At
0.14400  *40 Mtd so  d1410400-0t0.0  poof ...loo. .04  L.10-s.o  10 p.r-              p_roolba       por 400.00p00 .11. .0.10". .0110.-5d TV 100.10.0 I4tem
0.00for  40080*  ora.oo14 1041                                                   tro..d 14   a-r obos C0l1a10of TV 00c0  o  14 offoc,.
PotCoojI. oool of 0,0-10(0000  00- 40   - f-U.10 1.14.1 of Par                       00.,~ 11    T100100in (Per 0±00.0d pnov.t-lool - 154..  14.  -0TO0110.1
109114000 .oppl  of Io., P., day.A--o toly of food 10"           fol                   1.o "nn izlly  .0.001 t - 141001   -p0      7. lflood be C  p01104101  pOhI-
0000.  O rollinc  fot .11 toont.i.. .01.411.4d by ±10A P-%d1. f0.                 101100 4.e-d prlo.rl±y Co rosotI LACtoo.                  Z~.- 1.  -oo1400od t
*  a  .11±eaa. of S0 grom  of total prot.La po"  MsY .   20 01000                40 401"if it  Cpor   It ... C 00.  cu..   tOok
Of -01.0.  .0  poo, Prot..on, Of .40th 100,S-   W0.14 40 .01.1 pr10.0..            ±1000".0001  00000                                 1- 0100o,o*0 4 0- tOo  ~.r of ticket.
Th.o00o..g4.or.I-00  t4." 10. of 75 Ctin. of total prl.U.a 5                     o1 d14   4  70Y.10044    0.010  .0 10 ~ i 4,004 110.aa   d .011.
23 too  of   10s`1 7701..0 400404   10414 oh. -I   p00900.4 by                         -it..
TAO 1010 It =0  rto-d 14.d 0o0o
Pot 10.11. orotolO  0.001, fyo. solOol .04 011.. - POot~~~~~~~~~1...   _otly of 1004  D.05.00M
8.11,04  Or. .a10.l..4  po±400 1  p0s pot "Y.                          T0.t1 I.40  fo... (th040.04) - tosoooalto11  001±00 per.00  -..110410  0.04
±4114 1... 1-0) OstS±lov roe.(ocr 040.404) - josl 4.0040 "C1 1040-         fot,.. 404  -0MIeyd h.t 000100410  40..0-1-.. seAool.t. ate.  D*ti41-
004L 14 4 B.-I I"004  -k .0. Co caild1m  I4 chi. o8  400,9.                           11=0  L. -01000               or011 . 1  10   0.tlb
Peal. YoO.o) - Foa   labor fo.. 0prOo..  of 1004.1 104r  olo
OLO1Tlt                                                   og?1,,11'orO  loortool~~~~~~~~~L -  44o  f.rts I4 14.-10g. f-batT.y, 40.t:10  .0d 11.h10g
.±Io  090170100041-h (Yrooro  - A--Sg. .Nebr Of psoro of 11g.                      0   oroot   of 101.1 1W.00  forl..
1004 b0 1C4170±1  .00I7 ILI0-Year  = S.ro. 00410  L. 1960. 1970.              .407   000:0011 -cbot  ; b140  71..1   ±14  oOT01O. Lo'mi0140:00144=j   00
1oloMt WV.11  fr.C. (p., th-ood.o     - 4A.01 tootb. of 141.01  balo                   st:o.lort            mc.010) - tota.04±.  .01 (no.. - TotL. -I... *04
Ot 10  Of  t00901110000  1100 4±1410.                                                10.1. lbOr f.r..... MpotO.o00   of 1401  000010  p000               -10
A.40.. 05  _f.00?±000   fooel1s(-001 1.                           44roo                  lN. .-  rLO'. .4)ot.l P_rtlaloit±0   70100 ref laclIagao-o
6,05.1.1 pOo p1.(oa.o.o.-4tTl)01   .01.                       00004   10               reo..tore of Ch. "PopI.C1i   .04 1o   tlo. .-d.0
*080.007 aep"y (It-1odot troatd .000.45 00004001 00000.104 bet                     levota    doocodeao, ... i  - 0*010 of PoPo10tlso r4r 1.1 fd 65 0W .4 06  10
veo-tNa000c0d vare1 00h 00 14.0 fT- P0000004 401040100, 0901400                        Lb.0 10cr forts 1. 4.0 go-ot of 1346,ar...
.0d OWNAMy -01i0) so petc.tegoo. .0 1401: lopOt;     popyo.l.00.
14020  .000   Art  hPOts.boy 40.0.100 IA      .0 bo"    t004Wei"900.10 of :01.:. lco-o(W01 h    0I.4 .04d 1) tooto-l by 01040t 5
-ooO1   Wt..  tfh1at M-Ot    to r00,0.1 Utr'   -oo blo  -C... talt0..01*0   1pot.  p0010-.1 2  plortal   -4 po.ron of p.110t
taply 1401 140 taoo0I 04410ofb. 400.-014 4 d.1 40t MO st                              of 4o.ols
.po04 a dir"Tiooo oo-O,1  port of 140 to  in 1014414  04. 14.1.11'
0000to o= ,t.11    01Leto  o    ooalo    :010    -,4*. 004                         011-d. .40-1*t0 0001    ocs  1-1o (tUSS  -o  C-i.)1         - 0044  Mo -rt1-
707.1-  Io5o  01PIl   111  040   0   .1                   00.04 by  AsOctao0.10. Pooory 1010-  1.001 10 Ch.. 10.0   1001 b010000610    010100
4Imnolat P".-E00.g.  of Chai0 .. T00c011-  MPopCOW.l .  OsorC.                         .1rntio-.l1y  .         tqio.c14  p10 o*oooci.I 00-fool raqolZoat  10001
Olopotl  4  1414 0"Tosl'M        lo     daadplepos. 0t14 0? .1140                     .1f-ed.bl..
11000.of W."0.      - oor od .0   00..001 by00..40t 070t.                    too.C .t4r11To00,:on.Iol(0   aoo1. -100o   .2*
or flOe 04.1   I   ol ofola   Oo.1.too.101,. p!!I70  10.000 1.. -                                                          1 1-1 41  11$$~ ,Lc 1g.  r144      C0.tl?
900,1.110  ror 060110      Popotso41,00  bY -Wfso  Of P00t411014                        p.r 4.91t. p.T0.-I 10000. of :0to. CC--y.
p±y.l0140 O,*0.1f 104 1lOS 0.04041 004.1      Ma-lOtol  100.1.           IoO10oto roou.tl-    o100 000r1  1400  10001 (prolln     040.4  ot
Prolo.IIo  oslo ot 10 -.1.trool  00100   Pt ...10.1 "ro.15, oc                        ".101110  P00-" *1440...? tO stee-C.                                    P
100.M10 004 social D."4 D±01.ioa
ZO O... 0. 011.U W Pro)Ol-tos 50p.r.0



rAALAK7A                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Anoowx I
TANZANIA0                                                                                  Page 4 91 
Ieaonsisle tecoteeeao.t Data Sbiest
1 97 7
I_   I_                ~~~~Atuval           ;96            97         urvtuluual      _Projected                                         A9/r-ge          Z kwuOaal  ravAt. tl.ttr.    Share of
1972         1?           194          17            1976         197? 7        9           1979          1980         1985         1b990         1 972-7 7        1977-85       -98-9             -p
A.  93tMOt)NAL ACM)UNTS
(0tie121US $ at 1917 Pric.a)
1.  clO                                                 2171.9       2466Z2       3004.7       Y119.4       1314.1        3542.4       3714.1       3890.2        4069.7       5105.8        6502.3          5.0              4.7         4.9             100.0
2   (Gatus tree T-enn vf Trade (rl)                     -161.0    --207.5         -348.9        -345.7        -u9.9       -116.1       -135.2       -174.5        -223.4       -251.8       -270.4             .               .            .              -3.3
3   c         -t.s ourts  Itues                         2612 9       2454.7       2655.8       2773.?        12')4.2      3426.3       3598.9        3715.6       3846.2       4854.1       6223.9           5.6              4.4         5.1              96.7
4.  Iupert                                              1084.7       1010.8         895.4        839.4        751.0        802.4        1063.9        904.8        924.7       1102.8        1330.4         -5.9              4.1         3.8              22.7
5.  Eupurts- VaIuae                                     1054. 7      1004.5        741.3         734.5        824.5        686.3        674.7         700.8        746.4        907.0        1164. 7        -8.2              3.5         5.1              19.4
6.  ip-trn - 3 d o-luttd                                 893.?        003.3        546.5         493.7        681.1        686.3         539.5        526.3        522.9        655.2         906.3         -5.2             -0.6         6.2              19.4
7.  Re.r_-e Cap - IT adjusted                            191.0        207.5        348.9         345.7         69.9        116.1        524.4         378.5        401.8        447.6         444.2           .                .            .               3.3
8.  3akt.1l C_s_ptlts                                   Z163.0       1986.3       240,.1        2555.0       2654.9       2986.6       3404. 5       3421.1       3540.6       4371.5        5448.3          6.6              4.9         4.5              84.3
9.  Iuust'e"'t                                           640.9        682.2         755.7        669.3        635.7        671.9         718.9        673.1        7U7.4        930.0        1219.8          1.0              4.2         5.6              19.0
10.  N.sIsaul SI I ugs                                    434.4        464.5        304.1         314.2        676.4        537.1        325.0        412.0         416.6        617.9         951.7          1.1              1.8         9.0              15.2
11.      .-.tle Sinugs                                   449.9        468.4        252.7         210.7        639.3        439.7        194.4         294.6        305.6        482.5         775.6         -0.4              1.2        10.0              12.4
12.  COP at  atrecet IIS                                 1564.1       1860.2       2239.1        2564.4       2761.4       3542.4       4335.7       4686.5        5393.1       9941.7       18603.0         11.8             13.8        13.3
0.  Sr14:c-lw  soiLqrf
(Share ef 62P at 1977 Prices)-
1.  Islle-ry                                               5.3         17/5         16.0          15.1         14.4         13.8          13.0         12.7         12.3         12.3          13.2          1.3              3.1         6.4
2.  Agritul Cts.                                          51.1         54.0         46.8          48.L         50.4         51.0          50.8         50.4         50.1         48.3          41.1          4.7              3.8         4.4
3.  Serlcuc-                                              32.7         28.5          37.2         36.4         35.3         35.2          36.2         36.8         37.6         39.3          39.6          6.3              6.0         5.1
C.  PR I (S
1.  tCspsrt  Ylces Izelco                                 24 4         43.3         64.2          63.6 .       /6.7        100.0         91.0          95.9        102.5        142.2         140.8         22.4              4.5         6.0
2.  Isijiet iiPole.lY. t.uA                               43--         54.i         111.1        94.4          92.8        106.0        113.8        121.7         146.3        196.6        240.7          18.4              6.8         5.0
3.   its o  Trade                                         84.7         80.0         73./          47.2         82.7        180.0          80.0         75.1         70.1         72.2          76.1
4.  CDP OsfloCas  (US 60                                  56.4         70.1         74.5         82.2          t2.1        100.0         116.1        120.5        132.5        194.7         286.1         12.1              8.7         6.7
5.  Au...jge  XluWhosge [wtt  cW/0s0)                    7. 143       7.021        7.143         7.414        0.379        8.274        7.689
D.  StL.Etct41l IN90A1AtEMS                                             1972-77       1 978_85     1985-9U
1.  IGIIR                                                              4.40          3.93         3.72
2.  Ote-set ElautioIty                                                -0.22           0.11        0.77
3.  Oseraoi. Uu otutlc lasoAgs Rote                                   17.2           7.3         11.4
4.  Aveagr1e NatluouI Osilgo Rtto                                     19.0           10.9        13.8
5.  PLta,glual NutzPlual S_siegS  gLte                                -17.24          0.27        0.25
6.  l..orr,/Cup                                                       29.8          23.2         20.9
7.  otec-- -tel,/UP                                                    2.40         18.9         19.4
8.  Rususree QAp/GDY                                                   7.8            9.4         8.0
E.  pollfl.C P190716'-             .                                                                                          Artual       ostoal          Ert.
(NillIs- Tlhtrltlgo)                                   1965/66      1972/73      1973/74      1974/75       1975/7t      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79
1.  C-urettt Seceaun                                      716         2357          3023         3946         3919         5250         6082          6702
1.1 'I- Rcveauc                                           602         1927          2510         3161         3302         4644         5317         5721
2.  tuce-,t gop-odlture                                   707         2223          2785         3961         3716         5022         5847         7670
3.  Uc -eiutt SacLegs                                      9          134           238         -15           203          228          235         -969
4.   urelgt. Crant-                                        . .          62           214          377          469          626          709          1250
5.  Suej,Iaa Acallable for F;loanellug
Oelop,"ent  oupte-diure                            ..          196           452         312          672          894           944          291
4.  Occelaptuot ElPe-dft.tr                               238          956          1642        2225          2253         2763         3585         5057
7.  O_seoll DiefIIt                                        .           760          1190       -1863         -1581        -186         -2641        -4776
8.  Plcuoclog of thv DI7tlit
Octeunal I.esa.a                                   f3          456            467         661          564          777           6bO         1200
Danoeutfe gorrowfoga-:
onklet lyatec                                               zeg269         521         934          570          ..           464         3195
(Ither                                          ..           25           202          368          447          ..          1517           581
]  I-  1966 prLica and 1977 Ildex ban. year.                                                                                                8'AIOA
_ co.ral lsverbuaout                                                                                                                    Jattuary 3, 19b0



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                      Page 5 of 6
Balance of Payments and I0ternal Assistanice
(Mtllion US$)
Aetnlal                                         Preliminary               Pro,jection
1972        1973         1974         1975        1976         1977         1978         1979        1980         1985          1990
A.  Sunanary of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (inel. NFS)                                          384.3        434.6        476.0       467.0        632.1        686.3        613.9       672.0        765.2       1289.4       2222.0
2.  Imports (inel. NFS)                                          466.1        546.8        779.8       793.8        697.1        802.4      1210.7       1155.3       1353.2       2170.2       3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                             -81.1       -112.2       -303.8      -326.8        -65.0       -116.1      -596.8       -483.3       -588.0       -880.8      -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service income                                      -5.9         7.4         -5.2         -7.3        21.5        -18.7        -24.6        -47.5        -66.5      -137.0       -266.8
1.  Net Interest Payments of which:                            3.2         11.2         8.9         -3.1       -17.9        -16.4        -15.8        -37.8        -55.9       -119.8       -239.2
(Interest oni Public N & LT Loaas)                     (-11.1       (-12.5)     (-13.6)      (-16.2)      (-19.5)     (-22,1)      (-24.7)      (-27.8)      (-35.0)    (-121.8)    (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investament Income
3.  Workers Remittance (Net)                                  -9.1       -18.6        -14.1         -4.2         -3.6         -2.3        -8.8         -9.7        -10.6        -17.1        -27.6
4.  Other Factor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current  ransifers (Net)                                      -4.2          5.0         45.2         92.9        55.4        116.1        175.0        195.0       218.4         384.9       678.3
6.  Balance on Current Accounit                       .          -91.9       -114.6      -263.8       -241.2        -31.1        -18.7       -446.4      -335.8       -436.1       -632.8       -702.0
7.  Private Direct Investment                                       0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          5.0          5.4          5.7          6.1          8.6         12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                                 14.0        18.6          6.5         34.9          2.9        13.9          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                             109.5        113.6        161.3       249.5        122.4        177.8        173.2       210.5
10.  Amortization i7                                              -34.2        -23.7        -18.8        -18.0       -21.9        -26.4        -26.8        -54.8
11.  Net Disbursements 1/                                           75.3        89.9        142.5       231.5        100.5        151.4        146.4        155.8
12.  Use of IMF Resources                                            0.0         0.0         60.3         25.2        23.7          8.8         17.0         30.0
13.  Short-terum Capital Transactions                                7.2       -17.9          7.5         -5.1       -38.3         35.1         60.0        120.0
14.  Capital 'Iransactions, n.e.i.                                 54.8         49.0        -47.4        -30.1       -10.8        -26.0          0.0          0.0
15.  Change in Reserv.s (- = inicrease)                           -59.4        -25.0         94:4        -15.2       -46.9       -169.5        229.0         24.3
B.  Grants and l.oans Comlittuent
1.  Official Grants 2/                                             9.8         23.6         51.1       127.8        119.0        130.0        200.0       216.0
2.  Public  1 & LT Loans                                          65.4        107.1        260.4       151.8        194.1        197.3        225.3        269.9
2.1  IBRD                                                      -            -          65.0         30.0         37.0         53.0        25.0         66.0
2.2  IDA                                                      10.8        22.6         61.2         10,.0        52.0        49.2         73.5         63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                        3.3          1.8         7.1         18.0         10.8         33.5        27.6         18.2
2.4  Governments, of which:                                   47.1         82.8       127.1         93.7         82.7        61.3         98.3         30.0
Centtrally planned economies                           4.9          3.0        76.5          5.4          -            -           2.6          -
2.5  Suppliers                                                 -            -           -            -            -            -           -           80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions                                    4.2          -           -            -           11.7          0.3         -           10.0
2.7  Bolnds
2.8  Public l.oans, n.e.i. 3/-                                              -            -           -            -            -            -           2.8
3.  OLtber M 6 LT Loans (whlere available)                         26.4        18.6          5.6          2.9         6.0          -            -
C.  Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Commitmenlts                           49.2         83.4         63.1         56.4        66.6         56.8         45.5         32.8
2   Average Interest                                                3.6         0.6          2.3          3.0         2.2          3.2          4.5          5.4
3.  Average maturity (Years)                                       28.1        47.8         32.2         31.9        38.8         35.1         32.8         25.5
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) oni blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance granits.                                                                                                                    EAIDA
3/ Represents co.wsitments to cover projected balance of paysmeuts deficit.                                                                                  January 2, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                            Page 6 of 6
1/
DebtI and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976       1977         1978
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total Debt outstaniding (DOD: End of Period)              441.7       557.1       728.3       917.1      1029.2      1123.4      1213.1
2.  Including Undisbursed                                     835.5       987.3      1280.5      1359.0      1555.9      1649.3      1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                        43.3        39.3        32.4        34.1        41.6        48.4        49.6
3.1 Interest                                                   11.1        12.3        13.6        16.2        19.5        22.1        24.7
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                                     ..          ..          ..          ..
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                         11.3         9.3         6.8         7.3         6.6         7.1         7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                            2.8         2.1         1.4         1.3         1.5         1.4         1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Goversment Revenue                     14.7        10.3         6.6         6.4         7.6         7.0         5.8
C. Terms
1.  interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                             2.5         2.2         1.9         1.8         1.9         2.0         2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                9.8         7.1         4.4         3.7         4.0         4.3         4.1
D.  Dependency Ration  for K & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/bmports (incl. NFlS)                   23.5        20.8        20.7 .      31.4        17.6        22.2        14.5
2.  Net Transfer/lmports (incl. NFS)                           16.2        16.4        8.3         29.2        14.4 4
3.  Net TransCer/Gross Disbursements                           68.8        79 .          *         92.8        82.1        A.M
E.  Exposure
1.  1BRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursewents               16.9        19.1        10.4        21.0        14.0        17.2        17.8                                                             0
2.  Banxk Group Disburseiaeats/Gross Total Disburset ents    19.4          21.8        14.0        28.2        37.2        37.8        31.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                         12.2        13.4        12.4        15.4        15.1        16.3        17.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                   23.1        23.3        21.1        24.2        25.7        29.3        31.3
5.  IBBD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                       10.2        15.3        20.4        26.4   .   34.1         33.1        40.5
6.  Banik Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                11.1        Ib.3        22.5        28.4        36.5        35.5        43.5
Oulttanding December 31. 1978
Amoutit             Percent
(US $ Million)
F.  Ext.rnal Debt (Disbursed Onhly)
1.  IB81)                                                                  209.9                    17.3
2.  Bank Group                                                             319.2                    31.3
3.  Other Multilateral                                                      61.2                     5.0
4.  Governments                                                            714.1                    58.9
of which Centrally Planned Economies                               311.3                    26.2
5.  Suppliers                                                               16.5                     1.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                                 *Ih.8                     1.5
7.  Bonds                                                                   20.3                     1.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.       1/                                             3.1                     6.3
9.  Total Public N & LT Debt-               1/                            1213.1                   100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (inel. undisbursed)-                                18Oo.4                   148.9
C.  Debt P'rofile
1.  Total Debt Service 1979-83/Total DOD Enid of 1978                       60.57.
1/  Includes Tanzania's notional share of 407. of EAC debt.                                                                                                  EAIDA
2/  Represents DOD on loans to cover projected balance of payments  Lcur it.                                                                                 January 2, 1980
!



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                  77.2          91.2
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                    10.8      1.1
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                   10.3      1.8
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                          18.5      2.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                             17.5      9.0
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                            6.0      0.2
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                           21.0                     2.7
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                  8.5      2.1
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                                10.2      3.1
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                  10.0      5.5
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                                 9.0                    0.9
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                              10.0      6.1
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                              15.0                    2.3
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                     1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                                6.0      2.9
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                             18.0    10.7
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                    11.0      7.1
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                      30.0             11.3
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                             7.0                     4.0
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                           9.0      7.9
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                  8.0      1.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                  15.0                   10.S
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.5              4.3
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                          4.2
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                          7.2     5.7
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                          12.0    11.4
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                           15.0    11.0
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                     7.9
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                   27.5    11.5
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                  -14.0    13.8
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                      12.0    11.2
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                    25.0                   24.9
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                   20.0    18.7
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                             14.0    14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                    12.0    12.0
875-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                             30.0    30.0
1650-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper              30.0                   30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                      20.5    20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.               11. 05                 11.0
1750-TA    1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          25.O0-/                25.0
S-24-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port
Engineering                                     2.5    2.5
Total                                                      276.7  41.5   431.7  364.3
of which has been repaid                                  8.2      -     7.6
Total now outstanding                                   268.5  41.5   424.1
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid            0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                          268.5  41.5   424.1
Total undisbursed                                          125.2  15.6   223.5  364.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOAkNS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.4
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 1.8
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 5.9
Total                                           244.8               9.5
of which has been repaid                      52.9
Total now outstanding                           191.9
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid       24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       191.9
Total undisbursed                                 9.5               9.5
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
(AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980)
There are currently 37 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
has been postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979.  Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue
of equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and will require continued attention. The closing date of
the Credit has been postponed by 12 months to December 31, 1980 in order to
complete the ranch development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita 'Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. The project faces problems with regard to expected
marketed production reaching potential processing capacity. This continued
decline in the marketed production is, however, puzzling in view of the price
increase and the attractive returns per labor day. An intensive analysis of
the cashewnut production issue is to be carried out by the Government agencies
responsible for review of agricultural production in Tanzania. The take over
of the industry by the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) and the consolidation of its
activities are proceeding; its management has improved since the appointment
of a new General Manager last year.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Progress has been made in improving control of materials flow for
civil works, promotion of a coffee production program, labor-intensive road
works, project accounting and disbursement performance, and increasing farmer
demand for inputs. However, project implementation continues to be slow.
Little construction work has taken place over the last five months of wet
season agricultural activities. Trials were planted late in two of the
three districts due to misallocation of project finance vehicles. Little
action has been taken on procurement. As recommended in the mid-term review
of this project, agreement has been reached on a number of proposed amend-
ments to the legal documents in order to make the project design more flexible.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date has been postponed by 12 months. Kilombero Sugar
Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project is progressing at a slower pace than anticipated and
fishing operations are now expected to begin by early 1980. Eight vessels for
the coastal commercial centers are already under construction, and procurement
of engines and fishing gear is in progress. Tender documents for the procure-
ment of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being finalized.
The recent outbreaks of cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a setback in
Project activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village Program, and
steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable villages and
the preparation of investment plans.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 606-TA - Naticnal Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The project status deteriorated during 1978. The large scale para-
statal farms have been poorly managed, production is below expectation and
financial prospects are dismal. The ujamaa component proceeds slowly and
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative
means of assisting village milk production and consumption. The foot and
mouth disease control investigation has commenced. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project:  US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, physical progress has
now been satisfactory for the past two years. The nurseries are well stocked
and maintained, and the current planting program on schedule. Progress on
fire protection, road construction and building is satisfactory. Procurement
of equipment needed for the next season is, however, delayed and project
accounts need updating. These are partly due to staffing problems; the
position of financial controller and workshop foreman became vacant as well
as the position of assistant project manager and silviculturist/economist.
Government is approaching bilateral agencies for recruitment assistance.



37
ANNEX LI
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78.  TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The level of regional commitment to the project has been good and
overall project performance is satisfactory; disbursements are on schedule.
However, some delays have been experienced in the delivery of equipment and
vehicles procured under the project, and shortage of trained extension agents
in the Region continues to hamper the crop development component. These
delays should not be over-emphasized since project management has been
effective in getting the project initiated.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31. 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are stilL being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April L3, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Dat:e - December 31, 1980
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
95%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed to December 31, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at
about TSh. 109 million, an increase! of approximately 5% over the appraisal
estimate of TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any financial
problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community Education
Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village development,
education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational Training
Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical assistance
and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching funds dis-
bursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship component of
the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvement. In fact, housing construction is in line with VMT
training which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment
of over 500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Educatton on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance.  However, it is necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in its implementa-
tion; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assistance
contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in November 1979, and the
Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction olf health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it.  Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchaLnge rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. The closing date has been postponed
by six months to allow for completion of the remaining construction activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates.  These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts
have been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO
has obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost
is US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost
overrun of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed. It is expected that US$7.0 million from the EEC Special Action
Fund will be allocated to this project.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed.  Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank:  US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza. Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1980
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of this
project is being administered by IDA.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of September 30, 1979 were US$4.8 million of
which US$4.1 million, US$0.4 million and US$0.3 million were for consultancy
services, training and project unit services, respectively. The procedures
for processing proposals have been streamlined and it is expected that the
pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6. 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit are not yet effective.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for I)ar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national gluarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each lcan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - ThiraL Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$30.7 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF JANUARY 31, 1980
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business      Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing        3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and          Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                      6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                            2.71    0.54    3.25



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the credit         18 months 1/
(b)  Project prepared by                      Government/RMEA
(c)  First presented to the Bank              May 1977 1/
(d)  Appraisal mission                        April/May 1979
(e)  Completion of negotiations               February 1980
(f)  Estimated date of effectiveness          August 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Akctions
None
III. Special Conditions
1.   Special conditions:
(a) Establishment by MOW of a roads improvement and maintenance
unit (RIMU) not later than March 31, 1981 which shall carry
out the roads component of the Project by force account
(para. 61). -
(b) Review and discussion with the Association of detailed
proposals regarding the responsibility for the maintenance
of the Project roads and the future use of the equipment
of the RIMU (para. 62).
(c)  Review and adjustment of pyrethrum producer prices annually
taking into account the pyrethrum export prices, TPB's
costs of its operations and the producer prices of other
crops (para. 39).
1/   See para. 46.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Review and if necessary improvement of the adequacy of
extension staff jointly by Kilimo, TPB and the Mbeya and
Iringa Regional Authorities not later than June 30, 1982
(para. 53).
2.   Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
the Association between the Government of Tanzania and TPB
(para. 76).
(b) Appointment of a Financial Controller after consultation
with the Association (para. 68).
3.   Conditions of disbursement:
That agreements have been reached between the Association and
TPB on the experts' and consultants' recommendations on:
(a) improved drying facilities (para. 54), and
(b) TPB's transport management (para. 58).



