Document of
The World Bank                                   VJ 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 2749b-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
March 20, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit    =  Tanzania shilling (Tsh)
US$ 0.12          =  Tsh 1.0
US$ 1.00          =  Tsh 8.30
US$ 1,000         =  Tsh 8,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (ki4)     =  0.62 miles
1 sq. meter (i )      = 10.76 sq: ft
1 hectare (ha)        = 10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)       =  2.204 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton) = 1,000 kg = 2,204 lb
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APO        -  Assistant Production Officer
GAPEX      -  General Agricultural Products Export Company
GOT        -  Government of Tanzania
ICB        -  International Competitive Bidding
IERR       -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
KILIMO     - Ministry of Agriculture
MDB         - Marketing Development Bureau of Kilimo
MOW         - Ministry of Works
PMO        -  Prime Minister's Office
RIMU       -  Road Improvement and Maintenance Unit
RMEA       -  Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
TAN-ZAM    -  Tanzania-Zambia Highway
TAZARA     -  Tanzania-Zambia Railway
TECO       -  Tanganyika Extract Company
TIB        -  Tanzania Investment Bank
TPB        -  Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board
UAC        -  Uyole Agricultural Center
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
TPB FINANCIAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF THE PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR  ............................                     1
A. Background 1.........   1
B. Agricultural Services                           . .... 2
C.  Agricultural Marketing and Pricing                       ....                   4
D.    Previous Bank Group Assistance             . . .                              5
II. THE PYRETHRUM SUB-SECTOR 5...                                              ..5
A. General . .                                                                      5
B.   Pyrethrum Production..                               ...............           6
C.    Cultivation, Yields and Flower Drying                           .             7
D.  Services to Pyrethrum Growers. . .                                              8
E. Producer and Export Prices                      . . .11
F. Future Prospects                ....... . .13
III. EXECUTING AGENCIES                      . . .14
A. The Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board .14
B. The Uyole Agricultural Center .16
C. The Ministry of Works .17
IV. THE PROJECT AREA .17
V. THE PROJECT                          . . .19
A,-   General Description ...............................                 .        19
B. Detailed Features                        ....20
C. Project Costs   ....28
D. Financing                      ... .30
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. ...   31
A. Management ..31
B. Staffing   ..32
C. Procurement ..33
D. Disbursement    ..34
E.   Accounts and Audit  ...............................                           35
F. Monitoring and Reporting    ..35
G.  Evaluation .......                       .. ...... ...   36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting of
J. Mullan,  P. Santos, G. Onaba and K. Nathan (IDA) and R. Faun (Consultant)
which visited Tanzania in April/May 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.  PYRETHRUM MARKETS AND PRICE PROSPECTS ......................    36
A.  Uses  of  Pyrethrum  ................. .. ..................  36
B.  World Production and Consumption ........... ...........    37
C.  Recent  Price  Trends   ...................................  38
D.  Market Outlook and Price Prospects .......... ..........    40
VIII. YIELDS, FARMER RETURNS, PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..    42
A.  Flower Yields and Pyrethrin Content ....... ............    42
B.  Farmer Returns and Incomes ............................    42
C.  Production of Dried Flowers, Extract and Marc .........    44
D.  Financial Effects on TPB ............. ..  ...............    45
E.  Government Cash Flow Implications ........... ..........    46
F.  Foreign Exchange Implications ............... . ..........    47
IX.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION ........................    47
X.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................    50
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Charts and Tables
Chart C-1  TPB Organization
Chart C-2  Estimated Implementation Schedule
Table T-1  Dried Flower Production, 1963/64-1978/79
Table T-2  Number of Farmers, Area Cultivated, Flower
Production in Major Zones, 1978/79
Table T-3  Average Pyrethrin Content, 1962/63-1978/79
Table T-4  Summary TPB Income Statements, FY75-FY79
Table T-5  Summary TPB Balance Sheets, FY75-FY79
Table T-6  Projected TPB 'Without Project' Income
Statements, FY80-FY90
Table T-7  Projected TPB 'Without Project' Balance
Sheets, FY80-FY90
Table T-8  Project TPB 'Without Project' Cash Flows,
FY80-FY90
Table T-9  Road Improvement Program
Table T-10 List of RIMU Equipment
Table T-11 RIMU Local Staff and Labor Requirements
Table T-12 Phasing of Project Costs
Table T-13  Costs of Smallholder Production Component
Table T-14 Costs of Pyrethrum Research Component
Table T-15  Costs of TPB Strengthening
Table T-16 Costs of Roads Component
Table T-17  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



Table T-18   Production Costs and Returns for Pyrethrum
and Maize
Table T-19   Farm Incomes
Table T-20   Crop Labor Profiles and Farm Labor Utilization
Table T-21   Projected Incremental and Total Flower
Production
Table T-22   Projected Incremental and Total Extract and
Marc Production
Table T-23   Projected TPB 'With-Project' Income Statements
Table T-24   Projected TPB 'With-Project' Balance Sheets
Table T-25   Project TPB 'With-Project' Cash Flows
Table T-26   Financial Rate of Return and Return to Equity
Table T-27   Effects on Government Cash Flow
Table T-28   Foreign Exchange Implications
Table T-29   Economic Prices of Extract and Marc
Table T-30   Economic Costs and Benefits
2.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP          IBRD-14436  -  Pyrethrum Growing Areas
MAP          IBRD-14386  -  Proposed Project Investments



f X f



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Tanzania's population (for the mainland, estimated at about 17
million in 1979) is increasing at about 3% per annum. Per capita GNP for
1978 is estimated at US$230. Real growth of GDP averaged about 5% per annum
over 1976-78. Roughly 50% of GDP is derived from agriculture and related
activities, more than half of this from subsistence production. More than 90%
of the population resides in rural areas, the vast majority engaged in agri-
culture. About 70% of Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings from merchandize
exports are accounted for by unprocessed agricultural commodities, and a
further 7% by processed farm products. The major export commodities are
coffee, cotton, sisal, tobacco, tea and cashewnuts.
1.02      Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, wheat, rice and
livestock. The largely traditionally managed national livestock herd, esti-
mated at 10 million head, is grazed extensively over the 40% of the country
free from tsetse fly.
1.03      Recent performance of the agricultural sector has been somewhat
sluggish. Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of
agricultural production was about 2.7%, less than the estimated population
growth. From the late 1960's onward, food crop production also failed to keep
pace with population growth and, as a result, Tanzania became increasingly
dependent on imports of maize, rice and wheat. The effects of this slow
growth were exacerbated in 1973 and 1974 by the effects of a severe drought
which resulted in poor harvests and the need for large imports of food grains.
Since 1975, overall agricultural production has recovered from the effects of
the drought, increasing in real terms at an average annual rate of about 7%.
At the same time there has been a shift in the pattern of production away from
cash export crops toward food crop production, so that cash crop production
has stagnated and, for some crops, declined. Despite food crop production
increases, rising demand has meant that Tanzania has continued to depend on
imports of rice and wheat.
1.04      The Government of Tanzania (GOT) has undertaken a comprehensive
program to support the development of the agricultural sector, in conjunction
with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable income
distribution. Within these objectives, GOT is paying particular attention to
achieving self-sufficiency in food production and to supporting export crops.
In the past few years, greater emphasis has been placed on the productive
rather than the social aspects of rural development than was the case in
earlier years. Beginning in 1970, GOT launched a wide-ranging program to
resettle the country's rural population into villages in order to facilitate



- 2 -
the provision of infrastructure and services and to encourage self-reliance
and a community approach to rural development. There are now about 7,700
registered villages, containing over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural
population. The village is intended to be the country's primary social,
economic and political unit. Basic social services, including health
facilities, classrooms and water supply systems, are to be located in each
village. Economic services, including provision of credit, supply of inputs,
organization of extension services and marketing of produce, are coordinated
at the village level. Economic infrastructure, such as storage godowns,
processing equipment and small-scale industries, are expected to be village-
owned investments. Early experience with villagization has been mixed, and it
is too early to judge how effectively villages will be able to meet their
ambitious goals.
B. Agricultural Services
Research
1.0.)     Agricultural research in Tanzania is undertaken by a variety of
governmental agencies. The Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) is responsible
for overall guidance of the national research effort, and operates a network
of crop and livestock research stations. Tanzania's research system has
several weaknesses. Kilimo has not been able to exercise effective control
and, as a result, priorities have not always been firmly established, the
regional emphasis has been unclear, and research resources have not been
allocated in accordance with development priorities. There is a need for
greater focus on improving knowledge about Tanzania's various agro-economic
zones, and on improving the farming systems in these zones through a greater
emphasis on field testing. The links between research and extension are weak,
partly as a result of the failure of the Regions, which are responsib:Le for
extension, to coordinate with Kilimo which is in charge of research and
training.
1.06      Agricultural research in Tanzania is increasingly becoming linked
with the various international agricultural research institutes under the
Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). IDA is
intending to assist, through a proposed Agricultural Research Project, in
strengthening the ability of the Tanzanian research system to carry out field
testing, and to forge effective links with the agricultural extension services.
The Tanzanian research system also receives support under the Tabora Rural
Development Project (Cr. 703-TA) and the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development
Project (Cr. 803-TA).
Extension
1.07      Responsibility for agricultural extension in Tanzania is divrided
between Kilimo (which trains extension staff), the twenty regional admin-
istrations (which are responsible for the day-to-day management of about half
of the country's extension staff) and some crop parastatals (which employ the
remaining extension staff).  In early 1978, a total of 100 graduates, 3,000



- 3 -
field officers with formal diploma- or certificate- level training, and 3,500
field assistants with little formal training, were involved in extension work.
Extension efforts have been relatively ineffective. As a result of the weak
research base, relatively few proven technical packages are available. Field
staff are inadequately trained and supervised, and receive limited logistical
support. The situation was worsened in 1978 by the decision of Government to
appoint salaried Village Managers to each registered village. Of the 4,000
Village Managers already appointed, many came from the better-trained ranks of
the extension services. The relationship between Village Managers, extension
agents and Village Management Technicians 1/ remains unclear, and Kilimo and
the Prime Mfinister's Office (which has overall responsibility for regional
administration) hold differing views on how extension should be organized in
the future. IDA has made some proposals to Government on the re-organization
of the extension service, using the principles of the 'training and visit'
system adapted to Tanzania conditions, and it is expected that the extension
services in Mwanza and Shinyanga regions will be reorganized along these lines
as part of the IDA-supported Rural Development Project for these regions (Cr.
803-TA). Kilimo is currently drawing up a comprehensive plan for the overall
development of agricultural extension. However, progress on the improvement
of extension services has been, and is likely to continue to be, slow.
Credit
1.08      The major agencies involved in the provision of credit to the
agricultural sector are the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB). NBC is the sole source of short-term credit to
parastatals for produce marketing, and in addition provides about two-thirds
of the total production credit, mainly to large estates. TRDB provides long,
medium and short-term agricultural credit, administers special funds on behalf
of Government, and has been supported by the Bank Group as the major credit
channel for funds disbursed for direct use by farmers. A project to strengthen
TRDB has recently been negotiated.
Rural Transport Services
1.09      An adequate road transport system is needed to ensure the efficient
movement of crops to market centers and railheads, and to support timely
delivery of agricultural inputs to the farmers. Despite Government's efforts
to upgrade the road network, only about 10 percent of the 33,400 km of roads
provide reliable, all weather service. The remainder are, in general, little
more than earth tracks impassable in the rainy seasons. Rural roads are in
especially poor condition. In addition, the trucking fleet available for use
by parastatals (either through ownership or hire) has been limited, thus
making crop movement even more difficult. Crop marketing has suffered from
high transport costs, and deterioration of crops in villages with inadequate
storage facilities. Poor transport facilities cause delays in payment to
villages and often dictate that villages receive sums large enough to handle
crops over extended periods, leading to inadequate supervision and accounting
of funds advanced for purchases. Current GOT action to address these
1/   For a description of the Village Management Technician Program, see the
Staff Appraisal Report for the Fifth Education Project (Cr. 607-TA).



- 4 -
problems is directed mainly at the public sector, and includes the provision
of staff training and equipment under several IDA-assisted projects, 1/ and
the recent creation of betterment and maintenance units, which are upgrading
selected secondary roads in several regions. Assistance to the public truck-
ing industry is being provided through the IDA- supported Trucking Industry
Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (Cr. 743-TA). This has not proved
sufficient to overcome transport bottlenecks in the critical area of crop
procurement and GOT, under IDA assisted projects 2/, has provided parastatals
with additional transport facilities.
C. Agricultural Marketing and Pricing
Marketing
1.10      In May 1976, the Primary Cooperative Societies and Unions, which
formerly played an important role in agricultural marketing, were dissolved
and their functions transferred to other district, regional and national
orgetnizations, of which the most prominent are various parastatal bodies. At
present, there are separate parastatal organizations for coffee, cotton,
foodgrains, sisal, tobacco, tea, cashewnuts, sugar, livestock and dairy
products and pyrethrum; many have been established quite recently. Generally,
ambitious expectations have placed severe strains on their physical and
managerial resources; they not only provide marketing services to villages but
also provide processing services and have responsibilities for increasing
production. The marketing system in Tanzania suffers from lack of comlpetition,
high costs, poor service and slow payments to farmers. The Government is
aware of these problems, and the Standing Committee on Parastatal Organization
is reviewing the structure and managerial performance of parastatals. The
Bank Group is assisting in this process through its analysis of parastatals
invclved in recent and proposed Bank Group loans and credits; i.e. the Cashew-
nut Authority, the Tobacco Authority, the Tea Authority and the National
Milling Corporation.
Pricing
1.11      The control of producer, wholesale and retail prices of major crops
is an important tool of GOT policy. Producer prices of all principal export
crops except sisal and coffee are controlled as are major food crops except
vegetables, fruits, fish and eggs. Responsibility for formulating pricing
recommendations rests with Kilimo, whose Marketing Development Bureau (MDB)
1/   These include the Hlighways Maintenance Project (Cr. 507-TA), and road
components in the Tabora Regional Development Project (Cr. 703-TA), the
Geita Cotton Project (Cr. 454-TA), the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development
Project (Cr. 803-TA) and Kigoma Rural Development Project (Cr. 508-TA).
2/   Including a number of trucks to the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT)
under the Tobacco Handling Project (Cr. 802-TA) and to NMC, financed by
BADEA (the Arab Bank for Economic Development) under the National Maize
Project (Cr. 606-TA).



carries out annual reviews of producer prices for major crops, taking into
account production costs, the need for incentives to producers, inter-regional
equity and the sales revenues and operating costs of marketing agencies. The
MDB, which was established in 1970 with financial assistance from UNDP and
technical assistance from FAO, has progressively developed its skills in price
analysis and formulation. MDB is currently being financed by IDA, on a
provisional basis, under the National Maize Project (Cr. 606-TA) and under the
proposed Grain Storage and Milling Project would receive further IDA funds and
long-term technical assistance. During supervision of the Grain Storage and
Milling Project, the Bank would continue and strengthen its dialogue with
Government on pricing.
D. Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.12      Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in Tanzania
has included IDA credits totalling US$145.2 million and IBRD Loans totalling
US$37.0 million for thirteen agricultural and three rural development projects.
Agricultural projects include one for agricultural credit, three for livestock,
two for tobacco and one each for the development of production of tea, sugar,
cashewnuts, maize, fish, forestry products and cotton. Rural Development
Projects have been financed by IDA in the Kigoma, Tabora, and the Mwanza and
Shinyanga regions. Project Performance Audit Reports for two projects (the
Flue-Cured Tobacco Project and the Smallholder Tea Development Project) have
recently been prepared. In both cases, the economic rate of return is satis-
factory. However, implementation experience highlighted the weakness of the
parastatals involved, and the consequent need for considerable investment in
institution-building. These lessons have been taken into account in the design
of this Project.
II. THE PYRETHRUM SUB-SECTOR
A. General
2.01      The pyrethrum plant (Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium) is a small
perennial growing to some 60 cm in height. It has one of the longest histories
of botanical substances used to control insect pests and has been commercially
available for 150 years. Its dried flowers yield an extract, the active
ingredients of which, pyrethrins, have excellent insecticidal properties with
no adverse environmental side effects. The crop is grown in about sixteen
countries, five of which, Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda, Ecuador and Papua New
Guinea (in descending order of importance), produce over 97% of the world's
output.
2.02      Growing conditions.  Pyrethrum growing requires an altitude of
1,800 m or above with a well distributed rainfall of 1,000 mm or more per year
and temperatures that fall to levels a little above freezing. Low temperatures
stimulate flower production. The plant prefers light, loamy soils, slightly
alkaline, but it has a fair degree of tolerance to acidity. It needs an open
unshaded position and does not compete well with weed growth.



- 6 -
2.03      Processing.  The active insecticidal ingredients referred to as
'pyrethrins' are obtained from dried crushed pyrethrum flowers by means of a
solvent extraction process. The crude extract thus obtained is about 25%
pyrethrins, the remainder being soluble oleo-resins also extracted from the
flowers. The residue from extraction is referred to as 'pyrethrum marc,'
which has some commercial value since it contains a low concentration of
pyrethrins, as well as being relatively rich in protein and hence in demand as
a cattle feed ingredient. Crude extract can be purified in various degrees.
Some of the oleo-resins can be removed from the crude extract by centrifuging,
producing 'partially-dewaxed' extract. Further purification requires refining
by solution in further organic solvents. This produces a decolorized 'pale'
extract.
2.04      Properties.  Pyrethrum is basically a 'contact' insecticide, that
is, one which is absorbed through the body wall. It has a wider spectrum of
activity than many other insecticides, and is effective against all common
household insects. It has extemely low mammalian toxicity, and its long and
impressive safety record in actual use has led pesticide authorities to
classify it as one of the very few virtually non-hazardous insecticidal
materials.  Pyrethrum has the ability both to paralyze flying insects ('knock-
down') and to kill them after a relatively short period. Exposure of crawling
insects to pyrethrum results in temporarily increased activity; the insects
leave their hiding places and are thus further exposed to the chemical.
Pyrethrum has a good repellent effect, so that new insects do not enter any
treated area. Despite its long use, pyrethrum does not seem to have caused
the development of any significant degree of immunity in treated insect
populations. Unlike many synthetic insecticides, pyrethrum is rapidly de-
composed after use into harmless compounds, especially when exposed to direct
sunlight.
B. Pyrethrum Production
2.05      In Tanzania, commercial pyrethrum cultivation began in the 1930's,
on large farms and estates owned by expatriates in the highlands of the Mbeya
and Iringa regions of Southern Tanzania.  During the 1950's, production spread
to the area around Mount Kilimanjaro, where land in high-altitude forest
reserves was leased to large-scale pyrethrum growers. In the early 1960's,
smallholders in Mbeya and Iringa regions were encouraged, by the distribution
of pLanting material and the provision of extension and marketing services, to
begin pyrethrum production. As a result, production of dried flowers expanded
from 2,300 m tons in 1963 to over 6,300 m tons in 1967. This expansion
coincided with a similar expansion in Kenya, and resulted in world over-
production and marketing problems.  The consequent reduction in pyrethrum
prices, together with rising agricultural wages and the progressive expiration
of forest leases, eliminated most of the large-scale producers, and reduced
production by smallholders. Thus, overall production of dried flowers fell to
2,416 m tons by 1969/70. Between then and 1974-75, production fluctuated
between 2,700 m tons and 4,700 m tons. From 1974/75, however, there has been
a steady downward trend in production, from 4,700 m tons in 1974/75, to a low
of about 1,600 m tons in 1978/79. This decline resulted from producer prices



- 7 -
for pyrethrum that were unattractive in relation to other prices (particularly
of maize) and from a lack of improved planting material. Detailed production
figures for the period 1963/64 to 1978/79 are given in Table T-1 in Annex 1.
2.06      Over 95% of dried flower production now comes from the highland
areas of Mbeya and Iringa, where pyrethrum is grown almost exclusively
by smallholders. Pyrethrum production by smallholders has also recently
started in Rukwa and Ruvuma regions, where physical and climate conditions are
also suitable. No accurate data exist on the number of growers involved, but
it is currently estimated that about 20,000 smallholder families cultivate an
average of 0.4 ha of pyrethrum each, giving a total area under the crop of
about 8,000 ha. A more detailed estimate of the number of growers, area
cultivated and dried flower production within each of the major production
zones is given in Annex 1, Table T-2. TPB operates two large farms (Mahenye
and Ilinde) in the Southern Highlands. Production from these is less than
1% of total production and TPB does not intend to expand these production
activities. Instead, these farms would be used under the Project for seed
production and as bulking centers (paras. 5.04, 5.08).
C. Cultivation, Yields and Flower Drying
Cultivation
2.07      The average size of pyrethrum growing farms is about 2 ha. Culti-
vation is mainly by hand; only in isolated cases are oxen or tractors used.
Aside from the low availability of mechanized or animal power the steepness of
the terrain usually precludes anything but hand cultivation. Trials and
observations have shown that pyrethrum will come into full flower production
in the second and third year and that production rapidly declines thereafter.
In view of the soil pulverizing effect of the crop and the hazard of 'root-knot
nematodes' it is necessary to uproot every third year, and to rotate with
either a grain crop or a period of fallow. Plant propagation is by seedlings
raised from seed or by splitting and replanting existing plants. Picking
takes place the year round, but there are two flushes of flowers; the main
flush is in September-October and the lighter one in February-April.
Yields and Pyrethrin Content
2.08       No systematic data series exist detailing the yields of dried
flowers. According to a survey of smallholders carried out in 1974 1/, the
average annual yield of dried flowers per ha was 270 kg. Since then, staff of
the Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board (TPB) estimate that yields have been falling,
as a result of adverse climatic conditions and because of aging of plants in
1/   C. Bremer Jespersen, Pyrethrum in the Southern Highlands, 1974.



- 8 -
the absence of replanting-  Current average annual yields are put at 200 kg
per ha, with yields of 100 kg in the first year and 250 kgs in both the
second and third years. The pyrethrin content of dried flowers, which is
measured prior to processing (para. 2.19), depends on the quality of the
planting material, on climatic conditions and on the efficiency -of drying
and marketing operations. Over the last sixteen years for which figures are
available, pyrethrin content remained fairly stable around an average of about
1.25% until 1970/71 since when it has steadily declined to the 1.1% average
overall content recorded in 1978/79. This trend reflects the decline in large
scale production, the absence of improved replanting material and, for the
last three seasons, adverse weather conditions. Details of average pyrethrin
contents since 1962/63 are given in Table T-3 in Annex 1.
2.09      Flower drying.  Pyrethrum flowers require drying before they can
be collected from farmers for processing. The aim is to reduce the moisture
content from around 80% to 10% with minimum loss in dry matter and pyrethrins,
which are heat sensitive and subject to oxidation. Rapid drying with a
minimum of heat is therefore desirable. Natural sun drying is employed as far
as possible. In some areas, however, limited sunshine hours and wet weather
for most of the year make natural drying difficult. Indoor drying on beams
over the fire is not fully satisfactory but must be used in several areas.
Drying in portable driers or barns is much more efficient, reducing the drying
time from 12 days to 12 hours, or less. TPB has 50 small, portable driers on
loan to villages in the Iringa Region and another 50 in Mbeya. Artifical
drying is constrained by scarcity of fuel; pyrethrum growing areas have few
trees and the cost of delivering alternative fuels to isolated highland
stations is prohibitive. There is also scope for increasing the fuel effi-
ciency of driers by design improvements. The Project would provide funds for
a study by consultants of the extent of the drying problem and of possible
solutions to it, and for construction of additional artificial drying capacity,
should this prove feasible (para. 5.11).
D. Services to Pvrethrum Growers
Resea_rch
2.10      Pyrethrum research was started in the late 1950's at Igeri in Iringa
Region. At that time, considerable work in plant selection was carried out by
research staff with the assistance of pyrethrum field staff and growers. In
1968, research was halted, following the decline in market prospects (para.
2.05), and it was not until 1974 that research on pyrethrum was resumed. At
present pyrethrum research is carried out by staff of the Uyole Agricultural
Center (UAC) (para. 3.11) at Uyole itself and at three offstations.  The
emphasis of this research program is on the selection and multiplication
of high yielding plants which have flowers with a high pyrethrin content.
Agronomic research, for example on the use of fertilizers, crop rotation,
weeding and spacing, is also carried out. The present selection program is
understaffed and too small to produce results in a reasonable period; it would
be strengthened and expanded under the Project (paras. 5.14-5.16). The status
of research on agronomy is generally satisfactory.



-9-
Extension
2.11      Pyrethrum growers are provided with a low level of extension ser-
vice. The Mbeya regional administration employs about one hundred extension
agents to cover over 500 villages, and in Iringa there are about sixty re-
gional field staff to cover almost 600 villages. Until 1977, the regional
extension staff were solely responsible for pyrethrum extension. Since
then, the Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board (TPB) has employed some Assistant Pro-
duction Officers (APO's). TPB currently has eight APO's in Iringa Region (of
whom three are certificate holders while the remainder have only short-course
training) and five APO's in Mbeya (of whom only one is a certificate holder).
On average, each APO is therefore responsible for about 1,500 growers. TPB's
long-term objective is that these APO's should work through the region's
village-level extension workers, and act as specialist pyrethrum advisers. At
present, the weaknesses of the regional extension service preclude this.
2.12      This low intensity of extension is in part responsible for the
relatively low flower yields obtained in the Project area. However, the
problems facing the extension services are manifold and deep-rooted, (para.
1.07) and it would be unrealistic to expect major improvement during the
next few years. The Project therefore provides for only a modest expansion of
TPB's field staff (para. 5.10) to enable TPB to manage the production and
distribution under the Project of improved planting material, and accordingly
only modest improvements in flower yield are projected (para. 8.01).
Credit
2.13      Since pyrethrum requires virtually no material inputs other than
planting material, and since planting material has been provided to farmers
free of charge, there has been no need for the provision of production credit
for pyrethrum growing. Some pyrethrum growers (the exact proportion is not
known, but it is likely to be less than 20 percent) receive credit for maize
production through the National Maize Project (supported by IDA Credit 606-TA).
Marketing and Processing
2.14      Primary Marketing and Transport.  TPB buys dried flowers only
from licensed growers. Flowers are purchased on a cash basis. Licenses are
issued to individuals cultivating 2 ha or more of pyrethrum, or to groups
of farmers who collectively cultivate more than 2 ha. Individual licenses
were introduced in 1978/79, to encourage farmers to care for their crop;
such license holders can sell their flowers either directly to TPB or through
their village. There are about 800 individuals at present with licenses
and 300 active groups. A registration number is used to distinguish all
flowers produced by the license holder. Most group licenses are held by
villages and about 90 are empowered by TPB to act as buying agents and receive
a fee on pyrethrum that they handle. To qualify as agents, villages must be
registered, have a lockable store and a literate Village Manager or Secretary.
Production from villages which are not TPB agents is handled by purchasing
clerks operating from about 20 buying centers/stores. Purchased flowers



- 10 -
are brought to the buying centers by four-wheel drive vehicles. The buying
centers were originally built and owned by cooperative societies which are
now defunct and in the hands of a liquidator to whom TPB pays rent. Ihese
stores are generally in poor condition. New market centers/stores would be
constructed in strategic locations under the Project (para. 5.12). Villages
in isolated areas are served by TPB mobile purchasing units.
2.15      Dried flowers are taken in 7-ton trucks from the villages and TPB
buying centers to four main stores operated by TPB in Mbeya, Njombe, Chimala
and Iringa (Map IBRD 14436) and from there by truck or truck and rail to
Arusha for processing. These operations are seriously constrained, however,
by the poor state of the district and feeder roads and by poor management and
organization of the TPB transport fleet which is, in any case, insufficient.
The long haul transport situation will be greatly improved when the new
Mafinga extracting plant comes on stream in 1980 (para. 2.16). The other
transport problems are addressed under the Project by the provision of trucks
and four wheel drive vehicles to TPB (para. 5.13), by the improvement of TPB
transport management (para. 5.19) and by a program of road improvement (paras.
5.23-5.27).
2.16      Processing.  Flower processing is currently undertaken by the
Tanganyika Extract Company (TECO) (para. 3.10) in Arusha. The factory, which
was built in 1961, has an installed capacity of around 6,000 tons of dried
flowers. Another processing plant with a capacity of about 4,600 tons is
under construction by TPB at Mafinga (Iringa Region) and is expected to be
operational by mid-1980. When the Mafinga plant starts to operate, the Arusha
plant will no longer be required, since practically no production now comes
from the Arusha area, and since the Mafinga plant, which is designed for
ultimate expansion to 8,500 metric tons capacity, will be sufficient to handle
production for the foreseeable future. During negotiations, GOT indicated
that, once the Mafinga plant is operation, the Arusha plant would be closed,
its Staff transferred to Mafinga, and any flower production from the Arusha
region sold as pyrethrum powder, which would be produced by an existing small
powder plant and for which there is a local market.
2.17      Refining.  Tanzania currently exports crude extract containing 25%
pyrethrins. This product has a high wax content and requires refining for use
in aerosols. The possibility of constructing a refinery in Tanzania is under
consideration by GOT, but a detailed feasibility study has yet to be carried
out. While in the long run it is probably desirable for Tanzania to establish
its own refining capacity to diversify its market outlets, no marketing
problems for crude extract are expected over the next five years, during which
pyret:hrum will be in short supply in world markets (para. 7.15). Construction
of a refinery should be delayed until flower production has increased sub-
stantially, until TPB's financial position (para. 3.09) can support such
an irnvestment and until the operations of a new refinery in Rwanda can be
evaluated.  This refinery is due to come on stream at the end of 1980 and
incorporates a technology which is considerably cheaper than available alter-
natives.



- 11 -
2.18      Export Marketing.  In 1974, responsibility for export marketing of
pyrethrum extract and marc passed from Mitchell Cotts to TECO and the General
Agricultural Products Export Company (GAPEX), a parastatal. In 1977, TPB
assumed responsibility for these activities. Pyrethrum products are sold on
a contract basis, at prices announced in advance by TPB after consultation
with Kenya and Rwanda, the world's other major producers. The volume of
exports over the last five calendar years for which data are available is
tabulated below:
Tanzanian Extract and Marc Export Volume, 1974-78
Pyrethrum Extract                Pyrethrum Marc
------------------ (m tons) -----------------
1974                              86.3                          1,286
1975                             137.2                          2,280
1976                             118.4                          1,810
1977                              95.8                          1,658
1978                              74.1                          2,812
Extract exports have been falling since 1975, as flower production has dec-
lined. Exports of marc have been erratic, as sales are less regular, and
stocks are often carried over from one year to the next. At the present
time, 80% of Tanzania's exports of pyrethrum extract go to the US, and 16%
to Canada. Almost all of the pyrethrum marc exported goes to Japan.
E. Producer and Export Prices
Flower Prices
2.19      The price paid to growers for dried flowers depends on the pyrethrin
content of the flowers, as measured when the flowers arrive at the processing
factory. At the time of purchase, farmers are paid in cash the price for the
lowest grade; a second payment is made as appropriate after the pyrethrin
content has been determined. In 1974/75, TPB experimented with payment of a
uniform price, irrespective of pyrethrin content. This practice was discon-
tinued after a year, since it appeared to have an adverse effect on grower
incentives, and a quality-related price structure was reinstated in 1975/76.
2.20      The current grading system provides for five grades, ranging from
flowers with less than 1.10% pyrethrins by increments to flowers with pyre-
thrin contents in excess of 1.40%. Producer prices are set by GOT (para 1.11)



- 12 -
taking into account TPB's sales realizations and costs of operations, and
farmer incentives relative to other crops. Recent producer prices are de-
tailed below:
Grade and Price Structure, 1977/78-1980/81 1/
1977/78 & 1978/79      Price (Tsh/kg)       1979/80 & 1980/81      Price (Tsh/kg)
Pyrethrin Content    1977/78  1978/79    Pyrethrin Content    1979/80  1980/81
over 1.51%              6.50      6.50         over 1.40%            7.50    11.00
1.31-1.50%              5.50      6.00         1.30-1.39%            7.00     9.50
1.21-1.30%              4.21      5.00         1.20-1.29%            6.50     8.50
less than 1.20%         4.00      4.60         1.10-1.19             6.00      7.50
Less than 1.10%      5.50      6.50
1/   These dates refer to marketing years, running from July 1 to June 30.
Prices have been increased substantially since 1977/78. In particular,
prices of the lowest grade, which accounts for over 80% of flower purchases,
have risen by over 60%. At current prices, pyrethrum provides attractive
returns to smallholders (para. 8.04). Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that, in order to maintain producer incentives, the Borrower would
continue to review and adjust producer prices annually taking into account
pricess, TPB costs and producer prices of other crops. These matters would be
periodically discussed by GOT and IDA in the course of IDA's involvemenlt with
MDB (para. 1.11).
JXPOrt Prices
2.21      Export prices for extract and marc over the period 1974-1979 are
given below:
Extract and Marc Unit Export Prices, 1974-1979
Extract         Marc
--- (Tsh/m ton) ---
1974                         135,400          766
1975                         144,400          725
1976                         168,800          744
1977                         185,300          879
1978                         218,000          836
1979                         345,900        1,500



- 13 -
The export price of pyrethrum extract has risen by over 150% since 1974, and
the price of marc has almost doubled over the same period. The increase in
prices has been particularly marked in 1979. These increases reflect the
growing shortage of pyrethrum extract and marc on world markets, as production
in Kenya and Tanzania, which accounts for about 90% of total world production,
has declined (para 7.04).
F. Future Prospects
Prices
2.22      An analysis of future price prospects (see Chapter 7 of this report
for details) concludes that the export price of pyrethrum extract and marc is
likely to remain in real terms, at current levels through 1983/84, reflecting
continued supply shortages in world markets. For the following five years,
prices are expected to fall by 5% per year in real terms as the world supply
and demand situation progressively returns to balance. Correspondingly,
prices paid to producers for dried flowers are expected to remain at present
levels in real terms through 1983/84, and thereafter, in order to preserve
TPB's financial position, to decline in real terms. Analysis indicates that to
give TPB adequate margins, producer prices need to fall by 2% per year in real
terms and would then stabilize in 1988/89 at levels equivalent to about 90% of
present producer prices. Analysis of farmer returns (para. 8.03) indicates
that pyrethrum production would remain attractive even at these reduced levels
of producer prices.
Production
2.23      Production of dried flowers is expected to increase from the low
levels of 1978/79 as a result of three factors. Firstly, producer price
increases for the 1979/80 marketing year are beginning to result in an in-
crease in area planted to pyrethrum. Secondly, flower yields have undoubtedly
been depressed during the past three years by adverse weather conditions.
Thirdly, a pyrethrum development program is being undertaken in Iringa Region
as part of a broader program of development in Iringa, supported by the
European Community. Under this program, sufficient planting material for up
to 4,000 ha of pyrethrum is expected to be made available to farmers over the
next three years. The expected future pattern of production, (without Project
investments) is expected to be:
1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83 1983/84 onwards
Number of growers            20,000   22,000   28,700   29,100   31,100    33,100
Pyrethrum area (ha)           8,000    8,700   11,200   11,800   12,600    13,400
Dried flower yield (kg/ha)    200         235       235      235       235        235
Dried flower prod. (m tons) 1,600    2,050    2,555   2,758          2,961      3,078
Pyrethrin content (%)          1.10      1.10      1.10    1.10       1.10       1.10
By 1983, a total of about 33,000 farmers are expected to be growing pyrethrum,
producing almost 3,100 m tons of dried flowers annually.



- 14 -
III. EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. The Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board
Background
3.01      The Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board (TPB) was established by the Pyrethrum
Ordinance (Amendment) Act of 1965. Until 1974, TPB functioned solely as
the body responsible for licensing growers. In 1974, TPB acquired the shares
of the Tanganyika Extract Company (TECO) (para. 3.10) from the former owners,
Mitchell Cotts, and thus assumed responsibility for flower processing. In
1976, TPB took over from cooperative societies (which were dissolved by
the Government in that year) responsibility for flower purchase from farmers.
In 1977, TPB took over responsibility for pyrethrum product marketing from
GAPEX and TECO.
3.02      The broad objectives of TPB are the promotion and supervision of
the pyrethrum industry, and the development of increased production. Its
present activities include the purchase of pyrethrum flowers, the marketing
of pyrethrum products, the promotion of research, the operation of two large-
scale farms, the development of production and, once the Mafinga extract
plant (para. 2.16) is commissioned, the processing of pyrethrum flowers.
Organization and Management
3.03      TPB is controlled by a Board of fifteen directors, appointed by the
MinLster of Agriculture, and chaired by an Executive Chairman who is appointed
by the President of the Republic of Tanzania.  The Board includes representa-
tives of the Ministries of Agriculture (Kilimo) and Finance and Planning,
the Regional Development Directors of Iringa, Mbeya and Arusha Regions, the
General Manager of TECO and representatives of growers. Day-to-day respon-
sibility for TPB operations rests with the Executive Officer, who is also a
Presidential appointee, and to whom all department heads report.
3.04      TPB's headquarters is presently in Dar-es-Salaam.  This siting
is inappropriate, since it is distant both from the production areas and
from the processing facilities. Provision would be made under the Project
(para. 5.21) for the head office of TPB to be relocated to Iringa. TPB
currently employs 230 persons, and is organized into four headquarters depart-
ments and three regional offices; a Manufacturing Department will be added
once the Mafinga plant is commissioned (Chart C-1, Annex 1). The
Admiinistration Department is in charge of personnel management, publicity and
the provision of general services such as procurement. The Finance Department
is responsible for maintaining accounts, for controlling cash flows and for
moniitoring TPB's overall financial position. The Marketing Department is
responsible for sales (both domestic and export) of pyrethrum extract and
other products. The Planning and Production Department is responsible for
overall planning of TPB operations, for operating TPB's two large farms, and
for providing marketing and extension services to producers. TPB's Regional
Offices are in Arusha, Mbeya and Iringa Regions; the Iringa Region would have



- 15 -
two District Offices, in Mufindi and Makete Districts, once regional and
district office accommodation has been constructed under the Project (para.
5.21).
3.05      TPB's current staffing is not commensurate with its responsibili-
ties, which have increased markedly since 1974. Weaknesses are particularly
evident within the Finance Department, which lacks sufficient qualified
personnel and effective accounting systems and controls, and within the
Planning and Production Department, which has insufficient qualified technical
staff. TPB's staffing, particularly within these two departments, would
therefore be strengthened under the Project (para. 5.18).
Finances
3.06      Largely as a result of staff weaknesses within the Finance Depart-
ment, TPB's accounts are not up-to-date. The last audited accounts relate
to the year ending June 30, 1977 (FY77), and accounts for FY78 and FY79 are
undergoing audit at present. Appraisal of TPB's current financial status is
thus difficult. Summary income statements and balance sheets for FY75 - FY79
are presented in Tables T-4 and T-5 respectively, in Annex 1. Figures for
FY75, FY76 and FY77 are audited, figures for FY78 are from draft accounts and
figures for FY79 are based on TPB and IDA staff estimates.
3.07      TPB made after-tax profits of Tsh 104,000 in FY75 and Tsh 497,000
in FY76. In these years, TPB's income was derived only from management
fees (based on export realization) and a levy (based on TECO throughout)
which were paid to TPB by TECO. In 1977, TPB purchased flowers from growers
and sold them to TECO for processing. TPB made a small loss (of Tsh 53,000)
in that year. In FY78, when TPB began marketing pyrethrum products on its
own account, a loss of Tsh 1.2 million (equal to 5% of revenue) was made.
These losses resulted from TPB's taking over responsibility for marketing (and
thus raising its costs) while producer prices (set by Kilimo) had not been
adjusted to reflect this. In FY79, despite rising export prices, TPB is
estimated to have a net deficit of about Tsh 3 million, as a result of declining
flower production (para. 2.05).
3.08      TPB's net worth (representing the sum of an initial capital grant
from GOT, capital grants for smallholder development and for construction
of the Mafinga plant, and accumulated net income) rose from Tsh 2.3 million
in FY75 to an estimated Tsh 32 million in FY79. TPB had no long-term debt in
FY75, but at the end of FY79 had accumulated, Tsh 21.6 million in long-term
loans from the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) to finance construction of the
Mafinga plant. However, the long-term debt to net worth ratio remains satis-
factory at 0.6:1. TPB had an overdraft estimated at Tsh 18 million at end
FY79, and a current assets/current liabilities ratio of 0.9:1. Overall, TPB's
liquidity is thus somewhat strained.
3.09      Projections, in the 'without-Project' situation, of TPB's income
statements, balance sheets and cash flows (in current price terms) for the
years FY80 through FY90 are given in Annex 1, Tables T-6, T-7 and T-8 respec-
tively. These tables have been drawn up on the basis of producer prices,



- 16 -
export prices and production figures given in paras. 2.21 and 2.22.  Over this
period, except for FY80 and FY81 (when losses of Tsh 2.7 million and Tsh 1.1
million respectively are expected), TPF is expected to earn consistently
positive net incomes, which total Tsh 19.7 million (in current prices) over
the period. The balance sheet is expected to improve. Total n. worth would
rise to Tsh 58.3 million, all long-term loans would repaid, and the current
assets/current liabilities ratio would remain satisfactory throughout the
period. The cash flow statements indicate a cumulative cash inflow over the
period of Tsh 49 million which wgould result in TPB's accumulating surplus
cash reserves of Tsh 30.9 million, wnich would be available for further
investment or distribution as dividends. TPB's future financial prospects
are therefore satisfactory.
The 'Tanganyika Extract Company
3.10      The Tanganyika Extract Company (TECO) was established in 1962 as
a private company controlled by Mitchell Cotts (a British company). TECO's
function was to purchase and process dried flowers and to market pyrethrum
products. In 1974, TECO was nationalized, and its shares held by TPB on
beha:Lf of GOT. TECO-s main asset is an extract plant in Arusha. However,
the need for this plant will be eliminated once TPB's Mafinga plant comes
on stream, and TECO would thus have no part in Project execution.
B. The Uyole Agricultural Center
3.11      The Uyole Agricultural Center (UAC) was initially established at
UIyole in Mbeya Region by GOT with assistance from Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
Norway and Sweden as an Agricultural Research and Training Institute, intended
to serve the regions of Mbeya, Iringa, Rukwa and Ruvuma.  Most of the research
departments were established by 1973, and by the end of 1975, the training
program was fully operational. In 1976, UAC assumed its present legal status
as a public corporation, w7holly owmed by GOT. TJAC is controlled by a Board
of Directors, appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. Responsibility for
the day-to-day operations of UAC rests with the Managing Director, who is a
presidential appointee. The objectives of UAC are to carry out a production-
oriented program of applied research, to deal with the problems of surrounding
regions, and to provide diploma-level, certificate-level and short-course
training for agricultural staff.
3.12      The research activities of UAC are carried out by nine research
departments, covering crop husbandry, plant breeding, agro-economics agricul-
tural engineering, horticulture, plant protection, soil science, pasture,
agronomy, and livestock. UAC carries out research work at six offstations
(of which three are used for pyrethrum research) in addition to Uyole. The
training activities at UAC cover eleven subjects - agricultural extension,
agricultural science, agro-economics, agricultural engineering, agronomy,
animal production, food processing, home economics, horticulture, land use
planning and veterinary science.



- 17 -
C. Ministry of Works
3.13      The Ministry of Works (MOW) is primarily responsible for the plan-
ning of highway investments and for the reconstruction and maintenance of
trunk roads. Maintenance of the secondary and tertiary road network is
the responsibility of the regional administrations, which also carry out
the maintenance of trunk roads, using equipment and funds from MOW. MOW
also gives administrative and technical support to several units set up
under externally-financed projects for the improvement and maintenance of
feeder roads in rural areas. These include units set up under the IDA-
financed Third Highway Project (Cr. 265-TA) and Tea Project (Cr. 287-TA), and
feeder road betterment units set up with Norwegian aid. MOW's long-term
policy is to disengage itself from involvement in feeder road improvement and
maintenance, but the serious problems of organization, staffing, training
and lack of equipment that affect regional roads departments make such
disengagement infeasible in the short term.
3.14      MOW is organized into six operating divisions:  Buildings Division,
Mechanical Division, Roads and Aerodromes Division, Manpower Department and
Administration-Division, Planning Division and Government Stores. Respon-
sibility for road construction and maintenance rests with the Roads and
Aerodromes Division, whose Director is a road engineer. The Division suffers
from a shortage of qualified staff. Hence, technical assistance staff would
be financed under the Project to implement the Project's proposed feeder road
improvement and maintenance component (paras. 5.23-5.27).
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
Altitude, Climate and Soils
4.01      The Project would be implemented in the pyrethrum-growing highland
areas of the Iringa and Mbeya Regions of Southern Tanzania (see Map IBRD
14436), which comprise six major zones: Umalila, Mporoto, Uwanje, Ukinga,
Ubena and Ludewa. The Pyrethrum growing areas range in altitude from 1,700 m
to 2,700 m. Rainfall, which occurs in a single rainy season (December to
April at the lower altitudes, November to May at higher altitudes), ranges
from about 1,000 mm per year in parts of Umalila and Ubena, to over 1,800 mm
in parts of Ukinga. Soils in the pyrethrum growing areas encompass red
clays, yellow clays, dark-brown loams of volcanic origin, sandy loams and
red sandy soils which are slightly acidic. These conditions are good for
pyrethrum cultivation (para. 2.02).
Farming Patterns
4.02      Average cultivated area per family on pyrethrum - growing farms
ranges from about 1.4 ha in Mporoto zone to over 2.6 ha in Ludewa zone. Other
widely-grown crops are maize, wheat and Irish potatoes. Maize is particularly
important in the Umalila and Ubena areas. Cropping patterns on a typical
pyrethrum-growing farm in each of the main pyrethrum-growing areas are esti-
rated to be as follows:



- 18 -
Typical Cropping Patterns
CroF             Umalila    Mporoto    Uwanje    Ukinga    Ubena    Ludewa
------------------------- Hectares -----------------------
Pyrethrum           0.47       0.34       0.32       0.40      0.53      0.53
Maize               1.21        0.50      1.20       0.53       1.28     0.95
Wheat               0.03        0.31      0.10       0.58      0.11      0.09
Peas                0.43       0.12       0.02       0.07      0.19      0.21
Others 1/           0.06       0.14       0.11       0.60      0.47      0.87
2.20       1.41       1.75      2.18       2.58      2.65
Transport
4.03      The main transport arteries in Mbeya and Iringa Regions are the
Tanzania-Zambia (TAN-ZAM) highway and the TAZARA railway also linking Tanzania
to Zambia (Map IBRD 14436). The TAN-ZAM highway has been upgraded to two-lane
asphalt standards with assistance from USAID and from the Bank Group under
the Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA and Credit 142-TA). Pyrethrum traffic
uses this highway in preference to the TAZARA railway, which is experiencing
severe operational problems, and this preference is likely to continue in the
future, since the new extract plant at Mafinga is not located on the railway.
4.04      In the pyrethrum-growing areas, a network of district and feeder
roads provides access to the villages where pyrethrum is grown (Map IBRD
14386). This network connects with the TAN-ZAM highway and with the paved
Nbeya-Lake Nyasa road via local main and regional roads, which are in a
relatively satisfactory condition and passable in all weathers. District
and f'eeder roads, however, generally consist of bare tracks which can be
negotiated only with difficulty in the dry season and which are impassable
during the rains. There is extensive rutting and potholing, culverts are
missing, and drainage ditches are inadequate and badly maintained. As a
result, transport costs are high and vehicle life shorts
4.05      Pyrethrum flowers are produced, and thus require to be marketed,
year-round, and yields are in fact highest during the rains. The delays in
marketing and processing which occur as a result of the poor condition of the
feeder road network lead to a marked reduction in the pyrethrin content of
dried flowers because of oxidation. Under the Project, therefore, selected
district and feeder roads serving pyrethrum growing areas would be upgraded
and maintained to all-weather standards to facilitate pyrethrum marketing
(paras. 5.23-5.27).
1/   Mainly potatoes, but also millet, sorghum, beans, sunflower, groundnuts
and vegetables.



- 19 -
4.06      Responsibility for the maintenance of all roads in Mbeya and Iringa
regions rests with the Works Division of the respective regional administra-
tions. However, these are constrained by lack of finance, equipment, work-
shops and workshop tools, trained staff and spare parts, and as a result
maintenance is only sporadic, and often carried out only on an emergency
basis following damage caused by heavy rains and flooding. In both Mbeya and
Iringa regions efforts are underway, supported by external financing agen-
cies (Norway in Mbeya and the EEC in Iringa), to strengthen the capabilities
of the Works Divisions. While such efforts will need time to come to fruition
(and for this reason the road improvement and maintenance component proposed
under the Project would be administered by MOW), it is anticipated that the
regional road maintenance capacities would be sufficient, after the end of the
Project's road component, to continue the maintenance of the roads which would
have been improved under the Project.
Socio-economic Conditions
4.07      Although Mbeya and Iringa regions are, overall, amongst the weal-
thier regions of Tanzania (Mbeya ranking fifth and Iringa tenth of the twenty
regions, on the basis of per-capita GDP), the pyrethrum-growing regions
are relatively poor, mainly because of their isolation. Little systematic
data exist on farm incomes in the Project area, but it is estimated, on
the basis of cropping patterns, yields and producer prices, that the average
annual per capita income (including subsistence) of pyrethrum growers is
about Tsh 650 (US$80), and that annual per capita cash income is Tsh 425
(US$50), all figures in 1979 prices. The absolute rural poverty level in
Tanzania is about $105 in 1979 prices, so that the majority of pyrethrum-
growing families (probably about 85%) live in absolute poverty.
V. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
5.01      The Project was originally prepared by GOT with assistance from the
Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA) as part of a larger project,
the National Agricultural Development Program Phase I (NADP I). NADP I was
appraised by IDA in June 1977. However, it was not possible to complete
appraisal of the pyrethrum component at that time because the roads program
had not been adequately prepared and there was insufficient data available on
the financial status of TPB and on the costs of pyrethrum marketing and
processing. During 1978 and early 1979, consultants undertook detailed
reviews of these aspects, and project preparation was completed in February
1979 by GOT with further RMEA assistance.
5.02      The Project would, over a five year period, have the primary objec-
tive of raising the cash incomes of smallholder pyrethrum growers in the
highlands of Mbeya and Iringa Regions by assisting these farmers to expand



-20 -
their output of dried pyrethrum flowers through the provision of planting
material and improved research, extension, marketing and road transport
services.  Specificaliy9, the Project would provide for:
(a)  the expansion of smallholder production through:  the
production and distribution of improved planting mate.al
and, on ar. interim basis, unimproved planting material;
the improvement of pest control; the expansion of TPB's
field staff; the improvement of flower drying techniques;
the construction of additional TPB market centers/stores;
and the expansion of TPB's transport fleet;
(b) the strengthening of the existing research program of the
Uyole Agricultural Center (UAC) through: the construction
and equipping of additional laboratory facilities; the
funding of additional research staff and staff training;
the establishment of three new off-stations; and the financ-
ing of research operations;
(c)  the strengthening of TPBs operations through:  the
provision of both long-term and short-term technical
assistance and stafL training; the construction of new
office accommodation for TPB; and the provision of
vehicles for TPB headquarters staff;
(d) the improvement and maintenance of feeder roads through:
the establishment of a fully staffed and equipped Road
Improvement and Maintenance Unit (RIMMU); and the financing
of the costs of operations of the RIMU.
5.03      Responsibility for implementation of the smallholder production
component would rest with TPB as strengthened under the Project. UAC would
implement the expanded research program, and the RIMU, administered by and
receiving technical support from MOW, would carry out the roads program.
The location of proposed Project investments is shown on Map IBRD 14386.
B. Detailed Features
Smallholder Production Program
5.04      Improved Planting Material.  Six existing bulking centers, (three
in Mbeya and three in Iringa Regions) would be expanded and four new centers
established in Iringa; suitable sites have been identified, and land is
available. The centers would be used to multiply selected improved material,
obtained from UAC or TPB's two large farms, for distribution to farmers. The
distribution and size of the centers reflects the fact that two-thirds of the
planting material produced under the Project is expected to be distributed in
Iringa Regior. Within Iringa, it is estimated that 75% of the material would
go to Njombe and the recently created Makete Districts with the balance of 25%



- 21 -
going to Iringa and Mufindi Districts. The planting material to be bulked
would be a clone which, although selected twenty years ago, is superior to
planting material now in general use. By the end of the Project period, the
bulking centers would have access to improved clonal material from UAC.
5.05      Planting material produced by bulking centers would be further
multiplied in village nurseries before being distributed to farmers. In
Year I of the Project (PYI), 45 ha of village nurseries would be established.
In PY2, this would rise to 135 ha and in PY3 and succeeding years, to 200
ha. These nurseries would be located close to villages where planting material
is required, in order to reduce transport costs and plant mortality. The size
of each nursery would vary according to demand; the average size is expected
to be 2 ha. They would not be permanent, but would be relocated periodically
in accordance with farmer demand. Each nursery would be managed by a headman,
recruited locally on a temporary basis by TPB, and supervised by TPB field
staff. TPB has had experience with the operation of village nurseries since
40 ha were established and operated, generally satisfactorily, during the
1978/79 season. The Project would finance the costs of operations of the
bulking centers and village nurseries, which comprise the costs of fertilizers,
nematocides, pesticides, transport, tools and labor.
5.06      The output of village nurseries would be sufficient to plant 160 ha
of farmers' fields in PYI, 610 ha in PY2, 1,080 ha in PY3 and 1,650 ha in
succeeding years. This planting material would be treated prior to dis-
tribution to ensure that it would be nematode-free, and would be distributed
to farmers free of charge, in accordance with TPB's current practice. There
is no established credit system for pyrethrum farmers (para. 2.13) and given
the low input requirements for pyrethrum production and the scattered and
isolated locations of pyrethrum producing villages, it would be prohibitively
expensive to establish such a system. Without credit, however, many farmers
would not be able to afford the initial cost of establishing pyrethrum plots
if improved planting material were charged for, and would therefore continue
to use their present inferior material. Production and distribution of
planting material through bulking centers and village nurseries would be a
permanent long-term program to continually upgrade planting material through
the dissemination of improved material selected at UAC. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that TPB would continue to provide this service
to farmers after the completion of IDA disbursements. In effect, the costs
would be met by a reduction in producer prices, since these are set taking in
account TPB revenues and costs.
5.07      Unimproved Planting Material.  Substantial quantities of improved
planting material would become available only in PY3 and subsequent years,
since little improved material is currently available to be bulked. To meet
the present demand for planting material in areas where even unimproved
material is in short supply, the Project would fund, in PYI, PY2 and PY3 only,
a program to produce and distribute unimproved planting material grown from
seed. This program would complement the similar EEC program in Iringa Region
(para. 2.22).



- 22 -
5.08      In PYI, 40 ha of seedling nurseries would be developed, using seed
produced at TPB's Ilinde and Mahenye farms in 1979/80. In PYI and PY2, the
Project would finance the production of seed at these farms on 125 ha and
100 ha respectively. The resultant seed would be sufficient to plant 50 ha
of seedling nursery in PY2 and 40 ha in PY3. These nurseries would be 1-2
ha in size, an- would be located close to a source of water for irrigation
and close to the point of demand. These nurseries would produce sufficient
seedlings for 500 ha of farmers' fields in PYI, 600 ha in PY2 and 500 ha in
PY3. Planting material would be made available to farmers free of charge.
Project investments would cover the costs of fertilizer, nematocides, tools
and labor. As a result of this program, it is expected that the number of
pyrethrum growers would be increased by 4,000.
5.09      Pest Control.  One hundred knapsack sprayers and a supply of in-
secticide (probably Sumithion) would be provided to combat "thrips," an insect
infestation which occurs sporadically in lower, warmer areas. Only about 5%
of farmers' fields are affected in any one year and for this reason, routine
spraying is uneconomic. The problem can become serious, however, if outbreaks
are not controlled. The sprayers would be held by TPB staff at bulking
centers and at selected villages in vulnerable areas. They would be lent
to farmers free of charge when needed; farmers would pay for the costs of
insecticide.
5.10      Incremental TPB field staff.  At present, only four of TPB's
Assistant Production Officers are fully trained to certificate level (para.
2.11). To assist in supervision of planting material production and distri-
bution, TPB would be allocated by the Ministry of Agriculture a further
16 certificate holders and two diploma holders, to be employed by TPB as
field staff. Twelve of these certificate holders and the diplomates would
be available, having completed training, in July 1980, and the remaining four
cert:ificate-level staff in July 1981. This level of field staffing would
be sufficient for implementation of this Project, but would still be less
intensive than desirable.  GOT has indicated its intention to strengthen
regional extension services (para. 1.07), but no decision has yet been made on
how this would be done. Assurances were obtairled during negotiations that
Kilimo, TPB and the Iringa and Nbeya regional aut_rities, riot later than
June 30, 1982, would review and discuss with !iDA the adequacy of extension
services for the Project area including the number of extension staff and
arrangements for supervision of village level staff, and if necessary, pro-
posals for the improvement of such services. Amongst possible ways to improve
extension services would be the further expansion of TPB's field staff coupled
with the transfer of the costs of operation of these field staff to the Kilimo
budget, as has been done recently for other parastatals (most notably, the
Tobacco Authority of Tanzania).
5.11      Flower-drying Techniques.  Present techniques used for flower-drying
in the Project area are sun-drying, barn-drying and drying in small portable
driers (para. 2.09). A considerable proportion of pyrethrins is lost with
all of these methods. Provision would therefore be made for TPB to obtain
from a consulting firm the services of a team of three consultants (a drying



- 23 -
specialist, an economist and a draughtsman) to review the needs of the various
parts of the Project area, which differ climatically, to assess the economic
viability of alternative methods of drying given the limited availability of
fuels in the Project area, and to draw up detailed proposals for the imple-
mentation of improved drying procedures where necessary. The coxisultai.zs
would be employed for a total of about 10 manmonths. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that their recruitment would be in accordance with IDA guidelines
and that their terms of reference and conditions of service would be acceptable
to IDA. The likely outcome of the consultants' studies would be recommendations
for the establishment of pilot drying facilities, and a sum of Tsh. 2.0
million (US$250,000) would be made available to implement such recommendations.
During negotiations, it was agreed that these funds would be disbursed by IDA
only after agreement has been reached between IDA and TPB on the consultants'
recommendations and their detailed implementation.
5.12      TPB Buying Centers/Stores.  TPB's existing buying centers/stores
are often in poor repair, leading to some deterioration and spoilage of dried
flowers. The present number and capacity of these centers/stores is not
sufficient for safe storage of dried flowers and various inputs during the
rains when truck collections can be delayed. Provision would therefore be
made for the construction of stores in 12 locations where existing facilities
are 4udged inadequate and in two new locations. All the stores would be
90 m wish a capacity of 25 tons of flowers except for Ndulamo which would
be 175 m with a capacity of 50 tons of flowers. The stores would be located
in Uwemba and Ndulamo, in Njombe District; Ujuni, Matamba and Ipeleke in
Makete District; Kilolo and Lupila in Iringa District; Kipanga in Mufindi
District; and Santilya, Ilembo, Simanbwe, Ileje, Igoma and Lufilya in Mbeya
District (Map IBRD 14386). Construction of these stores would be phased over
the first three years of the Project. TPB would continue to operate the four
main collecting stores it now operates in Mbeya, Chimala, Njombe and Iringa,
whose capacities are adequate.
5.13      Transport.  Twelve 7-ton trucks would be provided to TPB for trans-
port of dried flowers from TPB's buying centers to its main stores. The
trucks would have specially constructed high sides since pyrethrum flowers
are bulky in relation to weight. Such trucks are too specialized to be
attractive to either private truckers or to regional trucking companies.
Five four-wheel drive station-wagons would also be provided to reach pyrethrum
producing villages inaccessible to trucks, and to transport buying clerks
and other administrative officials. All these vehicles would also be used
for input supply, in particular for supply of planting material from the
bulking centers (para. 5.05). In addition, 22 motorcycles would be provided
for the use of existing and incremental TPB field staff. It was agreed
during negotiations that these motorcycles would be purchased by the field
staff using loans from TPB, and that TPB would pay these staff monthly operat-
ing allowances.
Pyrethrum Research Program
5.14      The main focus of the present pyrethrum research program (para.
2.10) is on the selection and clonal propagation of improved planting mate-
rial. Promising plants from farmers' fields are collected and put through



- 24 -
a seven-year, four-stage process of single-plant observations, line obser-
vations, initial yield trials and adaptability trials. The first two stages
are conducted at Uyole, W4ith the thi-d and fourth stages also involving three
offstations, at Igoma in Mbeya Region and at Kinyika and Igeri in Iringa
Region.  The first recomviendations of improved selections are rLU  expected
until 1982, reflecting the fact that research of this nature did not begin
until 1974.
5.15      The present research program is understaffed (only one part-time
researcher is currently assigned to it). The period between initial collection
of planting material and recommendations of improved material is relatively
long (seven years); the present number of offstations does not adequately
reflect the ecological range of pyrethrum-growing areas, and the program
is short of equipment and operating funds.
5.16      The Project would fund the employment of an internationally-
recruited Research Officer, who would be stationed at Uyole and who would work
full-time on pyrethrum research. A tissue-culture unit (which would include
an operations room, a laboratory, an evaluation room and greenhouse) would be
constructed at Uyole, and would be staffed by two laboratory technicians
financed under the Project. To assist UAC in the introduction of tissue-
culture techniques (which would be new to Tanzania) funding would be provided
under the Project for UAC to obtain, on a contract basis, long term research
support from an institution (probably a university) with expertise in the use
of tlhis technique, and to employ, for about four man-months, a specialist to
design suitable facilities and draw up a list of equipment required. The
introduction of tissue culture techniques would, by facilitating the rapid
multiplication of clonal material, shorten by at least two years the time
taken to produce research recommendations. A further three offstations would
be established (at Santilya in Mbeya, Kitowa in Iringa and at one other
location to be determined); these, plus the existing offstations, would be
giveni an adequate range of growing conditions. A special unit (staffed by two
laboratory technicians) for the speedy analysis of flower samples would be
established in the laboratory of the Mafinga extract plant, to provide rapid
and accurate feedback to research staff on pyrethrin content of research
material. The Project would provide funds for the interchange of plant
material with other pyrethrum-producing countries, for visits to other
pyrethrum producers by research staff and for training of Tanzanian research
staff. Six houses, a four-wheel drive vehicle and six motor-cycles would be
provided for incremental staff, and during the Project period, the operating
costs of the expanded research program would be met under the Project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the research support services
would be obtained under terms of reference and conditions of contract satis-
factory to IDA, and that GOT would provide, after the period of IDA disburse-
ments, sufficient funds for the continued operation of the expanded research
program. It was also agreed during negotiations that GOT would give UAC
assistance as necessary to acquire sites for the construction of housing and
facilities.



- 25 -
Strengthening of TPB
5.17      TPB's responsibilities have grown over the past few years and would
be further expanded under the Project. To assist TPB to manage these respon-
sibilities, a series cf institution building measures would be financed under
the Project.
5.18      Incremental TPB Staff.  A Financial Controller would be recruited
internationally, who would have overall responsibility within TPB for account-
ing and financial administration. The present Chief Accountant would serve as
the Financial Controller's deputy, would receive training under the Project
(para. 5.20) and would be expected to become Financial Controller after a
minimum period of five years. Two agronomists would be recruited inter-
nationally. A Planning and Production Agronomist would work at TPB HQ
under the Production and Planning Manager, with overall responsibility for
the planning and management of the Project's smallholder production component,
and a Field Agronomist would work in close collaboration with the Iringa
and Hlbeya Regional Production Managers, and would assist them in the day-to-
day implementation of the smallholder production component, in particular
the planting material programs. The costs of employment of these inter-
nationally-recruited staff are estimated at US$70,000 per annum, including
salary, international travel and benefits. A Transport Officer, a Cost
Accountant, an Internal Auditor, a Planning Officer, a Statistician/Evaluation
Officer and a Procurement Officer would be locally recruited and financed
under the Project.
5.19      Short-term technical assistance.  Six man-months of short-term
consultancy would be financed under the Project at an estimated cost per
man-month (including salaries, overhead costs, fees, international travel and
subsistence) of Tsh 75,000 (US$9,000), for a study of TPB's transport management
systems and the formulation of improvements. This study would be carried out
by staff of the National Institute of Productivity in Dar-es-Salaam, which has
expertise in this area. Completion of this latter study and agreement between
TPB and IDA on implementation of its recommendations would be a condition of
disbursement for trucks, four-wheel-drive vehicles and motorcycles purchased
by TPB. It was agreed at negotiations that these consultants would be
employed under terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory
to IDA.
5.20      Staff training.  Funds would be provided under the Project for
the training of Tanzanian TPB staff. In PY1, all TPB field staff would
receive a two-week training course at Uyole. In each succeeding year,
refresher courses would be given to half of TPB's field staff. UAC is
satisfactorily staffed and equipped to provide such training. Funds are also
provided under the Project for TPB staff to participate in both overseas and
local training courses and seminars, covering subjects such as administration,
finance, marketing, factory management and personnel management. In addition,
the internationally-recruited staff (particularly the Financial Controller)



- 26 -
wou:Ld carry out on-the-job training of Tanzanian counterpart and subordinate
staff. It was agreed at negotiations that, no later than December 31., 1980,
TPB would draw up, for discussion with IDA, a detailed training program
to utilize the funds provided under the Project.
5.21      Offices and Houses.  Under the Project, TPB's head office would be
relocated to Iringa (closer to TPB's field operations). TPB's Iringa
Regional Office would then move to a new office in Njombe. The Project would
also finance the construction of a new district office in Makete, and a new
Regional Office block in Mbeya, where existing accommodation is totally in-
adequate.  In view of the chronic shortage of staff housing in these locations,
housing would be constructed and furnished for TPB stafS in Iringa, Njombe,
Makete and Iringa.  The new Head Office would ue 1150 m  in size, the Iringa
and Mbeya ReFional Offices would each be 190 m , and the Makete dkstrict
office 100 m . A total of ten senior sWaff houses (each of 108 m ), fourteee
middle level staff houses (each of 82 m ) and one junior staff house of 60 m
would be constructed.  It was agreed during negotiations that GOT would
assist TPB as necessary to acquire the sites for these houses and offices.
5.22      Vehicles.  The purchase of five four-wheel drive vehicles would be
financed under the Project, for the use of TPB's Executive Officer, Planning
and Production Manager, two Agronomists and Financial Controller, and as
necessary by other TPB staff involved in Project implementation.
Road Improvement and Maintenance
5.23      The Project would finance the improvement and maintenance of about
200 km of selected feeder roads in the Project area. The roads to be improved
(listed in Annex 1 Table T-9 and shown in Map IBRD-14386) were selected by
GOT following a survey of over 400 kms of road in the Project area by consul-
tants in 1978. Criteria for inclusion in the program included the present
road condition, the volume of pyrethrum traffic carried and the economic rate
of return on each road. The roads included are roughly equally divided
between Iringa and Mbeya Regions.
5.24      The roads would be improved so as to allow 7-ton truck traffic to
pass in all weathers. The roads would have a 5.5 m maximum formation width.
As far as possible, gradients would be limited to 14% with no restriction on
their length; the radii of horizontal curves in mountainous areas are expected
to be at least 30 m. Existing bridges would be repaired and new bridges would
consist of simple masonry or gabion abutments with sawn and treated timber
decks. Drainage would be improved with adequate masonry or cement concrete
culverts and side ditches with lead-offs. Generally, roads would have an
eartlh surface except in water-logged areas and along sections with excessive
gradients where they would be gravelled. Roads completed under the Project
would be maintained as part of Project activities until the improvement
program was finished. The minimum acceptable maintenance standards would be
set to insure that the roads are passable in all weather. This would entail
regular repairs to avoid large pot holing and corrugations, grading to retain
cambers and shape across road width, keeping side ditches, culverts and
lead--offs clear, repair of culverts and bridges and protection of slopes.



- 27 -
5.25      The road improvement program would be carried out, over a three-
year period, by force account by a Road Improvement and Maintenance Unit
(RIMU). It was agreed during negotiations that the RIMU would be estab-
lished not later than March 31st, 1981 under the control of the Director of
Roads and Aerodromes in MOW. Machinery-intensive techniques would be used.
Labor intensive methods would not be suitable in this case because of the
shortage of labor in the mountain areas where roads would be constructed and
the high cost of importing labor. The relatively high wages for unskilled
labor (US$2 per day) and the dearth of managerial skills would also make the
use of labor intensive methods uneconomical in this case. Until the establish-
ment of the RIMU, MOW would be responsible for procurement and staff recruit-
ment. To allow adequate time for procurement of equipment and for construction
of housing, office and workshop accommodation, (which would be handled by MOW,
which has adequate expertise in these respects), RIMU management staff would
not be recruited until the third quarter of PY1, and road improvement would
not start until PY2. The Project would finance the procurement of equipment
and spare parts for the RDMU (a full list of equipment is given in Table T-10
of Annex 1). A Roads Engineer, a Construction Supervisor and a Mechanical
Supervisor, would be internationally-recruited to manage the operations of
the RIMU. The costs of employing these internationally-recruited staff are
estimated at US$70,000 per annum, including salary, international travel and
benefits. About 135 local staff and labor (a list is at Table T-11 of Annex
1), would also be employed by RIMU.
5.26      The RIMU would be based in Mbeya, which is the major town most
convenient to its operations. The Project would finance the construction
of three houses for senior RIMU personnel, and a small office and workshop
in Mbeya. It was agreed at negotiations that GOT would give MOW assistance as
necessary to acquire sites for these facilities. The Project would finance
the costs of operation of the RIMU, including the costs of salaries, wages and
materials such as cement, steel, lumber, tires, fuel, oil and lubricants.
5.27      Several alternative means of carrying out the proposed road improve-
ment and maintenance component were explored during Project preparation and
appraisal. There are few private road contractors in Tanzania; they are
based in Dar-es-Salaam and do not have the capacity to extend their operations
to carry out the proposed program. Because of the scattered character of the
road works proposed, and their location in mountainous areas of difficult
access, international contractors are unlikely to be interested. Neither TPB
nor Kilimo has the management capacity or expertise to be able to carry out
the program. The regional works divisions in Mbeya and Iringa, although
receiving support from external agencies (para. 4.06) are likely during the
next few years to remain unable to carry out such a program in addition to
their broader regional responsibilities. However, by the end of PY4, when
the road improvement program would be completed, it is anticipated that the
Regional roads divisions would, as a result of the external assistance they
had received, be in a position to continue routine maintenance of the roads
improved under the Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that, not later than March 31, 1984, GOT would review the capacity of the
Regional works divisions in Mbeya and Iringa to take over from RDMU main-
tenance of the roads improved under the Project, and would furnish to IDA



- 28 -
proposals regarding the responsibility for continued maintenance of the
roads improved under the Project, and that RDMU equipment would, after
completion of the Project's road component, be used for the maintenance of
roads improved under the Project or for the development and maintenance of
other feeder roads in Mbeya and Iringa Regions. Agreement was also reached
during negotiations that, throughout the Project period, adequate funds would
be budgeted by GOT for the maintenance of all main and local main roads used
for the transportation of pyrethrum in the Project area, and that adequate
funds would be budgeted for the maintenance after the construction period of
roacts improved under the Project.
Implementation Schedule
5.28      A Chart showing the anticipated rates of implementation of the
various Project components is at Chart C-2, Annex 1.
C. Project Costs
5.29      The total costs of the Project would be Tsh 109.4 million (US$13.2
million), of which US$7.8 million (60 percent) represents the foreign exchange
costs. These total costs include about Tsh 4.0 million (US$0.5 million) of
taxes and duties, comprised mainly of import duties on trucks and motorcycles
purchased by TPB. The phasing of Project costs is summarized in Annex 1,
Table T-12, and costs for each of the components are given in more detail in
Annex 1, Table T-13 through T-16. Project costs are summarized below:



- 29 -
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Exch %  Cost %
------ Tsh '000 -------   ------ US$ '000 -------
Smailholder Production
Improved Planting
Material               3,435    2,285    5,720        414       275      689       40        7
Unimproved Planting
Material               2,466       340    2,806       297        41      338       12        4
Pest Control                 113      337       450        14       41       55       75        1
Incremental TPB Field
Staff                  1,108       ---    1,108       133       ---      133      ---        1
Drying Study and
Improvements             880    1,870    2,750        106       225      331       68        3
Flower Stores             1,856    1,076    2,932        224       130      354       37        4
Vehicles                    674    3,281    3.,955        81       395      476       83        5
Sub-total             10,532    9,189   19,721   1,269    1,107   2,376            47       25
Research Program
Civil works               1,591    1,076    2,667        192       130      322       40        3
Equipment                     24      467       491         3       56       59       95        1
Vehicles                     26       219       245         3       26       29       90        -
Staff                     1,030    2,465    3,495        124       297      421       71        4
Operations                1,570        740    2,310      189        89      278       32        3
Training & consultants    622    3,228    3,850           75       389      464       84        5
Sub-total              4,893    8,195   13,088        590       987   1,577        63       16
Strengthening of TPB
Incremental Staff         2,555    7,845   10,400        308       945   1,253        75       13
Technical Assistance        350          -      350       42         -       42        -        -
Training                    380       500       880       46        60      106       57        1
Offices and housing       8,108    5,210   13,318        977       628   1,605        39       17
Vehicles                      31      589       620        4        71       75       95        1
Sub-total             11,424   14,144   25,568   1,376    1,704   3,080            55       32
Roads Component
Establishment of RIMU   1,166    6,456    7,622           140      778      918       88       10
Operations of RIMU        3,934    9,354   13.288        474    1,127   1,601         70       18
Sub-total              5,100   15,810   20,910        614    1,905   2,519         76       27
Total Base Cost            31,947   47,338   79,287   3,849    5.703   9,552            60      100
Physical Contingencies    3,973    5,804    9,777          479       699   1,178        59       12
Price Contingencies         8,283   12,013   20,296        998    1,447   2,445         59       26
Total Project Cost         44,204   65,155  109,360   5,326    7.849  13,175            60      138
Total Project Cost         40205   65,155  105,360         846    7,849  12695          62      133
(net of taxes and
duties)



- 30 -
Project costs have been estimated on the basis of prices prevailing in January
1980. Physical contingencies have been included at a rate of 20 percent on
the costs of civil works and equipment for the research component and at a
rate of 10 percent on all other costs except the lump sum for improved
dryers. Price contingencies on imported vehicles and equipment and on inter-
nationally-recruited staff and consultants have been included at annual rates
of 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% thereafter. For local equipment
and staff costs, price contingencies have been included at annual rates
of 11% in 1980, 10% in 1981 and 9% thereafter. For civil works, higher
price contingencies have been included at annual rates of 12% in 1980, 11% in
1981 and 1982 and 10% thereafter, reflecting the pressure on construction
industry capacity. Price contingencies total 26% of Project base line costs.
D. Financing
5.30      The financing of Project costs, net of taxes and duties, would be
as follows:
US$ Million              %
IDA                            10.0                  79
Government of Tanzania          2.7                  21
12.7                 100
The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would be on standard terms to the
Government of Tanzania and would cover all the foreign exchange costs of the
Project (US$7.8 million) and 44 percent of local costs, or about 79 percent
of total Project costs. GOT would finance the remaining US$2.7 million,.net
of taxes and duties.
5.31      Credit funds and GOT contributions for the smallholder production
program (Tsh 27.2 million, including contingencies) would be channelled
by GOT to TPB in the form of equity. Credit funds and GOT contributions for
the pyrethrum research program (Tsh 18.4 million, including contingencies)
would be channelled to UAC on a grant basis, through the Kilimo development
budget. Credit funds and GOT contributions for the road component (Tsh 27.8
million, including contingencies) would be channelled to the RIMU on a grant
basis through the development budget of the MOW. The remainder of credit
funds and GOT contributions for the strengthening of TPB's operational capa-
city (Tsh 36.0 million including contingencies) would be on-lent by GOT to TPB
for a period of 10 years, including 5 years of grace, at an annual interest
rate of 10%, which is currently the interest rate charged by GOT to parastatal
borrowers. In the case of TPB, the division of funds between equity and loan
is in accordance with GOT's policy that 'non-commercial' parastatal invest-
ments be financed by grants or equity, while 'commercial' investments (which



- 31 -
are expected to generate a financial return to the parastatal), should be
financed by loans. The terms and conditions of this financing plan were
agreed at negotiations. Completion, in a form satisfactory to IDA, of an
on-lending agreement between GOT and TPB would be a coaditioni of credit
effectiveness.
5.32      To ensure that the housing and offices for TPB (which are required
for effective Project implementation) and the study of TPB's transport systems
(completion of which is a condition of disbursement of funds for vehicle pur-
chase) are completed as expeditiously as possible, IDA has urged TPB to enter
into contracts, prior to Board Presentation, for the design of the houses and
offices and the preparation of tender documents, and for the conduct by con-
sultants of the study. It is recommended that part of the costs of these
contracts incurred after February 15, 1980, be financed retro-actively out of
the proposed credit. The maximum sums likely to be involved would be:
Total         Retro-active
Contracts        Financing
----------- us$-    
(a) Design of civil works,
preparation of documents         115,000            97,500
(b)  Transport management study        50,000            42,500
165,000          140,000
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management
6.01      The Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board (TPB) would have responsibility
for implementation of the smallholder production component of the Project.
The capacity of TPB to carry out this responsibility would be augmented by the
institution-building component of the Project. Overall day-to-day responsi-
bility for planning and management of the smallholder component would rest
with the Planning and Production Manager of TPB, who reports directly to the
Executive Officer of TPB. He would be assisted in the detailed planning of
production activities by the internationally-recruited Planning and Production
Agronomist who would be financed under the Project (para. 5.18). The Planning
and Production Manager would also be assisted during Project implementation
by a Planning Officer and a Statistician/Evaluation Officer (both locally-
recruited graduates) financed under the Project (para. 5.18). Responsibility
for field implementation of production activities would rest with TPB's
Regional Managers in Iringa and Mbeya Regions, who would be assisted in
carrying out their responsibilities by the internationally-recruited Field
Agronomist who would be financed under the Project (para. 5.18). The Finance
Department, which would have responsibility for the maintenance of Project-
related TPB accounts (para. 6.08) in addition to its normal accounting func-
tions, would be strengthened under the Project by the provision of an inter-
nationally-recruited Financial Controller and of a Cost Accountant and an



- 32 -
Internal Auditor, both of whom would be locally-recruited (para. 5.18). TPB's
Administration Department, which would be responsible for procurement, for the
organization of staff training and for the management of the transport fleet
financed under the Project, would be strengthened by the provision under the
Project of a Procurement Officer and of a Transport Officer (pa-a. 5.18) who
would be based at the Mafinga factory, where there are workshop facilities.
The mnarketing of the incremental pyrethrum products produced as a result of
the Project would be handled by the Marketing Department, which is adequately
staffed to handle its responsibilities. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that TPB would carry out the Project according to detailed annual
work programs,which would be sent to IDA for review. The first such program,
that relating to FY81, would be sent for IDA review not later than May 31st
1980. Thereafter, work programs would be sent for IDA review not later than
March 31st preceding the GOT fiscal year to which they apply.
6.02      The pyrethrum research component would be implemented by the Uyole
Agricultural Center (UAC). Overall responsibility would rest with UAC's
Chief Scientific Officer, but day-to-day responsibility for component imple-
mentation would rest with the internationally-recruited Research Officer
finanaced under the Project, who would be a staff member of the Department of
Plant Breeding. UAC would liaise closely with TPB's agronomists in carrying
out ihe research program, and TPB staff would assist UAC staff in the selec-
tion of promising plant material as required from farmers' fields. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the research component would be carried
out in accordance with detailed annual work programs. The first of these pro-
grams, that relating to FY81, would be sent to IDA for review not later than
May 31, 1980. Thereafter, these work programs would be sent for IDA review
not later than March 31st preceding the GOT fiscal year to which they apply.
6.03      In view of the lack of a viable alternative method (para 5.27), the
roads component of the Project would be undertaken by the Roads Improvement
and Maintenance Unit (RIMU) which would be established under the Project and
which would work under the administrative and technical supervision of the
Direc:tor of Roads and Aerodromes of MOW. The MOW would be responsible for
procurement of the equipment required for the RI4U, for the selection and
supervision of contractors for the construction of the houses, office and
workshop required for RIMU and for the recruitment of the three internationally-
recruited RIMU senior staff (Roads Engineer, Construction Supervision and
MechEnical Supervisor). MOW would also assist the RIMU in recruitment of the
local staff required for its operations. The RIMU would operate according to
annual work programs which would be drawn up by the Roads Engineer of RDIU
after consultation with the Regional Development Directors of Mbeya and Iringa
Regions. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the first such work
program (that relating to FY82) would be sent to IDA for review not later than
May 31, 1981.  Therafter, such work programs would be sent for IDA review not
later than March 31st preceding the GOT fiscal year to which they apply.
B. Staffing
6.04      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IDA would be con-
sulted, prior to appointment, on the suitability, in terms of qualifications



- 33 -
and experience, of candidates for the posts of Financial Controller, Planning
and Production Agronomist, Field Agronomist, Research Officer, Roads Engineer,
Construction Supervisor and Mechanical Supervisor, and that IDA would be
consulted prior to the appointment of successor staff to these positions. It
was agreed at negotiations that internationally-recruited staff financed
under the Project would be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. It was further agreed during negotiations that appointment of a
Financial Controller after consultation with IDA on qualifications and
experience, would be a condition of credit effectiveness; that the Research
Officer, Field Agronomist and Planning and Production Agronomist would be
appointed no later than September 30, 1980; and that the Road Engineer, the
Mechanical Superintendent and the Construction Supervisor would be appointed
no later than March 31, 1981. Assurances were obtained that the TPB posts of
Planning and Production Manager, Iringa Regional Manager and Mbeya Regional
Manager would continue, throughout the Project period, to be filled by suit-
ably qualified staff. A total of 30 man years of internationally recruited
long-term technical assistance, and 20 man-months of short-term consultancy
services, would be financed under the Project.
C. Procurement
6.05      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with BANK/IDA
guidelines. Specifically:
(a) orders for new vehicles and spare parts (US$0.9 million) 1/ and
road equipment and spare parts (US$0.5 million) would be bulked
as far as practicable, and orders of US$100,000 and above would
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) from
suppliers who maintain (or agree to maintain) in Tanzania an
adequate after-sales service and inventory of spare parts;
(b)  orders for vehicles and roads equipment below US$100,000 would
be procured in accordance with existing local procedures which
are satisfactory; however, these orders would not exceed
US$300,000 in aggregate;
(c) orders for tools (USO.1 million), sprayers (US$0.1 million),
insecticides, fertilizers and nematocides (US$0.3 million)
and tires, fuel, oils and materials and supplies for road
construction (US$0.6 million) would be bulked to the maximum
extent possible, and would.be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with existing procedures
that are satisfactory.  ICB would not be appropriate in view of
the variety of items involved, and small size and frequency
of order necessary;
(d) contracts for the construction of buying centers/stores
(US$0.4 million), offices and workshops (US$0.6 million),
1/   All figures quoted in this paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 34 -
laboratory facilities (US$0.1 million) and staff housing
(US$1.1 million) would be too small and scattered to attract
international interest. Procurement would therefore be by
contracts awarded following locally-advertised bidding,
altki)ugh foreign firms would be entitled to compete;
(e) the selection and employment of consultants to provide
short-term technical assistance to TPB (US$0.1 million)
and UAC (US$0.1 million) would be in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines.
Draf-t tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in excess of
US$]L00,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval before bid invitations are
issued, and bid analysis and recommendations for award would be submitted to
IDA for comment before contracts would be awarded. In the evaluation of bids
for (a) above, bonafide domestic manufacturers would be accorded a preference
of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined
above would be followed.
D. Disbursement
6.06      Disbursement of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 95% of the costs of construction of offices, houses, laboratory
facilities, buying centers/stores and workshop (US$2.1
million) and 100% of the cost of driers (US$0.25 million);
(b) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of vehicles, equip-
ment and spare parts, and 85% of local costs when these are
purchased locally for TPB (US$0.55 million) and for UAC and
RIMU (US$0.95 million);
(c) 100% of the foreign exchange costs and 85% of the local cost
of internationally-recruited personnel, consultants and
training costs (US$3.0 million);
(d) 85% of the salaries of incremental local staff employed
by TPB and UAC (US$0.2 million);
(e) 85% of the local costs of operation (other than internationally-
recruited staff costs) of the RIMU (US$0.7 million);
(f) an unallocated amount of US$2.25 million, representing contin-
gincies on the above categories, and transferable to them as
required.
6.07      All disbursements under (a), (b) and (c) would be against contracts,
and hence fully documented.  Disbursements against (d) would be on the basis



- 35 -
of certificates of expenditure signed by the Executive Officer of TPB or the
Chief Scientific Officer of UAC, as appropriate. Disbursements against (e)
would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure signed by the Roads
Engineer and the Director of Roads and Aerodromes in the MOW. For disburse-
ments under both (d) and (e), supporting documents would be retained tor
inspection by supervision missions. Funds remaining in the Credit at Project
completion would be cancelled, unless otherwise agreed by IDA. A schedule
showing the estimated pattern of disbursements under the Project is at
Annex 1, Table T-17.
E. Accounts and Audit
6.08      Separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project would
be kept by TPB, UAC and the RIMU. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that these accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA, and that such audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of each financial year. The auditors would specifically
review and comment on the procedures used for control of disbursement against
statements of expenditure. TPB's accounts are currently in arrears (para.
3.06), but would be expected to be brought up to date and kept up-to-date as a
result of the employment under the Project of incremental financial staff for
TPB (para. 5.18). It was agreed during negotiations that, by August 31, 1981,
TPB would have updated its accounts and designed and begun the implementation
of improved financial systems. The accounts of the UAC are currently up-to-
date.
F. Monitoring and Reporting
6.09      The progress of Project implementation would be monitored closely
by the Planning and Production Agronomist in TPB, who would submit detailed
quarterly reports of physical implementation and the use of funds to the
Planning and Production Manager and the Executive Officer of TPB, the Director
of Roads and Aerodromes (MOW), the Managing Director of UAC and the Principal
Secretary of Kilimo, and to IDA. Input on the progress of the research and
roads components would be made available to TPB by the Research Officer and
the Roads Engineer, respectively. Particular attention would be paid in these
reports to:
(a) the progress of the smallholder production component, in terms
of bulking centers and nurseries established, planting material
distributed, utilization of knapsack sprayers, field service
staffing, construction of buying centers/stores, drying
improvements and procurement of vehicles;
(b) the progress of the research component, in terms of construction
of facilities, procurement of equipment, staffing, training and
the outcome of research operations;



- 36 -
(c) the progress in recruiting incremental TPB staff, in training,
in construction of housing and offices and in carrying out
consultant studies;
(d) progress in the procurement and delivery of roads equipment,
the construction of RIMU housing, office and workshop, the
staffing of RIMU, and RIMU progress in road improvement and
maintenance;
(e) to put the above into context, data on dried flower production,
estimated yields, pyrethrin content and sales of extract and
marc.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these reporting procedures
would be followed.
G. Evaluation
6.10      During the course of Project implementation, the Statistician/
Evaluation Officer financed under the Project would, with the cooperation of
TPB field staff, carry out field studies and data analyses to evaluate the
effects of Project investments. He would carry out baseline and ad hoc
surveys in areas in which improved planting material had been distributed, to
determine the effects of this on flower yields. He would, by analysis of the
data TPB collects on pyrethrin content of flowers marketed by each licencee,
assess the effect of Project investments in raising pyrethrin content. He
would carry out sample field surveys to estimate the area under pyrethrum
cultivation, and to monitor changing cropping patterns in the various zones.
TPB would be able to obtain technical assistance in the design of the studies
and analyses from the recently established Project Preparation and Monitoring
Bureau in Kilimo. The findings of these studies and analyses would be incor-
porated into the quarterly progress reports.
6.11      Within six months of the completion of disbursements, TPB would
prepare and submit to IDA a Project Completion Report, analyzing the imple-
mentation of the Project and its impact in relation to its objectives.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained to this effect.
VII. PYRETHRUM MARKETS AND PRICE PROSPECTS
A. Uses of Pyrethrum
7.01      The specific insecticidal properties of pyrethrum (para. 2.04),
dictate its end-uses. Its sensitivity to sunlight, for example, makes
pyrethrum unsuitable for agricultural field use, except where the period
before harvest is short (one day or less) or for post-harvest application
during transportation and storage. Because of its low mammalian toxicity,



- 37 -
pyrethrum is used chiefly in food-related industries, homes, animal shelters
and public buildings, usually as a liquid spray or in oil- or water-based
aerosols. It is also used in the form of creams and ointments, mosquito
coils and sticks, and powders and dusts (both dry and wettable). In many
of these formulations (particularly aerosols), pyrethrum is used with propel-
lants, perfumes, etc, so that the value of pyrethrum used in the finished
product may be as little as 10%. Pyrethrum is almost always used, for reasons
of economy, in conjunction with a 'synergist,' 1/ usually piperonyl butoxide.
7.02      The safety and efficiency of natural pyrethrins has led to the
development of synthetic chemical compounds (pyrethroids) with similar
structures and properties. The first pyrethroid, "allethrin," was developed
in the USA in 1949, and several hundred other pyrethroids were formulated in
the 1950's and 1960's. These pyrethroids, which are now termed 'first-
generation pyrethroids,' share with pyrethrins the property of being unstable
to light. Only half-a-dozen are of commercial importance. Since 1970, a
second generation of pyrethroids has been developed. These are stable to
light, and so have greater agricultural potential than pyrethrins. However,
these compounds may yield stable breakdown products, and thus have not been
certified for wide use in households or food-processing facilities.
7.03      Although pyrethroids (particularly first-generation) closely
resemble pyrethrins in chemical structure, no single pyrethroid can match
natural pyrethrins in terms of knock-down, kill, flushing-out effect or broad
activity spectrum. The commercially-available pyrethroids are manufactured
by five companies: two in the USA and one each in Japan, the U.K. and France.
The degree of substitution of pyrethroids for pyrethrins varies between
end-uses and between countries. Their substitution for pyrethrins is most
marked in the manufacture of mosquito coils, which are used extensively in
Japan and developing countries, where allethrin is mainly used, since it is
cheaper than pyrethrins (though also less effective).
B. World Production and Consumption
Production
7.04      The world's five leading pyrethrum producers (Kenya, Tanzania,
Ecuador, Rwanda and Japan) account for about 97% of total world production,
of which Kenya and Tanzania together contribute about 90%. Over the period
1955/56 - 1976/77, world production increased at a rate of 4.7% per annum.
This growth, however, was marked by wide cyclical variations. Details of
world production of dried pyrethrum flowers in recent years are tabulated
below:
1/   An insecticidal synergist is a compound which while having little or no
insecticidal properties of its own, when combined with an insecticide
significantly increase the toxicity of that insecticide, and may also
increase the speed of actioni.



- 38 -
World Dried Flower Production
Year          World Production       of which:         Kenya         Tanzania
--  - - -  - -- - - - - - tons--   - - - -  - - - - - - - -
1970/71             15,178                             9,748           2,666
1971/72             21,070                            14,414           4,276
1972/73             17,079                            10,698          4,016
1973/74             19,504                            13,722           3,282
1974/75             22,500                            15,018           4,544
1975/76             20,399                            14,292           3,947
1976/77             16,906                            11,434           3,312
1977/78             13,000 (est)                       8,100           2,870
7.05      Production in 1974/75 was at an all time high.  Since then, produc-
tion has declined markedly, both as a result of adverse climatic conditions
and, more importantly, as a result of increased competition for land and
labor from food crops, whose prices in Kenya and Tanzania over the relevant
period have been high. In recent months, both Kenya and Tanzania have raised
the producer prices to pyrethrum growers, which is expected to lead to in-
creased production.
Consumption
7.06      Virtually all of the output of pyrethrum is exported from, and
conisumed outside of, the producing countries. Since pyrethrum cannot be
stored for long without deterioration, no stocks are held by either producers
or manufacturers, and consumption in any year is thus determined by production
in the previous year. Thus, the strong fluctuations in supply which have
occurred in the past have led to corresponding fluctuations in world trade and
in consumption. Although a large number of countries import pyrethrum
products, the main users are the USA (about 40%), the UK (about 20%) and other
Western European countries (20%). Demand appears to be growing fastest in
Japan, Brazil, Mexico, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands and
Finland.
7.07      Total world production and use of pyrethroids is not known with
certainty, but was estimated at 350-400 tons in 1975, when the production and
consumption of pyrethrins was 300 tons (both figures on a 100% active
ingredient basis for comparability). More recent data is not available, but
agricultural use of second-generation pyrethroids has expanded greatly since
19-75.
C. Recent Price Trends
7.08      Below are tabulated, for the years 1962-1979, the export prices
of 25% crude extract from Tanzania, in both current dollars and constant
1978 dollars. Also given are price indices (1978=100) for both current
and constant prices:



- 39 -
Tanzania Export Unit Value
Current Prices          Constant Prices 1/
US$         Index        US$           Index
per kg.   (1978=100)    per kg.       (1978=100)
1962       21.0          63.7        63.8           193.3
1963       20.8          63.2        62.9           190.7
1964       20.5          62.3        61.1           185.1
1965       20.5          62.1        59.0           178.7
1966       20.3          61.6        58.0           175.7
1967       20.5          62.3        57.9           175.3
1968       19.0          57.6        57.0          172.6
1969       16.9          51.1        50.1          151.9
1970        18.0         54.4        47.9           145.2
1971       17.6          53.5        43.6          132.0
1972       18.5          56.1        41.3           125.0
1973       16.9          51.4        31.4           95.1
1974       18.7          56.8        27.7           83.9
1975       19.1          58.1        24.6            74.5
1976       20.0          60.8        25.3           76.6
1977       22.4          68.1        25.9            78.3
1978  I    28.7          87.1        29.7            89.9
II    37.2         112.9        36.4          110.4
1978 Av.   32.9         100.0        33.0          100
1979  I    37.2         112.9        34.9          105.9
II    46.1         140.0        41.9          126.9
1979 Av.   41.6          126.5       38.4           116.3
1/   Deflated by the Bank's Index of International Inflation (1978=100), EPDIT,
February 1979.
7.09      These data clearly indicate that the period 1962-1979 falls into two
distinct sub-periods. From 1962-1975, nominal prices for pyrethrum declined
and when prices are adjusted to allow for inflation, this trend is greatly
accentuated. Thus the price of pyrethrum extract declined in real terms by
60% over this period. This steady decline reflects the cautious pricing
policy adopted by Kenya (which, as the dominant producer, is the price leader)
in the face of intensifying competition from pyrethroids and a slight excess
of production over demand that emerged around 1967/68.
7.10      From 1975 onwards, however, the real price of pyrethrum extract
has risen by over 50%, at an average annual rate of about 11%. This turn-
around in prices is attributable to three main causes. Firstly, there has
been increasing concern over the adverse environmental effects of other
insecticides, particularly in the USA, where it is now mandatory for all
pesticides to undergo a stringent series of tests at the manufacturers'
expense. Secondly, there has been a sharp rise in the costs of production
of pyrethroids, which are petro-chemical based compounds; raw materials
account for 80% of production costs. Thirdly, the decline in world production
has resulted in supply shortages and has thus exerted upward pressure on
prices.



- 40 -
D. Market Outlook and Price Prospects
Factors Affecting Demand
7.11      Availability.  Supplies of pyrethrum are subject to climatic factors
and to changes in crop pricing policy in producing countries. Pyrethroids,
on the other hand, are in stable supply. The instability of pyrethrum sup-
plies force insecticide manufacturers to substitute pyrethroids in periods of
short pyrethrin supply; these substitutions are not always reversed when
pyrethrum supplies increase.
7.12      Cost effectiveness.  A systematic comparison of the relative prices
of pyrethrin and pyrethroids is not possible, since prices of the pyrethroids
are not published and vary markedly from country to country as a result of
complex licensing and patenting practices.  Furthermore, the only economically
valid way of comparing different insecticides is by comparing cost-effective-
ness in the same end use, and even this is complicated by the fact that there
are several criteria (knock-down, kill, repellency, etc) against which effi-
ciency can be measured. The general consensus from industry sources is that,
despite the marked increase in pyrethrum extract prices over the past few
years, pyrethrum remains competitive with pyrethroids. However, it is felt
that pyrethrum extract prices cannot, in real terms, rise much above current
levels, and certainly cannot approach the levels of the early 1960's. Indeed,
to the extent to which present prices reflect a 'scarcity premium,' real
prices might decline somewhat once pyrethrum supplies improve.
7.13      Population and Income Growth.  The demand for non-agricultural
insecticides is dependent on the number of potential users and their levels
of income and standard of living. In developed countries, the rate of
population growth is low, and high standards of sanitary and housing condi-
tions reduce the need for insecticides. However, high and rising disposable
personal incomes have resulted in a rise in the demand for convenience
products such as aerosols.  In developing countries, on the other hand,
consumption of insecticides has remained at a relatively low level because
of low disposable incomes.  However, in the high-income developing country
markets (such as Brazil and Argentina), consumption of aerosols is growing
rapidly.
7.14      Public Control of Insecticide Usage.  As a result of environmental
concerns, many governments now exercise strict regulatory powers over the use
of insecticides, and this has led to greater demand for pyrethrum, with its
long record of safe use. For a time, the most widely used synergist, piper-
onyl butoxide (para. 7.01), was suspected of being a carcinogen, but latest
information is that these fears have been dispelled. Pyrethrum has benefitted
from tight regulation of insecticide use and will continue to do so.
Registration of a new insecticide in the U.S. can take up to ten years and
cost US$15 million, which makes it unlikely that any new insecticides will be
developed purely for the non-agricultural market.  It is possible that some
insecticides designed primarily for agricultural use (e.g. permethrin) will
also be registered for non-agricultural use, although even in these cases,
registration will take two to four years and cost up to US$4.0 million.



- 41 -
7.15      Industry sources differ in their assessment of overall world future
demand for pyrethrum, which was estimated at about 22,000 tons of dried
flowers in 1975/76. One large US formulator estimates, on the basis of a
survey of major users, that US demand will grow by 8% per annum in the period
up to 1982. Other industry sources are less optimistic than this, but the
majority view is that, even on conservative assumptions, world demand should
remain at least at its 1976 level of 22,000 tons of flowers. It appears
unlikely that world production will approach this level for at least five
years. Kenya has recently begun a major effort to raise production, but it
appears unlikely that production in that country will exceed 14,000 or 15,000
tons even in five years time. The long-term production projections for
Tanzania in the 'with-Project situation' (Table T-21) thus are consistent with
Tanzania's retaining its historic share (20-25%) of a world market stabilized
at around the 20,000-22,000 ton per annum level.
Projected Prices
7.16      The export price projections tabulated below and used in the analy-
sis of this Project are based on the above considerations. The extract
prices refer to 25% crude extract, f.o.b. Dar-es-Salaam or Tanga. The marc
prices are for coarse marc f.o.b. Dar-es-Salaam or Tanga. All prices are in
constant US dollars at January 1980 prices.
Year                         Crude Extract                      Marc
(US$ per kg)                 (US$ per ton)
1980/81                         47.10                          196.00
1981/82                         47.10                          196.00
1982/83                         47.10                         196.00
1983/84                         47.10                         196.00
1984/85                         44.70                          186.20
1985/86                         42.50                         176.80
1986/87                         40.40                         168.00
1987/88                         38.30                         159.60
1988/89 onwards                 36.40                          151.60
7.17      The prices tabulated above reflect the likelihood of supply short-
ages continuing through 1983/84, and of real prices remaining at current
levels. For the years 1984/85 through 1988/89, real prices are expected
to decline by 5% per annum, as supply and demand come into balance. After
1988/89 prices are expected to stabilize in real terms, at the levels obtain-
ing in early 1978. These price projections are made with a lower degree of
confidence than would be the case for the majority of agricultural com-
modities, reflecting the scarcity of hard information on the costs of pro-
duction of pyrethroids. The sensitivity analysis of the economic rate of
return of the Project (para. 9.06) examines the consequences of major changes
in the assumptions made as to future world market prices.



- 42 -
VIII. YIELDS, FARMER RETURNS, PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Flower Yields and Pyrethrin Content
Dried Flower Yields
8.01      Under the standards of husbandry presently practiced in the Project
area, the improved planting material (clone 59/347, which is fully tested) to
be idistributed to farmers under the Project is expected to raise annual yields
of lried flowers per hectare from their 'without-project' levels of 125 kg in
the first year of planting and 290 kg each of the next two years, giving an
overall annual average of 235 kg (para. 2.22), to levels of 160 kg in the
first year of planting and 370 kg in each of the next two years, giving an
overall annual average of 300 kg over the three-year productive plant life.
These yield projections are considered conservative, (on well maintained farms
in rCanzania average yields from the close to be distributed are 570 kg. of
dried flowers per ha and research yields of over 1,000 kg/ha have been
obtained) and reflect the fact that the provision of extension services is not
expected to improve markedly during the period of IDA disbursement (para.
2.12). In 1974, average flower yields in the Project area were estimated at
270 kgs/ha. The unimproved planting material to be distributed under the
Project would produce the same yields as in the 'without-Project' situation,
i.e., an average of 235 kg/ha. Adoption by farmers of improved planting
material would raise overall average yields to 260 kg/ha by 1984/85, the last
year of Credit disbursements. An overall average yield of 300 kg/ha would be
reached by 1989/90.
Pyrethrin Content
8.02      The improved planting material to be distributed under the Project
is expected to raise pyrethrin content from the present level of 1.10% to
1.30%. In addition, the Project's road improvement component would reduce
marketing delays and loss of pyrethrin content. It is expected that road
improvements would result in 10% savings in pyrethrin content of flowers being
marketed over the improved roads. The weighted average pyrethrin content
would rise as a result from 1.30% to 1.34%. Again this is a conservative
asstumption; past pyrethrin content has reached this level, and the plant
material which would be distributed under the Project has produced pyrethrin
content of up to 1.76% under research conditions. The unimproved material
distributed under the Project would produce flowers with the same pyrethrin
content as at present - 1.10%.
B. Farmer Returns and Incomes
Comparative Crop Returns
8.02,     An analysis of returns per hectare and per man-day of labor, in
both the 'without-Project' and the 'with-Project' cases, is presented in
Annex 1, Table T-18, for pyrethrum and for maize, its main competitor. In the



- 43 -
'without-Project' case, on the basis of 1979/80 producer prices and present
yields and pyrethrin content, pyrethrum production provides a net return per
hectare of almost Tsh 1,400 per hectare, equivalent to Tsh 7.50 per man-day.
At 1980/81 prices the net return per hectare rises to almost Tsh 1,750,
equivalent to Tsh 9.48 per man-day. For maize grown using traditional prac-
tices (i.e local seed and no fertilizer), yields of 850 kg/ha are average in
the Project area, producing net returns per ha of Tsh 820 and returns per
man-day of Tsh 6.72. For maize grown using an improved production package
(improved seed, fertilizer and pesticide) yields of 2,000 kg/ha are average in
the Project area, producing returns of Tsh 1,750 per ha and Tsh 10.85 per
man-day. The extent to which the improved technical package for maize is
available to farmers in pyrethrum-growing areas is not precisely known, but
the required inputs (which are distributed under the IDA-supported National
Maize Project) do not appear to be available in more than 20% of pyrethrum-
growing villages. It should be noted that, although returns per man-day for
improved maize exceed man-day returns for pyrethrum, even at 1979/80 prices
inclusion of pyrethrum in a farm's cropping pattern raises overall farm income
by about 13%. This results from the fact that the labor input peaks for
pyrethrum and for maize occur at different times of the year (para. 8.08) so
that cultivation of both provides better utilization of farm labor, and hence
higher overall farm income.
8.04      In the 'with' Project situation, the improvements in dried flower
yield (para. 8.01) and pyrethrin content (para. 8.02) resulting from the
distribution under the Project of improved planting material would raise net
returns per ha, at 1980/81 prices, by 62% to over Tsh 2,800; returns per
man-day would rise by 44%, to Tsh 13.68 (Annex 1, Table T-18). Pyrethrum
production would thus have a substantial advantage in returns per man-day over
even improved maize production. Pyrethrum producer prices would need to fall
21% below 1980/81, or maize prices to rise 26% above 1980/81 levels, in order
to equalize returns per man-day from the two crops.
8.05      There are, in addition to maize and pyrethrum, other crops grown
by pyrethrum producers, although these are of lesser importance. Average
wheat yields of 540 kg/ha are obtained in the Project area; at 1980/81 prices,
this results in returns per ha of Tsh 890, and returns per man-day of Tsh 7.23.
Average sunflower yields are 400 kg/ha, resulting in returns per ha of Tsh 600
and returns per man-day of Tsh 6.32. Average pea yields are 430 kg/ha, pro-
ducing returns per ha of Tsh 390 and returns per man-day of Tsh 3.79. Average
yields of Irish potatoes are estimated at 5,000 kg/ha. At prevailing prices,
this results in net returns per ha of Tsh 2,400, and returns per man-day of
Tsh 24.00. For all these crops except Irish potatoes, pyrethrum provides
higher returns per man-day. In the case of Irish potatoes, despite the
attractive returns, production is constrained by the limited demand.
Effect on Incomes
8.06      The effects of the Project on farm incomes is shown in Annex 1,
Table T-19. For a typical pyrethrum-growing farm in the Project area, in
the 'without-Project' situation, total annual cash income is estimated at
about Tsh 2,550 (US$307). The value of subsistence is put at about Tsh 1,400



- 44 -
(US$170) giving total net farm income of almost Tsh 4,000 (US$480), equivalent
on a per capita basis (assuming six members per family) to Tsh 670 (US$80).
The introduction of improved planting material under the Project is expected
to raise cash incomes by about 17%, to almost Tsh 3,000 (US$360) per family.
Analysis of the farm labor profiles (para. 8.09 below) indicates that use of
improved planting material would not require a decrease in the output of other
crops, so that total net farm income (including subsistence) would increase by
about 11%, to about Tsh 4,400 (US$530), equivalent on a per capita basis to
US$38. Table T-19 also details the effects on farm incomes of the distri-
bution of unimproved planting material to families not currently growing
pyrethrum. In this case, the area of maize cultivated would fall from 1.18
ha to 1.00 ha. Despite this, cash income would rise by 18%, from Tsh 2,150
(US$260) to Tsh 2,550 (US$307), and total net farm income would increase by
about 11%, from about Tsh 3,600 (US$430) to Tsh 3,950 (US$475), equivalent
to Tsh 660 (US$80) on a per-capita basis.
Distribution of Direct Benefits
8.07      The direct benefits from the Project would accrue, at full develop-
ment,to about 37,000 smallholder pyrethrum producing families (containing
about 200,000 individuals). Average per capita incomes of these individuals
are estimated at Tsh 670 (US$80 equivalent). This average is below the
absolute rural poverty level in Tanzania, which is estimated at US$105. It
is estimated that about 85% of the Project's direct benefits would accrue
to :individuals currently living in absolute poverty.
C. Production of Dried Flowers, Extract and Marc
Effects on Production Patterns
8.08      Annex 1, Table T-20 details crop labor profiles for these crops
commonly grown on pyrethrum producing farms. It is readily apparent that
pyrethrum and maize, the major crops, are complementary, in the sense that
the peak labor requirements for these crops occur at widely differing times
of the year. The peak months for maize labor are July and August, the
months of land preparation and planting, and over 60% of the annual labor
input for maize cultivation occurs in the months July-December. For pyrethrum,
on the other hand, the peak labor input occurs in January, February and March,
the months of planting and peak flower production, and almost 70% of the total
annual labor input for pyrethrum cultivation takes place during the months of
January through June.
8.09      Table T-20 also shows the overall pattern of labor use and avail-
ability on a typical pyrethrum farm growing pyrethrum, maize, wheat, peas
and other crops (potatoes, sunflower, beans, cabbages). Family labor (about
45 man-days per month) is virtually fully utilized in August. Surplus
family is available at other months of the year. The extra labor requirements
associated with the use of improved planting material (a total of 23 man-day
per ha, for flower harvesting) occur at months outside this main labor peak,



- 45 -
and hence will not result in reduced production of other crops.  It is also
clear from this labor input analysis that there is no scope for increasing
the area of pyrethrum planted per family, without reducing the area planted
to other crops. For purposes of the analysis of this Project, therefore,
the assumption has been made that the introduction of improved planting
material would not affect cropping patterns, and that the average producer
would continue to cultivate 0.4 ha of pyrethrum.
Dried Flower, Extract and Marc Production
8.10      The overall impact of the Project on flower production and extract
and marc production is detailed in Annex 1, Tables T-21 and T-22 respectively,
and summarized below:
Incremental   Incremental   Incremental   Incremental /1  Incremental /2
Flower          Extract        Marc            Flower        Extract & Marc
Production    Production    Production            Value             Value
m tons----------------   -----------Tsh '000-----------
1980/81          69            --             --               467               --
1981/82         255             3.3           45.8           1,982             1,152
1982/83         494           12.5           174.9           3,677             4,719
1983/84         610           26.8           342.7           5,473             8,776
1984/85         731           37.1           423.9           7,029            13,781
1985/86       1,001           49.6           508.7          11,281            17,553
1986/87       1,253           69.1           698.0          15,320            23,179
1987/88       1,264           88.2           874.8          16,311            28,104
1988/89       1,202           94.6           883.4          16,954            28,584
1989/90       1,524           94.1           838.9          18,345            26,920
1990/91 and  1,451           110.4         1,064.7          17,676            26,897
onward
/1   Valued at producer prices, in constant 1980 prices.
/2   Valued at export prices, in constant 1980 prices.
8.11      Incremental flower production is expected to be worth Tsh 7 million
to growers by 1984/85 (the last year of Project investments) and by this date
incremental extract and marc production would be worth Tsh 13.8 million. By
1989/90, when all unimproved planting material would be phased out, incre-
mental flower production would be worth about Tsh 18 million to growers, and
the value of incremental extract and marc production would be Tsh 27 million.
D. Financial Effects on TPB
8.12       In addition to the Project's capital costs, Project implementation
would also give rise to incremental expenditures of a recurrent nature which
would be incurred by TPB during and after the five-year Idisbursement costs
of the proposed IDA credit. These recurrent costs, which would be met by TPB



- 46-
from its trading margin on pyrethrum in the same way as other recurrent costs,
include incremental flower collection and processing costs, incremental
vehicle operating and building maintenance costs, and the cost of operation of
bu:Lking centers and nurseries and of employing incremental staff after the end
of the IDA credit disbursement period. These costs have been taken into
account into the projection for the period 1980/81-1989/90 (FY81-FY90), of
TP}3's 'with-project' income statements (Table T-23), balance sheets (Table
T-24) and cash flow (Table T-25).  These projections are all in current
prlces, on the assumption that domestic inflation in Tanzania would occur at
annual rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent thereafter.
8.13      TPB's projected income statements show that TPB would make losses
of Tsh 6.4 million in FY81, Tsh 3.5 million in FY82 and Tsh 4.8 million in
FY83. Thereafter, TPB would make positive after-tax profits ranging from 5%
to 10% of net worth. TPB's projected balance sheets show that TPB's long term
debt/net worth ratio would reach a peak of 1.2:1 in FY82 and 83, and decline
thereafter as TPB repays all its long-term debt by FY90. TPB's overdraft
would be eliminated by FY90. TPB's liquidity position would remain tight
through FY83, but would improve thereafter. TPB's projected cash flow indicates
a consistently positive cash inflow throughout the period, with the exception
of FY86, when expenditures on vehicle replacement would be needed. Over the
period, TPB would have a cumulative net cash inflow of Tsh 21.5 million.
Overall, therefore, TPB's financial prospects would be satisfactory.
8.1]4     The financial rate of return on TPB investments (in constant 1980
prices) is estimated at 8%, and the pre-tax rate of return on equity at 9%.
(Details are shown in Table T-26). The financial rate of return, although
maarginal, is acceptable, and the rate of return on equity is satisfac:tory.
E. Government Cash Flow Implications
8.15      The effects, in current price terms, of the Project on GOT's cash
flow are detailed in Annex 1, Table T-27. Cash inflows to GOT would consist
of IDA Credit disbursements, TPB loan interest and repayments, incremental
export duties on extract exports and incremental income tax payments from
TPB. Cash outflows from GOT would provide for Project investments, service
charges and repayment of the IDA Credit, and for the continued maintenance
of feeder roads improved under the Project and the continuance of the
pyrethrum research program. Over the period of disbursement of the IDA
Credit, GOT would experience a cumulative cash outflow of Tsh 28.0 million.
However, by the end of PYIO, GOT would have received a cumulative positive
cash inflow of Tsh 10.9 million. The levels of expenditure on road main-
tenance and on pyrethrum research would be considerably higher than expendi-
ture in the past. Road maintenance costs are estimated, in 1980 prices, at
Tsh 1.1 million per annum, a substantial figure in comparison with the total
road maintenance budgets for Iringa and Mbeya Regions which totalled Tsh 10.6
million in 1978/79. However, the projected recurrent expenditures are



- 47 -
reasonable, and the fact that they would require increases in present levels
of recurrent allocations reflects the fact that road maintenance and research
expenditures in Tanzania are currently too low. As indicated in paras. 5.16
and 5.27, assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOT would provide
the required levels of recurrent funding for road maintenance and research
after completion of disbursement by IDA.
F. Foreign Exchange Implications
8.16      The foreign exchange impact of the Project would be favorable
(Annex 1, Table T-28). Over the period 1980/81 through 1985/86, the Project
would generate net foreign exchange earnings in current prices, of Tsh 55.1
million (US$6.6 million). There would be a net foreign exchange outflow
of Tsh 18.8 million (US$2.3 million) in 1980/81, as a result of disbursements
from the IDA credit lagging behind Project expenditures. Over the ten-year
period from 1980/81 through 1989/90, the Project would generate cumulative
net foreign earnings, in current terms, of Tsh 229.6 million (US$27.7 million).
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Benefits
9.01      The major quantifiable economic benefits of the Project would be
the foreign exchange earned by the export of the incremental production of
pyrethrum extract and marc expected to result from Project investments
(para. 8.10). In addition, the roads component, as well as contributing
to the incremental production of pyrethrins (para. 8.02) would also result
in road user cost savings, which would accrue to the users of the roads
improved and maintained under the Project. These road user cost benefits
have been quantified very conservatively; account has been taken only of road
user cost savings relating to pyrethrum, since data does not exist to enable
quantification of benefits accruing to other road users. However, these other
benefits are likely to be substantial, particularly in the Umalila zone, from
which significant quantities of maize are extracted.
9.02      Since incremental extract and marc production resulting from the
Project would be exported, it has been valued in constant 1980 prices at
projected export prices (para. 7.15), adjusted to reflect the divergence
of economic and financial exchange rates in the Tanzania economy by shadow-
pricing foreign exchange at a rate of US$1 = Tsh 12. Details of the deriva-
tion of economic prices for incremental marc and extract production are in
Annex 1, Table T-29. Foreign exchange has also been shadow-priced in the
calculation of road user cost benefits.



- 48 -
9.03      In addition to these quantifiable benefits, the Project is also
expected to result in some unquantifiable benefits. Investments in improved
flower drying techniques would be expected to result in savings of pyrethrins.
Investments in pyrethrum research would be expected to produce plants with
high yields of flowers having high pyrethrin content. Institution-building
investments within TPB would be expected to result in an organization that
would be more cost-conscious and better able to plan the future development
of the sub-sector.
Economic Costs
9.04      The economic costs that have been taken into account in the economic
analysis of the Project are the capital costs (including physical contingen-
cies) of the smallholder production program (except for the drying study and
drying investments, for which no benefits have been claimed), of the strength-
ening of TPB, and of the roads component. The costs of the research invest-
ments have been excluded, since no benefits have been included in the economic
analysis. A total of 81% of Project capital costs has been included
for the purposes of economic analysis. In addition to these capital costs,
incremental recurrent costs for farm labor input, flower collection and
processing, vehicle operations and building maintenance have been included.
The value of maize production foregone as a result of the distribution of un-
improved planting material (para. 8.06) has also been included; a yield of
2,000 kgs/ha has been assumed, and this has been valued at import parity
prices, less costs of marketing and production (including labor). Incremental
farm labor used under the Project has been shadow priced at 50% of
prevailing minimum agricultural wage rates. A recent study has indicated
that a shadow wage rate of 65% would be appropriate on a national
basis and this has been adjusted downwards to reflect the isolation of
the Project area and the greater-than-average lack of alternative income-
earning opportunities. In the calculation of all economic costs, foreign
exchange has been shadow-priced at a rate of US$1=Tsh 12.00. The Project is
not expected to have any undesirable environmental effects.
Economic Rate of Return
9.05      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the Project has
been calculated for the Project over a 20-'year period. In addition to
calculating the IERR for the Project as a whole, IERRs have been calculated
separately for the distribution of unimproved planting material, for the
smallholder production component (excluding the unimproved planting material
program and the drying studies and investments) and the TPB institution
building component taken together, and for the roads component (Table T-30).
The result of these analyses are:



49 -
Percent of Project
Component                  IERR           Capital Costs
Unimproved Planting Material             30%                4%
Smallholder Production Component
plus TPB strengthening /1              18%               54%
Roads Component                          11%               27%
Overall Project Investments              17%               81%
/1   Excluding the unimproved planting program and the drying study
and investments.
Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
9.06      Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to examine the effects of
changes in cost and benefit assumptions on the IERR of the Project. This gave
the following results:
Changes in Assumption                             Resulting IERR
Benefits reduced by 10%                                              14%
Benefits reduced by 20%                                               12%
Costs increased by 10%                                               15%
Costs increased by 20%                                               13%
Costs increased by 10% and benefits reduced by 10%                   12%
Costs increased by 20% and benefits reduced by 20%                    8%
Without Shadow Pricing'                                               11%
The IERR is thus relatively robust with respect to changes in cost and
benefit assumptions. In particular, the assumptions made with reference
to the future sales price of pyrethrum products could be lowered consider-
ably without rendering the IERR unacceptable. These prices would need to be
about 30% below projected values before the IERR would fall to 10%.
9.07      One major risk faced by the Project would be a future collapse of
pyrethrum export prices as a result of the development of new substitutes, or
the cheapening of existing substitutes. However, current research is aimed
mostly towards developing agricultural chemicals, which would not compete
with pyrethrum. Pyrethroid production costs are increasing as a result of
rising oil costs, and the cost of licensing new insecticides further protects
pyrethrum's market position. In any case, the IERR is robust with respect to
a shortening of the period over which the IERR is carried out. A fifteen-year
economic horizon results in an IERR of 15%. A further major risk of the
Project is that implementation would proceed at a slower pace than anticipated,
as a result of institutional deficiencies within TPB, MOW, RIMU or UAC. This
risk has been minimized by inclusion in the Project of substantial amounts of
technical assistance for all of these institutions. The IERR would be 12% if
benefits were lagged a year behind costs.



- 50 -
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) th- Borrower would continue to review and adjust pyrethrum
producer prices annually, taking into account export prices,
TPB operating costs and the producer prices of other crops
(para. 2.20);
(b) TPB would continue to produce and distribute improved planting
material to farmers after the completion of IDA disbursements
(para 5.06);
(c) Kilimo, TPB and the Iringa and Mbeya Regional authorities
would, not later than June 30, 1982, review and discuss with
IDA the adequacy of extension services for the Project Area
(including the number of extension staff and arrangements for
supervision of village level staff, and, if necessary, proposals
for improvement of such services) (para. 5.10);
(d) consultants employed under the Project would be recruited
in accordance with IDA guidelines and that their terms of
reference and conditions of employment would be acceptable
to IDA (paras. 5.11, 5.16 and 5.19);
(e) the TPB would establish a credit scheme to enable its staff
to purchase the motorcycles provided under the Project, and
would pay staff monthly operating allowances for these vehicles
(para 5.13);
(f) after the period of IDA disbursements, GOT would continue to
allocate adequate funds for the continuation of the pyrethrum
research program expanded under the Project (para. 5.16);
(g)  GOT would assist TPB, UAC and MOW as necessary to acquire the
sites for offices and housing to be constructed under the
Project (paras. 5.16, 5.21, and 5.26);
(h)  the RDMU would be established under the control of the
Director of Roads and Aerodomes in MOW not later than
March 31st, 1981 (para 5.25);
(i) not later than March 31, 1984, GOT would review the capacity
of the regional works divisions in Mbeya and Iringa to take
over maintenance of the roads improved under the Project, and
would furnish to IDA proposals regarding the responsibility for
continued maintenance of the roads improved under the Project and
that RIMU equipment would, after completion of the Project's road
component, be used for the maintenance of roads improved under the
Project or for the development and maintenance of other feeder
roads in Mbeya and Iringa Regions (para. 5.27);



- 51 -
(j) throughout the Project period adequate funds would be budgeted
by GOT for the maintenance of all main and local main roads
used for the transportation of pyrethrum in the Project area,
and that adequate funds would be budgeted after the con-
struction period for the maintenance of roads improved undet
the Project (para 5.27);
(k) TPB, UAC and RDMU would carry out the Project in accordance with
detailed annual work plans. In the case of TPB and UAC, the
first of these plans (relating to 1980/81) would be sent to IDA
for review not later than May 31, 1980. Subsequent plans would
be sent to IDA for review by March 31st preceding the GOT
fiscal year to which they relate. In the case of RIMU, the
first work plan (stating to 1981/82) would be sent to IDA for
review by 31st May 1980. Subsequent plans would be sent for
IDA review by March 31st preceding the GOT fiscal year to which
the work program relates (paras. 6.01, 6.02 and 6.03);
(1) IDA would be consulted, prior to appointment, on the suitability,
in terms of qualifications and experience, of candidates for the
posts of Financial Controller, Planning and Production Agronomist,
Field Agronomist, Research Officer, Roads Engineer, Construction
Supervisor and Mechanical Supervisor; that IDA would be consulted
prior to the appointment of successor staff to these positions;
that internationally-recruited staff would be employed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; that the Research
Officer, Field Agronomist and Planning and Production Agronomist
would be appointed no later than September 30, 1980 and the Road
Engineer, Mechanical Superintendent and Construction Supervisor no
later than March 31, 1981; and that the posts of Planning and
Production Manager, Iringa Regional Manager and Mbeya Regional
Manager would continue, during the Project period, to be filled by
suitably qualified staff (para. 6.04);
(m)  by August 31, 1981, TPB would have updated its accounts, and
designed and begun the implementation of improved financial
systems (6.08);
10.02     Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) completion of an on-lending agreement satisfactory
to IDA between GOT and TPB (para. 5.31);
(b) appointment of a Financial Controller, after consultation
with IDA on qualifications and experience (para. 6.04).
10.03     It would be a condition of disbursement against the funds for
investment in improved drying facilities that agreement had been reached
between IDA and TPB on the consultants' recommendations and their detailed
implementation (para. 5.11).



- 52 -
10.04     It would be a condition of disbursement against TPB purchase of
trucks, four-wheel-drive vehicles and motorcycles that a study by consultants
of TPB transport management had been completed, and agreement reached between
TIEB and IDA on implementation of its recommendations (para. 5.19).
10.05     The above assurances having been obtained, the proposed Project
would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$10.0 million on
standard terms to the Government of Tanzania.



-53-                               ANNEX 1
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Supporting Charts and Tables
I



- 54 -
TANZANIA                                                           ASaNEX  1
PYRETHRUM PROJECT                                                        Chart C-1
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF TANGANYIKA PYRETHRUM BOARD
MINISTRY OF AGRCICURTU
TF ES BOARD OF OIRECTORS
EOECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
AA    CIEF7 eECTTE 
I AIGFCOTOR    I PE ADINS TRTONNE   RUEIEI  MARKET NO                  FFANN      STATISTICA           COO          FINANCIALI
MANAGER CCOUNTANTAGER                                                    MARA         T I        A      COUANT       O UNTANT
1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITN                                                    PRODUCTION 1
COST            ACCOUNAT      ACONNS
AGA OFFICER  I_IA
d  FEREONNEL 1                                       LREGION L                            S                   REIOA
I 2   FROCAREMENTN|GER
I STORAGE OFFICER I      I                                                                              r
I ACCOUNANT E (M1EYA    AV3S                                                 2                    3            X
PRODUCTION &                                                                         IS|                       LCTION
E .NGINEEROFFICER                                                                                       O
ARSSHA  FROCOOT OPURCHASING
FROSUCTON                                       OFFICRSCIN-E.TE7 PRCUREMENT                                         STAFF
PODRP OFFICETIOOUSME
C~~~~~~ D  D
TRANAER          ANM                                           TANSGOR  T ANDNGE
STORAGE STAFFSCOAG-ATAF
Au-1S 2,9                                                                                                        W,ld B.,E  2 BOO9



- 55 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Chart C-2
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
'             -                         PROJECT PERIOD
1979/80                 1980181                  1981/82                  1982/83                 1983184                  1984/85
Q1   02    03   04   Q1    Q2    03    Q4   01    Q2   Q3   04     01               021Q3   Q4   Q1    02   Q3   Q4   Q          Q2     3   Q4
PROGRAM TO INCREASE AND
IMPROVE PYRETHRUM PRODUCTION
Product,on & D bstribution of
Improved C onay-Prapagated Material
-  1ulking Centers 
|  -  V Ilage Nurseries                                                4     ~      - 9        l         =                                  
Short Term Program for the Productiom
00d D bstrihotion of Uoimproved
Ploting Matrria
|   Seed Farms
- Seedngn Production
- Tools                                                   l      l     l      -                  
Pest and DOsese Control Prograr-
K-KnPsack Spraer-
|  -  Insectcicdes                                                                                     _                    _       |     |     | __         |                *_| 
Eicteosio Staff                                                                -     -Im
larpr-e-et of Dryin Te-hniquesI
Pilot D,y-~ ~ ~~~~~t 
- Pilot Orer                                                                                                                                 mE I  i..1            j
PFlower Stores/9uyimg Cen-trs                                      ..  I..s        |     |       sill                                           i       .
Vehicles, for Flowers and Extension Seroice               |ll 11* l
PROGRAM TO EXPAND PYRETHRUM RESEARCH
-  Civil Works                                                              ilu  h  E
-  F-reitureand Equipment                                                             P l
-  Vehioles                                                                      **E* I
-  Salecti-n and Multipli-ation Program 9                                         -      - .  .         .                                 -
-  Co-sultancy
STRENGTHENING TPB's ORGANIZATION
AND INFRASTRUCTURE
- hOffice Accommodation                                      .   .uhi 
F-  S itare                                                                            lose  io |  m    m    m  m    m|
-  Vehicles
|ROAD PROGRAM
-  Equipment Procu,rement
-Staff Houses
-  Road Improoement and Mainfeance                                                                            I m,             mum    -               m    m           m
- Technical Assistance                                                                 logo lI             mi                 mlmi              - Tu           Ir
Other Consulting S-
Plaoning/Proc-re-ent, Bidding and Cootract Award
Irplemensation. Build,ng
Augs.t 2, 1979
World Bank -- 20730



-56-                             ANNEX 1
Table T-1
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Production of Dried Pyrethrum Flowers (Tons) 1963/64 to 1978/79
Season                 Iringa Region         Mbeya Region    Arusha/Kilimanjaro          Total
1963-64                    1,364 (59%) 1/         282 (12%)            671 (29%)          2,317
1964-65                    1,484 (50%)            511 (17%)            989 (33%)          2,984
1965-66                    2,163 (52%)          1,063 (25%)            961 (23%)          4,160
1966-67                    3,236 (54%)         1,756 (29%)           1,023 (17%)          6,015
1967-68                    2,864 (55%)         1,338 (26%)           1,014 (19%)          5,216
1968-69                    2,747 (56%)         1,387 (29%)             708 (15%)          4,842
1969-710                   1,279 (53%)            764 (32%)            373 (15%)          2,416
1970-71                    1,484 (55%)            960 (35%)            287 (10%)          2,731
1971-72                    2,333 (55%)         1,505 (35%)             438 (10%)          4,276
1972-7:3                   2,364 (59%)         1,292 (32%)             360 (9%)           4,016
1973-74                    1,904 (58%)            951 (29%)            427 (13%)          3,282
1974-7.5                   2,840 (60%)         1,464 (31%)             437 (9%)           4,741
1975-76                    2,369 (60%)         1,071 (27%)             506 (13%)          3,946
1976-77                    1,918 (57%)         1,026 (31%)             388 (12%)          3,.332
1977-783                   1,816 (63%)            881 (31%)            173 (6%)           2,870
1978-79                    1,100 (69%)            450 (28%)             50 (3%)           1,600
1/ Percentage of total in brackets.
February 23, 1980



-57-                         ANNEX 1
Table T-2
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Farmers, Area and Flower Production in Major Zones, 1978/79
Pyrethrum
No. of        Hectares of           Dried Flowers
Zones          Farmers          Pyrethrum             Production
tons
Umalila Zone         2,800             1,300                     220
Mporoto Zone         3,300             1,125                     250
Uwanje Zone          5,300             1,700                     420
Ukinga Zone          5,300             2,100                     420
Ubena Zone           2,200             1,225                     180
Ludewa Zone            600               350                      50
Sub-total       19,500             7,800                   1,550
Arusha/Kilimanjaro           625              250                      50
Total           20,025             8,050                   1,600
February 23, 1980



-58-                                ANNEX 1
Table T-3
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Average Overall Pyrethrin Contents (%) 1962-1979
Year                          Content %
1962-63                             1.29
1963-64                             1.24
1964-65                             1.28
1965-66                             1.30
1966-67                             1.23
1967-68                             1.22
1968-69                             1.18
1969-70                             1.22
1970-71                             1.26
1971-72                             1.23
1972-73                             1.21
1973-74                             1.21
1974-75                             1.17
1975-76                             1.15
1976-77                             1.11
1977-78                             1.10
1978-79                             1.10
February 23, 1980



-59-
ANNEX I
TANZANIA                                         Table T-4
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Summary TPB Income Accounts, 1974/75 - 1978/79
1974/75         1975/76          1976/77          1977/78         1978/79
(Audited)       (Audited)        (Audited)         (Draft)       (Estimated)
-----------------------(figures in  Tsh '000)
Flowers 1/
Purchases (in tons)                         ---              ---           3,332            2,870            1,600
Average Producer Price (Tsh/kg)             ---              ---            4.00             4.CO             4.60
Volume of Sales 2/
Crude Extract (in tons)                     ---              ---                              120               71
Pyrethrum marc (in tons)                    ---              ---             ---            2,180            1,122
Pyrethrum powder (in tons)                  ---              ---             ---              330              151
Sales Prices
Crude Extract (per m ton)                   ---              ---             ---              147              290
Marc (per m ton)                            ---              ---             ---              1.4              1.3
Pyrethrum powder (per m ton)                ---              ---             ---                7                8
Revenue
Crude Extract Sales                         ---              ---             ---           17,592           20,590
Marc Sales                                  ---              ---             ---            3,073            1,459
Pyrethrum Powder Sales                      ---              ---             ---            2,293            1,208
Management fees 3/                          496            1,755           1,451              ---              ---
Levy 4/                                     237              197             ---              ---              ---
Sales of Flowers                            ---              ---          16,765              ---              ---
Gross revenue                       733            1,952          18,216           22,958           23,257
Variable Expenses
Payments to farmers                         ---              ---          13,118           10,168            7,360
Flower collection costs 5/                  ---              ---           1,695            2,030            1,400
Processing costs                            ---              ---             ---            4,721           3.964
Sub-total                           ---              ---          14,813           16,919           12,724
Variable margin                     733            1,952           3,403            6,039           10,533
(as percent of revenue)            (100)            (100)            (19)             (26)             (45)
Non-Variable Expenses
Administration 6/                           537           1,115            3,931            6,726           7,697
Sales Expenses                              ---              ---             ---              944           1,057
Depreciation                                 47               55             118              637              750
Sub-total                           584            1,170           4,049            8,307            9,504
Operational margin                  149              782            (656)          (2,268)           1,029
(as percent revenue)                (26)             (40)           (-19)            (-40)             (4)
Other Expenses (income)
Interest on overdrafts                       46               84             505            1,092           1,516
Pyrethrum development funds 7/              ---              ---             ---           (4,146)             ---
Nursery development                         ---              ---              56            2,100           2,550
Sundry income 8/                            (24)            (197)         (1,164)            (130)             ---
Sub-total                            22             (113)            603           (1,084)           4,066
Pre-tax income                      127              895              (53)         (1,184)          (3,037)
Income tax                        23             398              ---              ---              ---
Net income                          104              497              (53)         (1,184)          (3,037)
(as percent of revenue)             (14)             (25)            (--)             (-5)            (-13)
(as percent of net worth)            (4)              (5)              (-)            (-7)             (-9)
1/ TPB did not become involved in flower purchasing until 1976/77.
2/ In 1976/77, TPB sold its flowers to TECO, who handled processing and marketing.
3/ Management fee paid by TECO, based on export realizati,on of processed output.
4/ Levy paid to TPB by TECO on each kilogram of flowers delivered to TECO.
5/ Including flower transport, cost of bags, etc.
6/ Includes maintenance costs.
7/ Payment by GOT to TPB to cover the costs of pyrethrum development.
8/ Includes in 1976/77 a payment of Tsh 1 million from TECO to TPB to enable TPB to write off a loan from a
foreign bank. This item is included as income, although in fact it was more of a capital transfer.
February 23, 1980



-60-
ANNEX 1
TANZANIA                                    Table r-5
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Summary TPB Balance Sheets, 1974/75 - 1978/79
1974/75         1975/76          1976/77         1977/78          1978/79
(Audited)       (Audited)        (Audited)        (Draft)       (Estimated)
---------------(figures in  Tsh '000)-------------------------
Assets
Fixed Assets                                344             379              947           2,742            1,992
Investment in TECO                       2,496            2,496           2,496            2,496           2,496
Work-in-progress 1/                         ---           3,300            7,600          20,566           52,000
Total long-term Assets            2,840           6,175           11,043          25,804           56,488
Curreint Assets
Small inventories, tools                  23               46             160              306             306
Stock, empty bags                        ---              ---             790            1,288           1,300
Accounts due from TECO                     41             600           4,731            4,537           4,537
Debtors, prepayments                       66             281              320           7,062           7,062
Cash, bank balances                      422            4,939             770            3,082           3,474
Sub-total                     552            5,866           6,771           16,275          16,679
Less Current Liabilities
Creditors, accrued charges                 94             232             874            1,759           1,759
Provision for taxation                     23             398             ---              ---              ---
Bank loans 2/                            936              949               13             ---             ---
Overdraft                                                 ---           5,861           15,164          17,811
Sub-total                   1,053            1,579           6,748           16,923          19,570
Net Working Capital                     (501)           4,287               23            (648)         (2,891)
Total net assets                       2,339           10,462          11iO66           25,156          53,597
Liabilities
Long-term loans 3/                          ---             ---              ---           9,026          21,626
Net worth
Initial Government grant               1,560            1,560           1,560           1,560            1,560
Accumulated surplus                       779           1,276           1,223               39           (2,836)
Capital grants 4/                        ---            7,626           8,283          14,531           33,247
net worth                       2,339          10,462          11,066           16,130           31,971
Total net worth & liabilities                           Q l462         11,066           252156          53,597
Long-term debt/net worth ratio 5/              neg             neg              neg          36:64            40:60
Current asset/current liabilities ratio  0.5:1              3.1:1            1.0:1           1.0:1           0.9:1
1/ Construction of the new pyrethrum processing plant at Mafinga
2/ A loan from a private foreign bank.
3/ Two loans from the Tanzania Investment Bank to finance part of the costs of the Mafinga Extraction Plant.
One loan is for Tsh 18.6 million, repayable over 10 years at 10 percent annual interest. The second is
for Tsh 8.9 million, repayable over 11 years (with one year of grace) at an annual interest rate of 11
percent.
4/ Payments from the Government budget for nursery development and for the Government contribution towards
the costs of the Mafinga plant.
5/ 'Neg' indicates that long-term debt is negligible.
Zebruary 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYRETNiRUM PROJECT
Projected TPB 'Without-Project' Income Statements 1/
1979/80     1980/81      1981/82    1982/83       1983/84      1984/85     1985/86      1986/87      1987/88     1988/89    198990
------------------------------------------------(Figures in Tsh '000)-----------------------------
Flowers
TPB purchases (m tons)                    2,050        2,555       2,758        2,961       3,061        3,193        3,193       3,193        3,061        3,193        3,193
Average producer prices (Tsh/kg)               6.0         7.5          8.3          9.2        10.0         10.9        11.6         12.4         13.3        14.1         15.1
Volume of sales 2/
Crude extract (m tons)                        77.6       108.5        112.4       121.4        130.3       134.7        140.5        140.5        134.7       140.5        140.5
Pyrethrum marc (m tons)                   1,238.6     1,731.7      1,793.9      1,937.6     2,079.6      2,149.8      2,242.4     2,242.4    2,149.8        2,242.4     2,242.4
Pyrethrum powder (a tons)                     83.0       100.0       100.0        100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0        100,0       100.0        100.0        100.0
Sales Prices 3/
Crude extract (per m ton)                   383.0        426.2       468.9        511.1        557.1       576.7        596.2        615.2        637.2       658.5        717.8
Marc (per m ton)                               0.9         1.0          1.1          1.2         1.2          1.2          1.2         1.2          1.2          1.1          1.1
Pyrethrum powder (per m ton)                 10.0         11.1         12.2        13.3         14.5         15.8        15.8         17.2         18.8        20.5         22.3
Revenue
Crude extract sales                      29,721      46,243       52,704       62,048      72,590       77,681       83,766      86,436       85,831       92,519     100,851
Marc sales                                1,115        1,732       1,973        2,325        2,496       2,580        2,691        2,691       2,580        2,467        2,467
Powder sales                                830        1,110       1,22         1,330       1,450      1.580        1.,580         120         1,880         ,8050    2. 230
Gross revenue                31,666       49,085       55,897      65,703       79,032       81,841      88,047       90,847       90,291      97,036      105,548
Variable Expenses
Payments to growers 4/                   12,300      19,162       22,891       27,241      30,610       34,804       37,039      39,353       40,711       45,021      48,214
Flower collection costs 5/                1,973        2,706       3,213        3,760        4,237       4,817        5,250        5,723       5,981        6,799        6,895
Processing costs 6/                       5,042       2,484        2,967        3,531       3,968         ,           4,814    5_248           5485                      6,326
Sub-total                    19,315       24,352      29,071       34,532       38,815      44,132       47,103       50,324      52,177       58.055       61,435
Variable margin              12,351       24,733       26,826      31,171       40,217       37,709      40,944       40,523       38,114      38,981       44,113
(as percent of revenue)          (39)        (50)         (48)         (47)        (51)         (46)         (47)        (45)         (42)         (40)         (42)
Non-Variable Expenses             -
Admiristration 7/                         8,624        9,764      10,955       12,180      13,276       14,471       15,773       17,193      18,740       20,427       22,265
Sales expenses                            1,163        1,291       1,420        1,548       1,687        1,839        2,005        2,185       2,382        2,596        2,830
Depreciation                                750        5,500       5,500        5,500       5,500        5,500        5,500        5,500       5,500        5,500        5,500
Manufacturing overhead 8/                    ---       4,400       4,840        5,276        5750        6,268        6,832        7,447                    8,848        9,644
Sub-total                    10,537       20,955      22,715       24,504       26,213      28,078       30,070       32,325      34,739       37,371       40,239
Operating margin               1,814       3,778        4,111       6,667       14,004        9,631      10,874        8,198        3,375        1,610       3,874
(as percent of revenue)          (6)          (8)          (7)         (10)        (18)         (12)         (12)          (9)         (4)          (2)          (4)
Interest: on long-term debt               2,822       2,822        2,544        2,262       1,980        1,697       1,415        1,133          851          567          286
Interest: on overdraft 9/                 1.745       2.017        1,204          952         409          ---      ___                           ----- -                  ---
Sub-total                     4,567        4,839        3,748       3,214        2,389        1,697       1,415        1,133          851          567          286
Pre-tax income                           (2,753)     (1,061)         363        3,453      11,615        7,934       9,459        7,065        2,524        1,043        3,588
Income tax                                  ---          ---         182        1,727       5,808        3,967       4,730        3,533        1,262          522        1,794
Net income                               (2,753)      (1,061)         181       1,726       5,807        3,967        4,729       3,532        1,262          521        1,794
(as percent of revenue)                  (-9)        (-2)          (-)         (3)         (7)          (5)          (5)         (4)          (1)          (1)          (2)
(as percent of net worth)                (-8)        (-3)          (-)         (5)        (14)          (9)          (9)         (6)          (2)          (1)          (3)
1/ In current prices,assuming annual inflation rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent thereafter.
2/ On the basis of flower production patterns as in para. 2.23, with the extract and marc from  flowers purchased by TPB in one year assumed sold in
the following year.                                                                                                                                                               v
3/ On the basis of the export prices detailed in para. 7.16.
4/ On the basis of producer prices as projected in para. 2.22.
5/ Including transportation costs and the costs of bags.                                                                                                                           '
6/ Processing in 1979/80 takes place in Arusha; TPB processing costs in that year are sufficient to meet full costs of processing.  In succeeding
years, processing assumed to take place in TPB's Mafinga plant.
7/ Costs of administration assumed to increase by 2 percent per annum in real terms through 1984/85, and to remain constant in real terms thereafter.
8/ Overhead costs of operation of Mafinga plant.
9/ At an annual interest rate of 10 percent.
February 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJ CT
Proiected TPB 'Witho,,t-Project' Balance She-ts J/
1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
------------------------------------------------(Figures in Tsh '000)------------------------------------------------
Assets
Fixed assets at start of year, 2/, 3/                56,488      68,138      60,142      54,642      49,142      43,642      38,142      32,642      27,142       21,642      16,142
Additions                                            12,400         ---          ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---
Fixed assets at end of year                          68,888      65,642      60,142      54,642      49,142      43,642      38,142      32,642      27,142       21,642      16,142
Less: Depreciation 4/                                   750       5500                    5,500       5,500 .                 5.500 5,                5Q          5.500 55500
Net fixed assets                              68,138      60,142      54,642      49,142      43,642      38,142      32,642      27,142       21,642      16,142      10,642
Current assets
Small inventories, tools                              337         374         411         449         489         533         581         633         690          752         820
Stocks, empty bags                                  1,430       1,587       1,746       1,903       2,074       2,261       2,464       2,686       2,928       3,192       3,479
Amounts due from TECO 5/                            4,537         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---          ---         ---         ---
Debtors, repayments                                 7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062
Working cash balances                               3,672       4,076       4,484       4,887       5,327       5,806       6,329       6,898       7,519       8,196       8,933
Cash reserves                                         ---         ---         ---           -       7,910      12,086      19,564      23,816      24.647      26.185      30,879
Sub-total                         17,038      13,099      13,703      14,301      22,862      27,748      36,000      41,095      42,846       45,387      51,173
Less: Current liabilities
Creditors, accrued charges                          1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759
Provision for taxation                                ---         ---         182       1,727       5,603       3,967       4,730       3,533       1,262         522       1,794
Overdrafts                                         20,173      12,039       9,520       4,087         ---         ___         ___
Sub-total                        21,932      13,798      11,461       7, 573      7,567       5,726       6,489       5,292       3,021        2,281       3,553
Net working capital                                  (4,894)       (699)      2,242       6,728      15,295      22,022      29,511      35,803      39,825      43,106      47,620
Total net assets                 63,244      59,443      56,884      55,870      58,937      60,164      62,153      62,945      61,467       59,248      58,262
Liabilities
Long-term loans 6/                                   27,440      24,700      21,960      19,220      16,480      13,740      11,000       8,260       5,520        2,780         ---
Net worth:
Initial GOT grant                                   1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560
Accumulated net income                             (5,589)    (6,650)    (6,469)    (4,743)         1,064       5,031       9,760      13,292      14,554      15,075      16,869
Capital grants 7/                                  39.833      39.833      39,833      39,833      39,833      39,833      39,833      39,833      39,833      39,.833     39.833
Total net worth                  35,804      34,743      34,924      36,650      42,457      46,424      51,153      54,685      55,947       56,468      58,262
Total net worth & Liabilities                          63,244      59,443      56,884      55,870      58,937      60,164      62,153      62,945      61,467      59,248      58,262
Long-term debt/net worth ratio                          43:57       42:58       39:61       34:66       28:72       23:77       18:82       13:87        9:91         5:95      0:100
1/ In current prices, assuming annual inflation rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent in succeeding years.
_/ Since the major asset of TECO, (the Arusha processing plant), is no longer required after 1979/80, TPB's interest in this is assumed writteni off
in 1980/81.
3/ The Mafinga plant is expected to comsence operations at the beginning 6f 1980/81.
4/ The Mafinga plant has been depreciated at the following a:,cmal rates: 4 percent on the factory buildings, 8 percent on tmwhinery, 20 percent on
vehicles, 15 percent on furniture and fittings and 20 percent on pre-operational expenditures.
5/ It is assumed that the amount due for 'ITECO (representing accumulated profits) is transferred to TPB once the Arusha processing plant is closed.
6/ Two loans from the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) for the construction of the Mafinga plant.  One loan is for Tsh 18.6 million, repayable over
10 years at a 10 percent annual interest rates.  The second is for Tsh 8.9 million, repayable over 11 years (with one year of grace) at an                                     H
anntual interest rate of 11 percent.
7/ Payments for Government in previous years nursery development, and Government contribution towards the costs of construction of the Mafinga                                     m
plant.
February 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYREThRUM PROJECT
Projected 1PB 'Without-Project' Cash Flows 1/
1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
Cash Inflow
Government grant 2/                  6,626          ---        ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---
TIB loan 3/'                          ,77'-                    ---         ---         ---'''
Nct income                          (2,753)    (1,061)         181       1,726       5,808       3,967       4,729       3,532       1,262         521       1,794
Depreciation                           750       5,500       5,500       5,500       5,500       5,500       5,500       5,500       5,500       5,500       5,500
Cash reccived from .;EC                 ---      4,537         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---
Provision for taxation                 ---         ---         182       1,727       5,807      3,967        4L730      _3,53      _1-262          522       1,794
Total cash inflow          10,397       8,976       5,863       8,953      17,115      13,434      14,959      12,565       8,024       6,543       9,088
Cash Outflow
Exnenditure on Mafinga plant        12,400         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---         ---
Repayment of TIB loans 5/               ---      2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740
Increase in current assets             359         598         604         598         651         710         774         843         920       1,003       1,092
Payment of taxation                    ---         ---         ---         182       1,727       5,807       3,967       4,730                                 522
Total cash outflo-         12,759       3,338        3,344      3,520       5,118       9,257       7,481       8,313       7,193       5,005       4,354
Net cash inflow (outflow)           (2,362)      5,638       2,519       5,433      11,997       4,177       7,478       4,252       3,596       1,538       4,734
Cumulative net cash inflow/         (2,362)      3,276       5,795      11,228      23,225      27,402      34,880      39,132      42,728      44,266      49,000
(outflow)
1/ In current prices, assuming annuial inflation rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percenIt in 1981 and 9 percent thereafter.
2/ For construction of the Mafinga plant.
3/ Final installment of loan for the Mafinga plant.
4/ Accumulated earnings transferred from TECO to TPB after the Arusha processing plant is no longer required.
5/ Two loans for TIB for construction of the Mafinga plant.  The first is for T h 18.6 million, repayshle over 10 years at a 10 percent annual
interest rate.  The second is for Tsh 8.9 million, repayable over 11 years (with one year of grace) it an annual interest rate of 11 percent.
February 23, 1980
H>
X t
to,



ANNEX 1
-64-                               Table T-9
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Road im.provement Program
Road
Mbeya Region                                        Classification      Km
Group  I:  Santilya-Ilembo                             District         13
Ilembo-Ibaba                               District          27
Access Road to Izombwe                     Feeder             6
Access Road to Masoko                      Feeder             7
Access Road to Mbagala                     Feeder             3
Access Road to Mbawi                       Feeder             4
Group II:  Access Road to Mwela                        Feeder           10
Access Road to Nyalwella                   Feeder             4
Access Road to Ngolo                       Feeder             8
Access Road to Ilungo-Manshese             Feeder            10
Sub-total               92
Iringa Region
Group III: Access Road to Kinyike                      Feeder            6
Access Road to Mlondwe                     Feeder            10
Access Road to Lugonda                     Feeder             3
Group  IV: Bulongwe-Kitulo                            District          45
Group   V: Jct.Ivilikingi-Kitulo                      District          23
Access Road to Ivilikingi                  Feeder             8
Group  VI: Mangoto-Ibaga                               Feeder           12
Group VII: Access Road to Mahenye Farm                Feeder             5
Sub-total              112
Total                  204



-65-
ANNEX 1
Table T-lO
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Roads Component - Equipment List and Cost
Number      Unit Costj/    Total Cost       FE %            FE Cost
---=(Tsh '000)--------                  (Tsh '000)  (US$ '000)
Heavy Plant
Crawler Tractor (Angle Razer
and Ripper (180-220HP))                1          1,140.7          1,140.7       95        1,083.7          130.6
Motor Grader (115-135HP)                 2            629            1,258          95       1,195.2          144
Front End Wheel Loader (15 m3)           1            524.6            524.6       95          498.4           60.1
Self-propelled pneumatic compactor
(8-10 ton)                             1            320              320         95          304            36.6
Towed vibro-compactor (6-8 ton)          1             44.6              44.6      95           42.4            5.1
Industrial Tractor with bucket and
back-hoe (80HP)                        1            296.6            296.6       95          281.8          34
Water bowser (6,000 1)                   1            170.9             170.9       95          162.4          19.6
Sub-total                                                    3,755.4       95       3,567.9          430
Vehicles
Pick-ups (750 kg)                        1             51.4              51.4       95          48.8            5.9
Tipper trucks (7 ton)                    3            208.9             626.7      95          595.4           71.7
Platform trucks (2m3/3 ton)              1             18.5              18.5      95           17.6            2.1
Mobile service workshop                  1            604.8             604.8      95          574.6           69.2
4 WD stationwagon                        4            139.5            558         95          530.1          63.9
Caravan trailer                          1             56               56         95           53.2            6.4
Sub-total                                                   1,915.4        95       1,819.6          219.2
Equipment
Compressor (125 cfm)                     1             45.1              45.1      95           42.8            5.2
Concrete mixer (300 1)                   1            109.3            109.3       95          103.8          12.5
Water pump (75 mm)                       1             13.7              13.7      95            13             1.6
Welding machine (600 omp)                1             55.6              55.6      95            52.8           6.4
Machine tools                                         200.8             200.8       95          190.8          23
Air tools                             1 set             5.9               5.9       95            5.3           0.6
Mechanics tools                       5 sets            9.3              46.5      95           44.2            5.3
Fuel tank (400 1)                        2             23.2             46.4       95           44.1            5.3
Sub-total                                                      523.3       95          496.8          59.9
Total                                                        6,194.1       95       5,884.3          709.1
1/ Prices delivered to RIMLT in Dar-es-Salaam.
October 18, 1979



ANNEX 1
-66-                               Table T-ll
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
RIMU Local Staff and Labor Requirements
Staff Category                            Number Required
Construction Superintendent                               2
Equipment Superintendent                                  1
Technical Officer                                         1
Accountant/Administrator                                  1
Accounts Clerks                                           2
Store-keepers                                             2
Foremen                                                   2
Mechanics                                                 5
Plant Operators                                           7
Drivers                                                  10
Carpenters                                                5
Masons                                                    5
Unskilled labor                                          92
135



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Phasing of Project Costs
PYl        PY2         PY3         PY4        PY5
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85         Total   FE %   FE Amount
---------------------(Figures in Tsh '000)--------------------              (Tsh '000)
Smallholder Production Program 1/
Improved Planting Material Program                 650       1,040       1,370      1,330       1,330       5,720      40     8 285
Unimproved Planting Material Program              1,266        955         585         ---        ---       2,806      12       340
Pest Control Program                                145         70          75          80         80         450      75
TPB Extension Service                               180        232         232         232        232       1,108    ---        ---
Drying Study and Investments                        300        950         500         500        500       2,750      68     1,870
Flower stores/buying centers                        981        774       1,177         ---        ---       2,932      37     1,076
Vehicles                                         3,955         ---      ___            ---      -----       3,955      83     3,280
Sub-total                     7,507       4,021       3,939      2,142       2,142      19,721     47      9,213
Research Program 2/
Civil works                                         524      2,143         ---         ---        ---       2,667      40     1,076
Equipment                                           291        200         ---         ---        ---         491      95       467
Vehicles                                            200         45         ---         ---        ---         245      90       219
Incremental staff                                  651         711         711        711         711       3,495      71     2,465
Research Operations                                 246        401         457         524        682       2,310      32       740
Training and Consultancy                           897         792         867         672        622       3.850      86     3.228
Sub-total                     2,809       4,292      2,035       1,907       2,015      13,088      63     8,195
Strengthening of TPB 3/
Incremental TPB staff                            2.080       2,080       2,080      2,080       2,080      10,400      75     7,845
Short-term technical assistance                    350         ---         ---         ---        ---         350 
Staff training                                      200        170         170         170        170         880      57       500
Offices and Housing                              3,901       7,527       1,890         ---        ---      13,318      39     5,210
Vehicles                                            620        ---         ---         ---        ---         620      95       589
Sub-total                     7,151       9,777      4,140       2,250       2,250      25,568      55    14,144
Roads Component 4/
Establishment of RIMU                            7,622         ---         ---        ---         ---       7,622      85     6,456
Operations of RI.MU                              1,618       3,831       3,886      3953                   13,288      66     9,354
Sub-total                     9,240       3,831      3,886       3,953         ---      20,910      76    15,810
Total Base Cost                        26,707     21,921      14,000      10,252       6,407     79,287      60    47,362
Physical Contingencies                  3,353      3,201       1,658         975         590      9,777      59      5,804
Price Contingencies                     2,902      4,903       4,640       4,355       3,496     20,296      59    12,013
Total Cost                             32,962     30,025      20,298      15,582      10,493    109,360      60    65,179
/     .e summar  in TaleT1
1/ Detailed summary in Table T-13
2/ Detailed summary in Table T-14 5m
3/ Detailed summary in Table T-15 6
/      Detailed summary in Table T-16 
February 23, 1980



-68-                                                         ANNEX 1
Table T-13
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Smallholder Production Program:  Cost Summary
PY1         PY2         PY3          PY4         PY5
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85            Total   FE %   FE Amount
-----<Figures in Tsh '000)----------------------                                (Tsh '000)
Long-tarm Planting Material Program
Bulking centers 1/                                    420          400         400         420          400       2,040      39        805
Village clonal nurseries 2/                            230         640         970          910         930       3,680      40      1,480
Sub-total                         650       1,040        1,370       1,330       1,330        5,720              2,285
Short-term Planting Material Program
Seed farms 3/                                         663          235         ---         ---         ---          898      20        180
Village seedling nurseries 4/                          603         720         585         ---          ---       ].908       8        160
Sub-total                       1,266          955         585         ---         ---        2,806                340
Pest Control Program
Ynapsack sprayers 5/                                    85         ---         ---         ---          ---          85      75         64
Insecticide 6/                                         60           70          75          80           80         365      75        274
Sub-total                         145           70          75          80           80         450                338
TPB Extension Service
Assistant Production Officers 7/                       144         196         196         196          196         928    ---         ---
Production Officers 8/                                 36           36          36          36           36         180    ---
Sub-total                         180          232         232         232         232       1,108    ---          ---
Drying Study and Investments
Consultant study 9/                                   300          450         ---         ---         ---          750      89        670
Pilot drying investments 10/                          ---          500         500         500         500        2,000      60      1,200
Sub-total                         300          950         500         500         500        2,750              1,870
Flower Stores/Buying Centers  - Construction 11/   900               710       1,080          ---         ---       2,690      40      1,076
- Fees L2/              81           64          97                                  242 --  24
Sub-total                         981          774       1,177         ---          ---       2,932              1,076
Vehicles
4 WD vehicles 13/                                      775         ---         --           ---                     775      95        736
Motorcycles 14/                                        330                     ---          ---         ---         330      80        264
Trucks 15/                                          2,880                                                         2880       80      2,304
Sub-total                       3,985          ---         ---         ---          ---       3,985              3,304
Total Base Cost                           7,507       4,021        3,939       2,142       2,142       19,751      47      9,213
Physical Contingencies                      849          429         462         164          164       2,068      47        972
Price Contingencies                         812          896       1,367         999       1,287        5,367      47     2,520
Total Cost                                9,168       5,346        5,768       3,305       3,593       27,186      47    12,705
1/ Includes cost of labor, insecticides, fertilizers, nematocides, tools and the transport of planting material to the bulking
centers.
2/ Includes cost of labor, insecticides, fertilizers, nematocides, tools and the transport of planting material to the village
nurseries.
3/ Includes cost of labor, insecticides, fertilizers and nematocides and tools.
4/ Includes cost of labor, fertilizer and nematocides and tools.
5/ 100 sprayers at a unit cost of Tsh 850.
6/ Calcul,ated on basis of use of 2 1. of sumithion insecticide annually on 5 percent of planted area.
7/ Incremental certificate-level staff -- 12 in 1980/81, 16 in succeeding years.
8/ Incremental diploma-level staff -- two in 1980/81 and succeeding years.
9/ A four man-month reconnaissance survey followed by a detailed six man-month study.
10/ To implement the findings of the consultant study.
11/ Stores of 90 m2 would be built as follows: in 1980/81, at Ujuni, Kilolo, Kipanga, Santilya and Ilembo; in 1981/82, at
Lupila and Ipelele; and in 1982/83 at Uwemba, Simambwe, Bulambya, Igoma, Matamba and Lufilyo. A 175 m2 store would be
built at Ndulamo in 1981/82.  The base unit cost for construction of these stores has been taken as Tsh 2,000 per m2.
12/ Design fees of 6% of construction cost, supervision fees of 3%.
13/ Five fcur-wheel drive vehicles, for regional field staff.
4/ Twentv-two motorcycles for extension staff.
15/ Tvelve high-side seven-tor. trucks.
February 23, 1980



-69-
TANZANIA                                                         ANNEYC I
Table T-14
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Research Program:  Cost Summary
PY1         PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85            Total   FE %   FE Amount
_____ ........     ___--(Figures in Tah '000)                  ----------   (Tsh '000)
Civil Works                                              --         44--                     ----44                           5          1
Tissue Culture Building 1/                            ---         424          ---         ---         ---         424      50        212
Glasshouse 2/                           ~                         504         ---          ---         ---         504      50        252
Houses 3/                                             374       1,155          ---         ---         ---       1,529      40        612
Fees 41f                                              150          60          ---                     ---         210                --
Sub-total                         524       2,14          ---          ---         ---       2,667              1,076
Equipment j/                                            291          200         ---         ---         ---         491      95        467
Vehicles
Motor cycles 6/                                        45          45         ---          ---         ---          90      80         72
Four-wheel-drive vehicles  7/                         155         ---         ---          ---         ---         155      95        147
Sub-total                         200          45         ---          ---         ---         245                219
Incremental Staff
Research Officer 8/                                   580         580         580          580         580       2,900      85      2,465
Local staff 9/                                         71         131         131          131         131         595    ---        - --
Sub-total                         651         711         711          711         711       3,495    ---       2,465
Rese rch 0 erations
Field costs  10                                       126         234         252          252         252       1,116      20        223
Operation of tissue culture unit                      ---         ---           55         105         280         440       5         22
Exchange of planting material II/                     ---          17         ---           17         ---          34      80         27
Operation of vehicles 12/                             120         150         150          150         150         720      65        468
Sub-total                         246         401         457          524         682       2,310                740
Training and Conaultancy
Tong-term research support 1                          622         622         622          622         622       3,110      80      2,488
Consultancy 14/                                       225         ---           75         ---         ---         300    100         300
Courses and study tours 15/                            50          50           50          50         ---         200    100         200
Training 16/                                          ---         120         120          ---          -          240    100         240
Sub-total                         897         792         867          672         622       3,850      84     3,228
Total Base Cost                                2,809       4,292        2,035       1,907       2,015      13,088              8,195
Physical Contingencies                           362          659         204         191         201       1,617              1,019
Price Contingencies                              305          937         628         783       1,061       3,714              2,340
Total Cost                                     3,476       5,888        2,867       2,881       3,277      18,419             11,554
1/ Consisting of a laboratory and an incubator room, with a total area of 113 m2, at a unit cost of Tsh 3,750 per m2.
2/ Of 126 m2, at a unit cost of Tsh 4,000 per m2.
3J One type H-108 (108 m2), 1 H-82 (82 m2) and 4 H-60 (60 a12), at a cost per m2 of Tsh 3,000 for H-108, 2,600 for H-82 and 2,200
for H-60 plus furniture for each house.
4/ At a rate of 6% of construction cost for design and 3% for supervision.
5/ Plant selection equipment, pyrethrin content testing equipment and laboratory equipment.
6/ 6 motorcycles, for the Field Office and Field Assistants.
7/ For the Research Officer.
8/ Internationally-recruited.
9/ One Field Officer (Diploma), 5 Field Assistants (Certificate holders), 2 Laboratory Assistants and a driver.
10/Provides for the operation at full development (1982/83 and after) of four hectares of selection fields at Uyole and a
total of ten hectares at five outstations, at a unit cost of Tah 18,000 per hectare.
fl/Provides for a trip by chartered aircraft in 1981/82 and in 1983/84 to exchange planting material with neighboring
pyrethrum producing countries.
12/Operating costs of a four-wheel-drive vehicle (30,000 kms annually at Tsh 3.0 per km) and 6 motor cycles (10,000 km each
at cost of Tsh 1.0 per km).
13/Research support on a contract basis from an overseas university specializing in tissue culture.  Annual costs estimated
at Tsh 230,000 for staff, Tsh 230,000 for services provided (printing, use of glasshouses, etc), Tsh 46,000 for travel
and Tsh 116,000 for subsistence.
14/ Three months of short term consultancy in 1980/81 and one month in 1982/83 (at a cost per man-month of Tsh 75,000) to
advise on tissue culture.
15/ Provides for study tours in 1980/81 and 1982/83 to pyrethrum producing countries and countries using tissue culture
techniques, and for attendance by laboratory personnel in 1981/82 and 1983/84 at courses in tissue culture techniques.
16/ Provision for MSC course for Tanzanian research worker.
February 23, 1980



-70-
TANZANIA                                                    ANNEX 1
Table T-15
PYRETHRUN?, PROJECT
Strengthening of TPB: Coat SummarY
PYi         FY2                      y4          r
1980/SiL   l981/8         2_:2283   1983184    1984/85         Toftal   FE    FE Amount
(Tsh '000)
Incremental TPB Staff
Financial Controller 1/                              580         580         580         580          580       2,900      85      2,465
Planning and Production Agronomist 1/               580          580         580         580          580       2,900      85      2,465
Field Agronomist 1/                                  580         580         580         580          580       2,900      85      2,465
Accounts Staff 2/                                    180         180         180         180          180         900      50        450
Local Staff 3/                                       160         160         160         160          160      _800 
Sub-total                2,080       2,080       280 2,      080 0        2,080      10,400      75       7,845
Short-term Technical Assistance
Transport Management Study 4/                        350                                 ---          --- _350             --
Sub-total                  350         ---          ---         ---         ---         350      --
Training
Training for Field Staff 5/                           50          20          20          20           20         130      --
Overseas training and seminars 6/                    100         100         100         100          100         S00    i0          500
Local training and seminars 7/                        50          50          50          50           50         250      --
Sub-total                  200         170         170          170         170         880      57         500
Offices and Mousing
Head office, Iringa 8/                               ---       1,840       1,840         ---         ---        3,680     40       1,472
Regional Offices: Iringa 9/                          ---         570         ---         ---         ---          570     40         228
: Mbeya 9/                         ---         570         ---         ---                      570     40         228
District Office - Makete tO/                         ---         280         ---         ---         ---          280     40         112
Houses - Senior Staff 11/                         1,620        1,620         ---         ---          ---       3,240      40      1,296
- Middle-level staff 12/                   1,200       1,785         ---                      ---       2,985      40      1,194
- Junior staff 13/                           ---         132         ---         ---          ---         132      40         57
Cosign and construction supervision fees 14/    681              300          50         ---         ---       1,C31       ---       ---
Furniture for houses  15/                           400          430         ---         -           ---          830      75        623
Sub-total                3,901       7,527       1,890          ---         ---      13,318      39       5,210
Vehicles 15/                                           620         ---         ---         ---          ---         620      95        589
Total Base Cost                          7,151       9,777        4,140       2,250       2,250      25,568       55     14,144
Physical Contingencies                   1,105       1,730          603         225         225       3,888      55       2,138
Price Contingencies                        816       2,267        1,416         900       1,148       6,547      55       3,601
'rotal Cost                              9,072       13,774       6,159       3,375       3,623      36,003       55     19,883
1/ Internationally recruited at an estimated annual cost inclusive of benefits of Tsh 580,000 (US$ 70,000).
2/ Cost Accountant and Internal Auditor, assumed to be expatriate staff recruited locally at an annual cost of
Tsh 90,000 (US$ 11,000).
3/ PlannirLg Officer, Statistician/Evaluation Officer, Procurement Officer and Transport Officer, all at anl
annual cost of Tsh 40,000.
4/ To be carried out in an estimated six man-months by the National Institute of Productivity.
5/ A two-week training course at Uyole for all TPB field staff in 1980/81, at a cost per staff member of Tsh 2,000,
followed by refresher courses for half of TPB's field staff each year, at a cost of Tsh 1,400 per staf:- member.
6/ For training of staff in management, marketing, finance and personnel administration.
7/ For training o5 staff at local training institutions in factory management, administration and finance.
8/ Of size 1150 m at a cost per m of Tsh 3,200.
9/ Of size 190 m2 at a cost per m2 of Tsh 3,000.
10/ Of size 100 m2 at a cost per m22 of Tsh 2,800.
l1/ Of size 108 m2 at a cost per m  of Tsh 3,000.
12/ Of size 82 m2 at a cost per m2 of Tsh 2,600.
13/ Of size 60 m2 at a cost per m2 of Tsh 2,200.
14/ At a cost of 6% of construction cost for design and 3% for-supervision.
15/ At a cost of Tsh 54,000 for each senior staff house, Tsh 40,000 for each middle-level staff house and Ish 10,000
for each Junior staff house.
16/ Five four-wheel-drive vehicles, for the Financial Controller, the two agronomists, the Planning and Production
Manager and the Executive Officer.
February 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Roads Component: Cost Summary
PYl         PY2        PY3         PY4         PY5
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85          Total   FE %    b Amount
-(Figures in Tsh '000) -(Tsh '000)
Establishment of RIMU
Houses l/                                         1,134          ---         ---         ---         ---      1,134      40        454
Offices 2/                                           140         ---        ---         ---         ---          140     40         56
Workshop 3/                                          154         ---         ---         ---         ---         154     40         62
Equipment 4/                                      6,194        ___         ___         ___         ___        6,194      95      5,884
Sub-total                      7,622         ---         --            ----                7,622             6,456
RIMU Operations
Spare parts 5/                                    1,037           24          24         24         ---       1,109      95      1,054
Tires, fuel, oil, lubricants 6/                      ---         440        440         440         ---       1,320      65        858
Materials and supplies 7/                            ---         989         989         989         ---      2,967      55      1,63
Staff-technical assistance 8/                        581      1,743       1,743       1,743         ___       5,810    100       5,810
Staff-local salaried 8/                              ---         113        113         113         ---         339    ---         ---
Staff-local road improvement 8/                      ---         489         489        489         ---       1,467    ---         ---
Staff-local road maintenance 8/                     ---           33         88         155         ---         276    ---       _---
Sub-total                      1,618       3,831       3,886       3,953         ---      13,288             9,354
Total base cost                          9,240       3,831       3,886       3,953         ---      20,910      76    15,810
Physical Contingency                     1,037         383         389         395         ---       2,204      76     1,675
Price ConLingency                          969         803       1,229       1,673         ---       4,674      76     3,552
Total Cost                    11,246       5,017       5,504       6,021                  27,788            21,037
I/ 3 houses each of 108 m2for the three technical assistance person5el, in Mbeya.
2/ 50 m2 of office space in Mbeya at a unit cost of Tsh 2,800 per m .
3/ A small workshop (55 m2) adjacent to the RIMU office in Mbeya at a unit cost of Tsh 2,800 per m2.
4/ A full list of equipment to be procured under the Project is in Table T-10.
5/ At the time of equipment purchase, spares would be  purchased to the value of 20 percent of initial cost for equipment and
15 percent of initial cost for vehicles. Thereafter, small spares would be purchased as required.
6/ These costs have been calculated on the basis of annual requirements for tires of 5 percent of the cost of equipment using
tires and 10 percent of the cost of vehicles. Annual requirements for fuel, oil and lubricants have been calculated on the
basis of 10 percent of the cost of these items,
7/ Steel, lumber and cement for road reconstruction and maintenance.
8/ Estimated local staff requirements as in Table T-11.  Technical assistance costs assume that the staff involved would be
recruited by February 28, 1981.
H-'
February 23, 1980



-72-                                    ANNEX 1
Table T-17
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(US$ '000)
Bank Group
FY and Quarter              Quarterly Disbursement       Cumulative Disbursement
FY81    Qi                            ---
Q2                             -
Q3                            100                         100
Q4                           200                          300
FY82    Ql                            400                          700
Q2                           600                        1,300
Q3                           700                        2,000
Q4                            600                       2,600
FY83    Q1                            600                        3,200
Q2                            600                       3,800
Q3                            600                       4,400
Q4                            600                       5,000
FY84    Ql                            600                        5,600
Q2                            600                       6,200
Q3                            600                       6,800
Q4                            600                       7,400
FY85    Ql                            600                        8,000
Q2                           500                        8,500
Q3                           400                        8,900
Q4                           400                        9,300
FY86    Ql                            400                        9,700
Q2                            300                      10,000
1/ This schedule assumes that the Credit would become effective in August 1980
and would close on December 31, 1985.
February 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Hectare Budgets for Pyrethrum and Maize
Pyrethrum                                                          Maize
Without Project           Without Project             With Project           Traditional Production   Improved Production
1979/80 Prices            1980/81 Prices             1980/81 Prices
Production
Average yield (kg/ha)                               235                        235                       300                          850                     2,000
Pyrethrin content (%)                               1.1                        l.t                       1.3                          ---                       ---
Producer price (Tsh/kg) 1/                          6.0                        7.5                       9.5                          1.0                       1.0
Gross revenue (Tsh)                               1,410                      1,763                     2,850                          850                     2.000
Labor    Input Costs      Labor    Input Costs    Labor    Input Costs    Labor            Input Costs     Labor    Input Costs
(mandays)      (Tsh)      (mandays)       (Tsh)      (mandays)       (Tsh)      (mandays)       (Tsh)      (mandays)       (Tsh)
Establishment Costs 2/
Land preparation                              17            6.7         17              6.7        17             6.7         ---
Planting                                      25             -          25               -         25             ---         ---            ---
Sub-total                       42           6.7          42             6.7         42            67           ---           ---          ---          ---
Production Costs
Land preparation                             ---            ---        ---              ---                       ---          50            5.0          50           5.0
Seed costs and planting3!                                 ---             ---                ---                  ---          10          25             10         61
Fertilizer costs and application 3/                  ------                                                                   ---            ---          12         143.5
Weeding                                       50            ---         50              ---        50             ---          30            ---          30
Insecticide costs & application 3/           ---            ---        ---              ---       ---             ---         ---            ---           5         32.5
Flower picking/maize harvesting               57            ---         57              ---        72             ---          19            ---          25           ---
Drying                                        14           12           14             12          18            12           ---            ---         ---
Shelling                                     ----                      --------11                                                            -25                       ---
Marketing & transport                         12            ---         12              ---        16             ---           2            ---           5           ---
Cutting back/destalking                        9            ---          9               _          9             ---         -                    ---          ---
Sub-total                      142          12           142            12         165            12            122          30            162        242
Total labor input & costs                      184           18.7        184             18.7       207            18.7         122           30           162         242
Return per hectare (Tsh)                                 1,391.3                     1,744.3                   2,831.3                      820                     1,751
Return per man-day (Tsh)                                      7.5                         9.48                     13.68                       6.72                     10.85
1/ Pyrethrum producer prices as in para. 2.20.    The producer.price of maize is Tsh 1.00 per kg in both 1979/80 and 1980/81.
2/ Since pyrethrum has a productive life of three years,the establishment costs have been allocated over a three-year period.  This is equivalent to
assuming that producers have a 'balanced' pyrethrum area, with one-third first year, one-third second year and one-third third year.
3/ The input prices charged to  farmers are subsidized to fifty percent of full market cost.                                                                                    13>
October 19, 1979



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Typical Farm Budgets
Without Project                       With Project              Faru not growing Pyrethrum ii
Crops           Crop Area  Labor Input  Net Income  Crop Area  Labor Input  Net Income  Crop Area  Labor Input  Net Income
(ha)     (mandays)        (Tsh)        (ha)     (mandays)        (Tsh)        (ha)      (mandays)       (Tsh)
Pyrethrum 2/       0.4          73.6          698         0.4         82.8          1,133 
Maize 3/           1.0         162          1,758         1.0        162            1,758         1.18        191          2,074
Wheat 4/           0.4          48            356         0.4         48              356         0.4          48            356
Peas 57            0.3          30.6          116         0.3         30.6            116         0.3          30.6          116
Other crops 6/    0.5           89          1,020         0.5         89            1,020         0.5         89           1,020
Net farm
income 7/        2.6         402.2        3,948         2.6        412.2          4,383         2.38       358.6        3,566
(Net income per
man-day, Tsh)                                 (9.8)                                  (10.6)                                  (9.9)   >
Subsistence needs 8/                        1,410                                   1,410                                 1,410
Cash income                                 2,548                                   2,973                                 2,156
(Per capita) 9/                               425                                     499                                   359
1/ It is assumed that, on farms not growing pyrethrum, maize acreage is expanded until labor utilization in the peak
month equals family labor availability.
2/ Using returns per ha from Table T-18 and labor input from Table T-20.
3/ On the basis of improved cultivation techniques, giving returns per ha in Table T-18,  and using labor input figures
from Table T-20.
4/ On the basis of average yields of 540 kg per hectare at the 1980/81 producer price of Tsh 1.65 per kg.
5/ On the basis of average yields of 430 kg per hectare at the prevailing market price of Tsh 0.90 per kg.                           >
6/ On the basis of: (a) 0.1 ha of sunflower at a yield of 600 kg per ha and a selling price of Tsh 1.50 per kg.                   a z
(b) 0.2 ha of beans, at a yield of 450 kg per ha and a selling price of Tsh 2.00 per kg.
(c) 0.1 ha of Irish potatoes, at a yield of 5,000 kg per ha and a selling price of Tsh 0.80 per kg.
(d) 0.1 ha of cabbages, with an average value per ha of Tsh 3,500.
7/ Including subsistence crops, valued at producer prices.
8/ On the basis of retention of 800 kg of maize, 90 kg of beans, all of the cabbages produced and 100 kg of Irish
potatoes, which represents sufficient food to meet basic needs.
9/ Assuming 6 members per family.
October 19, 1979



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Farm Labor Profiles
July    August    September   October   November   December   January   FebruarY    March            April       may        June       Total
I. Crop Labor Profiles (Mandays/ha)
Pyrethrum (Without-Project) 1/           8          8          6          11         11          14          31        26         23           16         15         15       184
Pyrethrum (With-Project) 2/              8          8           9         14         14          16          33        29         26           18         17         15       207
Maize3/                                 25         29          16         16         16          13           8          7         4            3         10         15        162
Wheat                                  ---          5          15         15          5         ---         ---        10         35           25          7          3       120
Peas                                                3           3          7                                ---         3          7           23         46         10       102
Others 4/                               16         18         14          16         14          12          16        16         16           14         14         12       178
II. Typical Farm Labor Profiles (Mandays)                                                                                                                                             Total
% of Farm
A.  Without-Project                                                                                                                                                       Maydays    Labor
Pyrethrum (014 ha)                 3.2       3.2         2.4         4.4        4.4        5.6        12.4       10.4        9.2          6.4       6.0        6.0       73.6        18
Maize (1.0 ha)                    25.0       29.0       16.0        16.0       16.0        13.0        8.0        7.0        4.0          3.0      10.0       15.0      162.0        40
Wheat (0.4 ha)                     ---       2.0         6.0         6.0        2.0         ---        ---        4.0       14.0         10.0        2.8       1.2       48.0        12
Peas (0.3 ha)                      ---       0.9         0.9         2.1        ---        ---         ---        0.9        2.1          6.9      13.8        3.0       30.6         8
Other crops (0.5 ha)               8.0       9.0         7.0         8.0        7.0        6.0         8.0        8.0     ' 8.0           7.0       7.0        6.0       89.0        22
Total                 36.2       44.1       32.3        36.5       29.4        24.6        28.4      30.3       37-3         33-.3      39.6       31.2     402.2       100
Labor availability 5/             45.0      45.0        45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0         45.0      45.0       45.0      540.0
B.  With Prolect
Pyrethrum (0.4 ha)                 3.2       3.2         3.6         5.6        5.6         6.4       13.2       11.6       10.4          7.2        6.8       6.0       82.8        20
Maize (1.0 ha)                    25.0      29.0        16.0        16.0       16.0        13.0        8.0        7.0        4.0          3.0      10.0       16.0      162.0        39
Wheat (0.4 ha)                     ---       2.0         6.0         6.0        2.0         ---        ---        4.0       14.0         10.0        2.8       1.2       48.0        12
Peas (0.3 ha)                      ---       0.9         0.9         2.1        ---        ---         ---        0.9       '2.1          6.9      13.8        3.0       30.6         7
Other crops (0.5 ha)               8.0       9.0         7.0         8.0        7.0        6.0         8.0        8.0        8.0          7.0        7.0       6.0       87.0        22
Total                36.2       44.1       33.5        37.7       30.6        25.4        29.2      31.5       38.5         24.1       40.4       32.2     442.2       100
Labor availability 5/             45.0      45.0        45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0      540.0
1/ With an average annual yield of dried flowers of 235 kg/ha.
2/ With an average annual yield of dried flowers of 300 kg/ha.
3/ Assuming the use of improved cultivation practices.
4/ Comprising 0.1 ha sunflower; 0.2 ha beans; 0.3 ha Irish potatoes; 0.1 ha cabbages.
5/ On the basis of 24 m.d. from the man, 24 x 0.7 m.d. from the wife, plus 4 m.d. x 0.5 for each of two children of working age.
- m
October 22, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                H 
C



-76-
ANNbdX 1
TANZANIA                                                                                   Table T-21
PYREThmRS PROJECT
Pyretbrum Area. Production and Yields
1990/91-
1980/81      1981/82      1982183      1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89      1989/90      1999/2000
Without Project-
A. PyrethrmLa,rea (ha)
lst year plants                        4.200        4,200        4,200        5,000        4,200        4,200         5,000       4,200        4,200        5,000        4,367
Znd your plants                        3,500        4,200        4,200        4,200        5,000        4,200        4,200        5,000        4,200        4,200        4,367
3rd year plants                        3,500        3,500        4.200        4.200        4,200        5.000        4.200        4,200        5.000        4,200        4.367
Total area                  11,200       11,900       12,600       13,400       13,400        13,400       13,400      13,400       13,400        13,400       13,400
B. Dried flower production Cs tons) 1/
From lst year plants                     525          525          525          625          525           525          625         525           525          625          546
Fros 2nd year plants                   1,015        1,218        1,218        1,218        1,450        1,218         1,218       1,450        1,218         1,218        1,266
Fros 3rd year plants                   1.015        1.015        1.218        1.218        1,218        1.450         1.218       1.218         1.450        1,218        1,266
Total production             2,555        2,758        2,961        3,061        3,193         3,193        3,061       3,193         3,193        3,061        3,078
C. Average flover yield (kg/ha)              228           232          235          228          238          238          228          238          238          228          235
With Project
A. Uniaproved pyrethru= area (ha) 21
lt year plants                        4,540        4,190        3,720        3,690        2,090        1,150           390          --           ---          ---          ---
2nd year plants                        3,500        4,540        4,190        3,720        3,690        2,090         1,150          390          ---          ---          ---
3rd year plants                        3,500        3,500        4,540        4.190        3,720        3.690        2.090        I,1o5           390-----
Total unimproved area                                              11,600         9,500        6,930        3,630        1,540          390          ---          ---
B. I=proved pyrethrum area (ha) 3/
lst year plants                          160          610        1,080        1,810        2,710        4,380        4,380        4,800        5,530         4,770        5,033
2nd year plants                          ---          160          610        1,080        1,810        2,710        4,380        4,380         4,800        5,530        5,033
3rd year plants                          ---          ---          160          610        1,080        1,080        2,710        4.380        4,380         4,800       5.033
Total improved area            160          770        1,850        3,500         5,600        8,170       11,470       13,560       14,710       15,100       15,100
Total area                  11,700       13,000       14,300       15,100        15,100       15,100       15,100       15,100       15,100       15,100       15,100
C. Dried flowor productiou (s tons) 1/,4/
Unimproved  let year plants              568          524          465          461          261           144           49          ---          ---          ---          ---
2rd year plants           1,015        1,317        1,215        1,079        1,070           606          334          113          ---
3rd year plants           LflU 1,015                1.317        1,215        1.079        1.070           606          334          113          -----
Solb-total                   2,598        2,856        2,997        2,755        2,410         1,820          989          447          11---                     ---
Average yield,unimproved area(kg/ha)  225             234          241          238           254          263          272          290          290          ---           ---
Improved:  1st year plants                26           98          173          290          444          701           701          768          885          763          805
2nd year plants              ---           59          226          400          670        1,003         1,621        1,621        1,776        2,046        1,862
3rd year plants              ---          ---           59          226          400           670        1.003        1.621        1.621        1.776        1,862
Sub-total                       26          157          458           916       1,514         2,374        3,325        4,010        4,282        4,585        4,529
Average yield, inproved area             160          204          248           262          270          291          290          296          291          304          300
Total production                       2,624        3,013        3,455        3,671        3,924        4,194         4,314        4,457        4,395        4,585        4,529
Overall ave-age yield                    224          232          242          243           260          278          286          295          291          304          300
Incremental flower production 5/          69          255          494          610           731       1,001         1,253        1,264        1,202        1,524        1,451
1/ On the basin of yield for unimproved eaterial of 125 kg/ha for first year plants and 290 kg/ha fot plants in each of   t:
their sercod mod third years, giving an average yield over the three-year productive life of 235 kg/ha.
2/ I-cludiog plants of 500 ha in FYI, 600 ha in PY2 and 600 ha in PY3 under the Project's short-tern planting program.
(para. 5.07).
3/ Planting under the Pro3jet's lung-torn planting program. Includes replanting of two hectares for each one hectare of
itproved rsotriol uprooted af toe thnee years.
4/ Ic the basis of yields for isproved plant saterial of 160 kg/ha for first year plants and yields of 370 kg/ha
fur plants in -,rch of their second and third years.
S/ Total 'With Project' production less 'Without Project' production.
October 10, 1979



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Pvrethrin Content, Crude Extract and Marc Production
PY1          PY2          PY3           PY4          PYS                                                                            1990/91-
1980/81      1981/82      1982/83       1983/84      1984/85      1985/86       1986/87      1987/88       1988/89      1989/90       1999/2000
Without Prolect
Dried flowers processed (m tons) 1/                          2,470        2,555        2,758         2,961        3,061        3,193         3,193        3,061         3,193        3,193         3,078
Pyrethrln content (%)                                            1.1          1.1           1.1          1.1          1.1           1.1          1.1           1.1          1.1           1.1          1.1
Production of crude extract (m tons) 2/                        108.5        112.4         121.4        130.3        134.7         140.5        140.5         134.7        140.5         140.5        135.4
Production of pyrethrum marc (m tons)                       1,731.7       1,793.9      1,937.5       2,079.6      2,149.8      2,242.4       2,242.4      2,149.8       2,242.4      2,242.4       2,149.8
With Proiect
Unimproved flowers processed (m tons) 1/                     2,470        2,598        2,856         2,997        2,755        2,410         1,820           989          447           113
Pyrethrin content, unimproved (Z) 3/                             1.1          1.1           1.1          1.11         1.12          1.13         1.13          1.13         1.13          1.13       ---
Extraction production, unimproved flowers (m tons)2/           108.5        114.3         125.7        133.1        123.4         108.9         82.3          44.7         20.2           5.1         ---
Improved flowers processed (m tons) 1/                        ---            26          157           458          916        1,514         2,374        3,324         4,010        4,282         4,585
Pyrethrin content, improved flowers (%) 4/                     ---            1.3           1.3          1.31         1.32          1.34         1.34          1.34         1.34          1.34         1.34
Extract production, improved flowers (in tons) 2/              ---            1.4           8.2         24           48.4          81.2        127.3         178.2        214.9         229.5        245.8
Total Extract Production (m tons)                108.5        115.7        133.9         157.1        171.8        190.1         209.6        222.9         235.1        234.6         245.8
Increased Extract Production (m tons)           ---             3.3         12.5          26.8         37.1         49.6          69.1         88.2          94.6         94.1         110.4
Total marc production (m tons)                1,731.7       1.839.7      2,112.4       2,422.3      2,57).: .35.               2,940.4       i.0('4.6     3,125.8      3,081.3       3,214.5
Incremental marc production                     ---            45.8        174.9         342.7        423.i        8,M. -                    &h,           883.4        838.9       1,064.7
1/ Flowers processed in each year are assumed to be those grown in the previous year.
2/ 25 percent crude extract
3/ Increases in years 1983/84-1985/86 as a result of the Project's roads components, which reduces the loss in pyrethrin content
during transport and storage.  It is assumed (see para. 8.02)  that 10 percent of the pyrethrins content is saved for these                                                                               i
flowers transported over the improved roads, and as a result the pyrethrin content rises to 1.212 on these flowers.                                                                                      - M
4! For improved flowers, pyrethrin content on some flowers will rise to 1.43% as a result of the roads component (see 3/ above).                                                                           rx
October 19, 1979



-78-                                                                    ANNEX I
Table 1-23
TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Projected TP8 'With-Project' Income Statements 1/
PY1         PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5         PY6        PY7         PY8         PY9         PY10
1980181    1981/82    1982183    1983184    1984185    1985186    1986187    1987/88    1988189    1989190
clowers
TPB purchases (n tons) 2/                        2,624       3,013       3,455       3,671       3,924       4,194       4.314       4,457       4,395       4,585
Average producer price (Tsh/kg) 2/                  7.5         8.4         9.3        10.5        11.7        13.1        14.6       16.1        17.4        18.6
Volucme of sales 4/
Crude extract (m tons)                              108.5       115.7       133.9       157.1       171.8       190.1       209.6      222.9       235.1       234.6
Pyrethrun marc (m tons)                          1,731.7    1,839.7    2,112.4    2,422.3    2,573.7    2,751.1    2,940.4    3,024.6    3,125.8    3,081.3
Pyrethrum powder (m tons)                           100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0
Sales Prices )
Crude extract                                       426.2       468.9       511.1       557.1       576.7       596.2       615.2      637.2       658.5       717.8
Pyrethrun marc                                        0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.1         1.1
Pyrethrms powder                                     10.0        11.1        12.2        13.3        14.5        15.8        17.2       18.8        20.5        22.3
Revenue
Crude extract sales                             46,243      54,252      68,436      87,520      99,077    113,338    128,946    142,032    154,813    168,396
Mare sales                                        1,559       1,840       2,323       2,907       3,088       3,301       3,528      3,630       3,438       3,369
Powder sales                                     1.000       1,110       1,220       1,330       1.450       1,580       1.720       1,880       2.050       2,230
Cross revenue                           48,802      57,202      71,979      91,757    103,615    118,219    134,194    146,544    160,301    174,015
Variable expenses
Payments to growers 6/                          19,680      25,309      32,132      38,546      45,910      54,941      62,984      71,758      76,473      85,281
Flower ccllection costs 7/                       2,779       3,510       4,387       5,081       5,920       6,897       7,732       8,708       9,359      10,643
Processing costs 6/                              2.551       3,220       4,025       4.661       5.431       6,328       7.094       7,989       8.586       9,764
Sub-total                              25,010       36,039     40,544      48,288       57,261     68,166      77,810      88,455      94,418    105,688
Variable margin                         23,792      25,163      31,435     43,469       46,354     50,053      56,384      58,089      65,883      68,327
(as percent of revenue)                    (49)        (44)        (44)        (47)        (45)        (42)        (42)        (40)       (41)        (39)
Non-variable expenses
Administration 8/                                9,764      10,955      12,180      13,276      14,471      15,773      17,193      18,740      20,427      22,265
Sales expenses                                   1,291       1,420       1,546       1,687       1,839       2,005       2,185       2,382       2,596       2,630
Depreciation                                     6,600       7,015       7,079       7,079       7,079       7,611       7,611       7,611       7,611       7,611
Manufacturing overhead                           4,400       4,840       5,276       5,750       6,268       6,832       7,447       8,117       8,848       9,644
Project related expenses: staff 9/                  ---         ---         ---        ---          ---        984       1,073       1,169       1,274       1,389
vehicle operations jO/                  2,376       2,614       2,849       3,105       3,385       3,689       4,021      4,383       4,778       5,208
building maintenance 11/                  ---         106         288         330         360         392         427         466         508        553
bulking centers, nurseries 12/             --         ---         --          ---          -        2,288       2.493       2,718      2,963       3,229
Sub-total                         24,431      21,950      29,220      32,055      33,402      39,574      42,447      45,586      49,005      52,729
Operating nargin                          (639)      3,213       2,215      11,414      12,952      10,474      13,937      12,503     16,878      15,598
(as percent of revenue)                    (-1)         (6)         (3)        (13)        (13)         (9)        (11)         (9)       (11)         (9)
Interest: on GOT loan                                 907      2,285       2,901        3,238       3,600      3,600       2 880       2,160       1,440         720
on TIB loan                              2,822       2,544       2,262       1,980       1,697       1,415      1,133          851        567         286
on overdraft 13/                         2,017       1,876       1,858       1,963        1,170        373      1.284          991         898         259
Sub-total                          5,746       6,705       7,021       7,181       6,467       5,388       5,297       4,002       2,905       1,265
Fre-tax income                                    (6,385)    (3,492)    (4,806)        4,233       6,485       5,086       8,640       8,501      13,973      14,333
Incomo   tax                                          ---         ---        ---       2,117       3,243       2,543       4,320       4,251       6,987       7,167
Net income                                         (6;385)    (3,492)    (4,806)       2,116       3,242       2,543       4,320       4,250       6,986       7,166
(As percenl: of revenue)                          (-13)        (-6)        (-7)        (2)         (3)         (2)         (3)         (3)         (4)         (4)
(As percent of net worth)                         (-17)        (-9)       (-12)        (5)         (6)         (5)         (7)         (7)        (10)         (9)
1/ In current prices assuming annual inflation rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent thereafter.
2/ On the basis of para. 2.22.
3/ On the basis of Table T-2,
41 On the basis of Table T-22.
5/ On the basis of Table T-29.
6/ On the basis of para. 8.02.
71 Including transport costs and the costs of bags.
8/ Costs of administration increase by 2 percent annually in real terms through 1984/85 and remain constant thereafter.
9/ Costs of local extension and HQ staff included in Project costs through 1984/85; thereafter met by TPB.  Costs give in Table T-23.
10/ Costs of operating the 4 WD vehicles and motor cycles purchased under the Project. Costs of operating trucks covered unier flower collection costs.
11/ On the basis of 2 percent per asnum for the offices, houses and stores constructed under the Project.
12/ The cost of operating bulking centers and village nurseries assumed met by TPR after 1984/85.
13/ At an annuLal interest rate of 10 percent.
February 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Pro jected TPB "With-Pro ject" Balance Sheets 1/
PY1            PY2             EY3           PY4          PY5          PY6         PY7       PY8           PY9          PYIO
1980/81        19811/82        1982/83        1983/84     1984/85      198586    1              987/88    1988,/89      1989/90
--------------------------------------------------(FiRures in Tsh'OOO)---------------------------------------------
Assets                                                       68,138         67,253           70,844        66,598       59,519       52,440      52,698     45,087      37,476        29,865
Fixed assets at start of year                             5,715         10,606           2,833           ---          ---        7,869         ---         ---         ---          ---
Additions  2     e                                       73,853         77,859          73,677        66,598       59,519       60,309      52,698      45,087      37,476       29,865
Fixed assets at end of year                               6,600          7,015            7,079         7,079        7,079        7,611      7,611       7,611       7,611         7,611
Less: Depreciation                                       67,253         70,844          66,598        59,519       56,440       52,698      45,087      37,476      29,865       22,254
Net fixed assets p12,525                                                21 039          30.133        36,813       44,029       44.029      44.029      44.029      44.029       440.29
Development Fxpenditure 3/                               79,778         91,883          96,731        96,332       96,469       96,727      89,116      81,505      72,894       66,283
Net Long-term assets
Current Assets
Small inventories,tools                                     374            411             449           489          533           581        633         690         752          820
Stocks, empty bags                                        1,587          1,746           1,903         2,074        2,261        2,464       2,686       2,928       3,192        3,479
Debtors, repayments                                       7,062          7,062           7,062          7,062       7,062        7,062       7,062       7,062       7,062        7,062
Working cash balances                                     4,076          4,484           4,887          5,327       5,828        6,329       6,898       7,519       8,196        8,933
Cash reserves                                                                                                                                                   ---_1293
Sub-Total                                        13,099         13,703          14,301         14,952       15,684       16,436     17,279      18,199      19,202       21,587
Less: Current liabilities
Creditors, accrued charges                         1,759           1,759           1,759         1,759        1,759        1,759       1,759       1,759       1,759        1,759
Provision for taxation                                ---..--                        ---         2,117        3,243        2,543       4,320      4,250       6,987         7,167
Overdrafts                                         18,759         18,580          19,625        11,704        3,729       12,836       9,911       8,981       2.591          ---
Sub-rotal                                        20,518         20,339          21,384         15,580        8,731      17,138      15,990      14,990      11,337         8,926
Net working capital                                      (7,419)        (6,636)         (7,083)          (628)      6,953          (702)     1,289       3,209       7,865       12,661
Total net assets                                   72,359          85,247          89,648        95,704      103,422       96,025      90,405     84,714      81,759        78,944
Liabilities
Long-term loans - TIB  4/                                24,700         21,960          19,220        16,480       13,740       11,000       8,260       5,520       2,780          --
- GOT 5/                                 9,072         22,846          29,005        32,380       36,003       28,803      21,603      14,402       7,201          ---
Net worth
Initial GOT grant                                         1,560          1,560           1,560         1,560        1,560        1,560       1,560       1,560       1,560        1,560
GOT grant for Project  6/                                 9,168         14,514          20,282        23,587       27,180       27,180      27,180      27,180      27,180       27,180
Accumulated iocome                                      (11,974)       (15,466)        (20,252)      (18,136)    (14,894)    (12,351)    (8,031)    (3,781)          3,205       10,371
Capital grants                                           39,833         39,833          39,833        39,833       39,833       39,833      39,833      39,833      39,833       39,833
Total net worth                                   38,587         40,441          41,423        46,844       53,679       56,222      60,542      64,792      71,778       78,944
Total net worth plus liabilities                             72,359         85,247          89,648        95,704      103,422       96,025      90,405      84,714      81,759       78,944
Long-term debt/net worth ratio                                47'53          53:47           54:46         51:49        48:52        41:59       33:67       24:76       12:88        0:100
Current asset/current liability ratio                         0.7:1          0.7:1           0.7:1          1.0:1       1.8:1        1.0:1       1.1:1       1.2:        1.7:1        2,4:1
1/   On the basis of annual inflation rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent thereafter
2/   Includes the buildings and vehicles financed under the Project.
i/   Expenditure under the Project on all items excluding buildings and vehicles.
4/   Two loans from TIB to finance the construction of the Mafinga extraction plant.  One loan is for Tshs 8.6 million, repayable over 10
years at a 10 percent annual interest rate. The second is for Tsh 8.9 million, repayable over 11 years (with one year of grace) at an annual interest rate of 11 percent.                            t s
|/   A loan from GOT under the Project for strengthening TPB. The loan is at an annual interest rate of 10 percent, and is for ten years, including five years of grace on repayment                      0'
of the principal.                                                                                                                                                                                 H -
6/   To finance smallholder development under the Project.
February 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Project TPB 'With-Project' Cash Flow 1/
PYI        PY2         FY3        FY4         FY5         FY6         FY7         FY8        FY9         FY10
Cash Inflow                                          1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
GOT grant 2/                                        9,168       5,346       5,768       3,305       3,593         ---        ---         ---         ---          ---
GOT loan 3/                                         9,072      13,774       6,159       3,375      3,623         ---         ---         ---         ---          ---
Net income                                          (6,385)    (3,492)    (4,806)       2,116      3,242       2,543       4,320       4,250       6,986        7,166
Depreciation                                         6,600      7,015       7,079       7,079       7,079      7,611       7,611       7,611       7,611        7,611
Cash from TECO 4/                                   4537-
Tax provision                                          ---_--_--                        2,117      3,243       2,4         4,2        4,251       6,987         7,6
Total cash inflow                          22,992      22,643      14,200     17,992      20,780      12,697     16,251      16,112      21,584       21,944
Cash Outflow
Expenditure on Pro4ect 5/                           18,240     19,120      11,927       6,680       7,216      7,869         ---         ---         ---          ---
Repayment of GOT loan                                  ---        ---         ---         ---         ---      7,200       7,200       7,201       7,201       7,201
Repayment of TIB loan                                2,740      2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740      2,740       2,740       2,740       2,740        2,780
Increase in current assets                            598         604         598         651        732         752         843         920      1,003        1,092  X
Payment of taxation                                   --_-- __ _                        -          2,117       3,243       2,543      4,320       4,251        6,987
Total cash outflow                         21,578       22,464    15,265      10,071      12,805      21,804     13,326      15,181      15,195       18,060
Net cash inflow (outflow)                   1,414         179       1,065      7,921       7,975      (9,107)      2,925         931      6,389        3,884
Cumulative net cash inflow (outf.x\)        1,414       1,593         528      8,449      16,424       7,317     10,242      11,173      17,562       21,446
1/ In current prices assuming annual inflation rates of 11 percent in '980; IC percent in 1981 a,od 9
percent thereafter
2/ GOT grant (through the Development Budget) to TPB for implementation of the Project's smallholder
production component.
3/ GOT loan for implementation of the Project's component to strengthen TPB.  Loan is repayable over
10 years, with 5 years of grace, at an annual interest rate of 10 percent.
4/ Accumulated TECO net income transferred to TPB after closing of Arusha processing plant.                            
5/ Includes Tsh 7.9 million in 1985/86 for replacement of venicles purchased under the Project.
bu  x
February 23, 1980M



TANZANIA
PYRETWRMI PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return and R           tR                        ente 2/
PY 1       PT 2        PY 3      Pn  4       PY 5       PY 6        Pn  7       Pn  8      Pn  9       Pt 10      PY 11       n  12      P  13      Py 14      pn  15       pT 16      PY 17       PT 18       Pn  19     PY 20
Inere-eetul Net Renef it
Inflow
Net cash inflow from  operations 2/             (2,988)        738     (2,160)      (616)    3,256          909       4,193      6,920    10,313        7,024       8,669      8,669       8,669      8,669      8,669       8,669       8,669       8,669      8,669       8,669
utflow
Increase ie gross  fixed assets 2/              10,336      12,345      6,905    4,640        4,831       2,880         ---         ---        ---         ---      2,880                                           ---      2,880---                  ---         ---
Nee be-ofitt  before fi-ancing                 (13.324)  (11,607)   (9,065)  (5,256)   (1,575)   (1,971)    4,193                6,970    10,313         7.024      5,288      8,669       8,669     8,669       8,669       5,799       8,669       8,669      8,669       8,669
Leeg-tere loses received b/                         7,196      8,149       2,916     2,475       2,475                     ---        ---         ---        ---         ---        ---         ---       ---         ---
Repsyi.e.t of long-toer  loans 4/                     ---         ---        ---        ---        ---    (3,404)   (3,123)   (2,865)   (2,629)   (2,412)               ---         ---         ---       ----       ----                                     --
Ireoeeotol iteroest puy-ennt   /                     (717)   (1,467)   (1,638)  (1,750)    (1,853)   (1,702)   (1,253)               (861)       (527)      (242)       ---         ---         ---                   ----
Net benefits after finaecitg                     (6,845)   (4,937)   (7,787)  (4,531)           (953)   (7,077)        (183)    3,194        7,157      4,370       5,789      8,669       8,669     8,669       8,669       5,789       8,669       8,669      8,669       8,669
Finaecial Role of Reetre: 9% _/
Reate oeequity:             11% 6/
1./ le eoelut 19888 pit-.
2/ The differe-ee belseece net io-eo    pre-tCe pIes depreciarion  io the 'with-Project  aed the  oitboet-PtojOct& aittatioo,  deflated to
..e eust 1998 price.
2/ The differoec-  bet.en.  greee fiord assots if  Ihl  w.ith-Project' aed 'eithbut-Projeet' titsatioe, deflated to o-stuet 1980 prices.
4/ Defloted to cosutant 1980 prites.
5/ Rute of return on  eet benefite before finaecies.
/ Rate of return ee set b-nofite after flnaecie.8



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Government Cash Flow (1/)
PYI        PY2         PY3         PY4         PY5         PY6         PY7         PY8         PY9          PYIO        PYII
1980/81    1981/82    1982183    1983/84    1985 /85    1985186            /87    1987/88    1988/89    199/90             9
----------------------------  I___ -----------------  ---- -------(Figures      in    Tslh    '000) ------------------------------
Cash Inflow
IDA Credit Disbursements                        2,490      19,090      19,920      19,920      15,770       5,810         ---         ---         ---
TPB interest payments                             907       2,285       2,901       3,238       3,600       3,600       2,880       2,160       1,440         720         ---
TPB loani repayments                              ---         ---         ---                     ---       7,200       7,200       7,201       7,201       7,201         ---
Incremental export duties on extract 2/           ---           7          28          59          82         109         152         194         208         207         243
Incremental income tax from TPD 3/                ---        (182)    (1,727)    (3,690)         (724)    (2,187)         787       2,989       6,464       5,373       7,017
Total cash inflow                      3,397      21,200      21,122      19,527      18,728      14,532      11,019      12,544      15,313      13,501       7,260
Cash Outflow
Loan to TPB                                     9,072      13,774       6,159       3,375       3,623         ---         ---                     ---         ---         ---
Grants for Project implementation              23,890      16,251      14,139      12,207       6,870         ---         ---         ---         ---         ----
Maintenance of feeder roads 4/                    ---         ---         ---         ---       1,730       1,890       2,060       2,250       2,450       2,671       2,911
Continuation of research program 5/               ---         ---         ---         ---         ---       2,315       2,523       2,750       2,997       3,267       3,561
Service charge on IDA Credit                      ---          19         162         311         461         546         579         623         623         623         623
Total cash outflow                    32,962      30,014      20,460      15,893      12,684       4,751       5,162       5,623       6,070       6,561       7,095
Net cash inflow (outflow)            (29,565)    (8,814)         662       3,634       6,044       9,781       5,857       6,921       9,243       6,940         165
Cumulative cash inflow (outflow)   (29,565)   (38,379)   (37,717)    34,083    (28,039)   (18,258)   (12,401)             (5,480)      3,763      10,703      10,868
1/ In current prices, assuming annual inflation rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent in succeeding years.
2/ Assuming continuance of present duty rate of Tsh 2,200 per m ton.
3/ Difference between 'With-Project' and 'Without-Project' TPB income tax payments.
4/ Maintenance of feeder and access roads improved under the Project.
5/ Assumes maintenance of research program at its 1984/85 level.
February 23, 1980



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Inflows and Outflows 1/
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
-----------------------------------(Figures in Tsh '000).-------------------------------------------------
Inflow
IDA Credit                                         2,490     19,090       19,920      19,920      15,770        5,810          ---         ---         ---          ---
Export of pyrethrum marc 2/                          ---          90         373          796       1,035       1,284       1,821       2,365        2,469       2,556
Export of pyrethrum extract 2/                       ---       1,575       6,504      15,202      21,782       30,115      43,326      57,325       63,550      68,909
Total inflows                             2,490      20,755      26,797      35,918       38,587      37,209      45,147      59,690       66,019      71,465
Outflow
FE content of Project investments 3/             19,777       18,015      12,178       9,349        6,296       6,689          ---         ---         ---          ---
FE content of flower collection 4/                    47         194         410          552         721       1,074       1,462        1,609       1,667       1,724
FE content of flower processing 5/                   ---          62         246          522         887       1,322       1,799        1,979       2,050       2,122
FE content of vehicle operations 4/                1,544       1,712       1,886       2,055        2,240       2,442       2,662        2,901       3,163       3,447
FE content of road maintenance 6/                    ---         ---         ---          ---       7,136       7,778       8,478        9,241      10,072      10,979
IDA credit service payments                          ---          19         162         311          461         546         579          623         623         623
Total outflows                          21,368       20,002      14,882      12,789       17,741      19,851      14,980       16,353      17,575      18,925
Net inflow (outflow)                    (18,878)        753      11,915      23,129       20,846      17,358      30,167       43,337      48,444      52,540
Cumulative net inflow (outflow)         (18,878)   (18,125)      (6,210)    16,919        37,765      55,123      85,290    128,627    177,071    229,611
1/ In current terms, assuming annual inflation rates of 11 percent in 1980, 10 percent in 1981 and 9 percent in 1982.
2/ On the basis of incremental production as in Table T-22   and financial export prices as in Table T-29.
3/ Including replacement of Project-financed vehicles in 1985/86.
4/ On the basis of an FE content of 65%.
5/ On the basis of an FE content of 80%/.
61 On the basis of an FE content of 79%.
February 23, 1980
o:



TANZANIA
PYRETHRUM PROJECT
Price Structure for Extract and Marc Exports 1/
1980181-183/84                    1984185                    1985186                       1986187                      1987/88                  1988/89 onwards
Financial  Economic 2/   Financial  Economic 2/   Financial  Economic 2/   Financial  Economic 2/   Financial  Economic 2/   Financial  Economic 2/
1. Crude Extract (25%,)
FOB Dar-es-Salaam (Tsh '000 per m ton) 3/               391.2      565.3             371.6      537.0             353.0       510.1            335.3       484.5             318.6      460.4             302.6       437.3
Less: Wharfage 4/                                         3.1         3.1              3.0         3.0              2.8         2.8               2.7        2.7               2.6         2.6              2.4         2.4
Port handling/storage                              0.3        0.3               0.3        0.3               0.3         0.3              0.3         0.3               0.3         0.3              0.3         0.3
Transport,Mafinga-Dar 5/                           0.6        1.2               0.6         1.2              0.6         1.2              0.6         1.2               0.6         1.2              0.6         1.2
Clearing, forwarding 6/                            0.5        0.5               0.5         0.5              0.5         0.5               0.5        0.5               0.5         0.5              0.5         0.5
Export duty 7/                                     2.2      ---                 2.2      ---                 2.2       ---                 2.2      ---                 2.2      ---                 2.2       ---
Sub-total                               6.7         5.1              6.6         5.0               6.4        4.8               6.3         4.7              6.2         4.6               6.0         4.4
Net price, ex Mafinga                           384.5       560.2             365.0      532.0             346.6       505.3            329.0       479.8             312.4      455.8             296.6       432.9
2. Pvrcthrum Marc
FOB Dar-es-Salaam  (Tsh per m ton) 1/                1,602       2,315            1,545       2,233             1,468      2,121             1,395       2,016            1,325       1,915             1,259       1,819
Less: Wharfage                                           13         13                12         12                12          12               11          11                11          11               10          10
Port handling,storage,clearing 6/               145         145              145         145               145        145               145         145              145         145               145         145
Transport, Mafinga-Dar 5/                       600       1,207               600      1,276 600                    10007               600       1,20                600      1,207               600      1_207
Sub-total                             758      1,365               767      1,364               757       1,364               756      1,363               756      1,363                755      1,362
Net price, ex Mafings                           844         950              788         869               711         757              639         653              569         552               50          457
1/ In constant January 1980 prices
2/ On the basis of a shadow foreign exchange rate of Tsh ]2.00=US$1.00
3/ On the basis of prices as in para. 7.16.
4/ On the basis of 0.8 percent of FOB vaue.
_/ By road, with a foreign exchange content of 70 percent
6/ Including documentation, agency fee, etc.                                                                                                                                                                                   >
7/ At a flat  rate of Tsh 2,200 per m to,l of extract.
October 26, 1979



TANOANIOA
FT8ETHRUH PROJECT
Econoamic Analyvsis
FYI       PY2        PY3        PY4       Pn5        nY6        PY7        PY         PT        PY1O       PYll      FY12       PY13       FF14       PY15       PY16       FY17       FF18       FY19         PY20
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85        1985/86   1986/87 8 1987/88   1888/89   19890   1990/91   1991192   1992/83   1993/94   1994/9 5 1               995/96    1996897   197/98   1998/99   1999/2000
Unim-r-oed PlLntine Material Distribution
Rcoenoic Quite
Pro..ct inv:stments                                  1,468      1,188        679        ---       ---        ---        ---        ---        ---
Incremental flower collection costs                      86       301        523        523       500        523        437        199        ---
Incremental floer  trnosina costi                      ---         90        316        5949      549        525        549        459        209
Loin of naten pcuductlun                                655     1,470      2,240      2.263      2,285     2,285      2,285      1,598        733
Ltbor usi it pyreth-um production                       644     1.417      2,061      2,061     2,865      2,061      2,061      1,417        644
Inputne  in pyr-th.r. production                          9        21         30         30         30        30         30         21          9
Total conittcost                            2,862     4,407      5,849      5,426      5,429      5424      5,362      3.694      1,595
Pcowiuwic lenefito
Increnectul entract sales                              _--      1,540      5,422      9,411     8,938      8,115      8,061      6,399      2,762
Lnccenencal narc salon                                 _         ...~42      147        7       -55  233     194        179        124         47
Tota1 economic benfilts                        --.      1,582     5,569      9,666      9,171      8,309     8,236      6,523      2,809
Imnrnement of ma11holder -rod-ctio- cod TPB
Rcncntmc Quoste
llzeect  ononsLucoco                                19,690    18,584       5,729      5,359     5.359         ---       ---        ---        ---        ---        ---       ---        ---        ---        ---        -__        ---        --- ---  ---
Rcplacementu -s                                                              ---         --        ---     6,959         ---                  ---         ...     6,959             ---              ---        ---     6,959        ---        ---        ---         ---
Onccczncal fIerce ccllccci- o  coci                     ---        48        155        315        505        854     1,289      1,544      2,103      2,002     2,002      2,002      2,002      2,002      2,002      2,002      2,002      2,002      2,002      2,002
1-crenntal floe- procesaing coits                       ---       ---         50        169        131        530       897      19953      1,621      7,208      2,102     2,102      2,102      2,102      2,102      2.102      2.102      2,102      2,102      2,802
Veiclr cperatlo-                                    3,072      3,072      9,072      3,072      3,072     3,072      3,072      3,072      3,072      3,072      3,072     3,072      3,072      3,072      3.072      9,072      3,072      3,072      3,072      3,072
ullciicenters &4vilullennuricrin                        ----                                       ---     1,776      1,726        ---        ---        ---        _          -__        ---       ___        ---          -        ---        ---        ---
Yutensiuu staff                                           -        ---       -           . ---     ---        255       255        255        255        255        255       255        255        255        255        255        255        255        255        255
HQ staff                                                ---       ---        ---        ---        ---        374       374        374        374        374        374        374       374        374        374        374        374        374        374        374
luildigtwonaintenacc                                    --        113        281        293        293       293        293        293        293        293        293       293        293        293        293        293        293        293        293        293
Incremenral un-fern labur                                26       124        298        56t4   _ _ 902     1,315      1,847      283    ,2368          243       2,3        2.431         0       2,491      2431    2.431        2.431       2.431      2.431      2,431_
Tfucl c         -onomic cots               72,788    71,941    14,585        9,766    1 0,462    15,378       9,753     9,074    10,086    11,035    17,488    10,529    10,529    10,529    10,529    17,483    10,529    10,529    10,529    10,529
Ecunomic Benefiti
Tocremectal cotract nules                               --        309        811      3,373     8,035    14,151    22,223    30,850    35,000    37,546    44,602    44,602    44,602    44,602    44,602    44,602    44,602    44,602    44,602    44,602                   c
lncremcntal curt naler                               __-             2        19        81    _  135          191       281        359        357        383        487      4487        487        482        487        487        487        487        487        487
Tutu] econic benefits                          ___        911        030     5,454      0,170    14,342    72,904    31,209    95,957    37,929    45,089    45,089    45,089    85,089    45,089    45,089    45,009    45,09    49,089    45,09
Rued Conponent
Ecunonic Costa
Ro.d in opuco-ent cones                             10,278      5,647      5,729      5,826        --. ..       -        ---        - -       ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---       ---         ---        ---
Raud mateenanceesta                                                          316 ___30 853,      IU         J 1_1    .l.a111    ,_1.OL      1_117      1,11       1          1,117 101,817    ,_, 1 77,117     1.117    1.187   1_1    1.117             1_117     1   17
Total  -nmine     cccti                    10,278      5,647      6,045      6,679      1,117      1,117      1,117     1,117      1,117      1,117      1,117      1,117      1,117      1,117     1,117      1,117      1,117      1,117      1,117      1,117
Lueonoic Renet iti
Value of pyr:thrin: :ed..                               -                     770     2,229      7,764      2,797      2,870     2,953      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190      3,196      3,190      3,190      3,190
Maid co:t  -i9-s-TlB trafftc                            ---        ---        47        139        257        274        294        317        355       355        355        355        355        355        355        355        355        355        355        355
RicLdual calce nf hounrs   &eqcipent                                          --_  6.820_          ---                   --- _--                                                                     --_        --. _-
Total   nconemtc b2ncetir                      --_        -    _    _ 819    9,188      9,021      3,071      3,164      3,270      3,545     3,545      3,545      3,545      3,545                                                             3,54 5     323Y  T,545 373  ys~j
0noe11
Economic Teats
Unioproc-d plantiwg materiel                           2,862    4,407      5,849      5,426      5,425      5,424     5,362      3,694      1,595        ---        ---        ---        ---        ---        -.- 
Improcd of -nattheld-t pred-ctiwn & TPB              22,788   21.941    14,585        9,766    10,462    15,378       9,753      9,074    10,086    11,035    17,488    10,529    10,529    10,529    10,529    17,488    18,529    18,529    10,529    10,579
leads                                                 10.2 70    5,647     6,045     6_6)9      1_1 17      1.117     1.117      1,1 17    J,_544J7    1.117      1,117      1,117      1,117     1_ 117      i1.17     1_11   1 .1_I17       _1,117     1_17       1_117
TtaL1 economic  cons                         35,928   31,995    26,479    21,871    17,004    21,919    16,232    13,885    12,798    12,152    08,605    11,646    11,646    11,646    11,646    18,605    11,646    11,646    11,646    11,646
Econnmic Osnefits
Oncremectal1 retract ialoo                                      0~~ 1,849  7,003    15,013    19.737    25,063    33,154    40,202    40,952    40,736    47,792    47,792    47,792    47,792                   47,792     47,792    47,792    47,792    47,792    47,792
Inccsnce,rel marcusalen                                  ---       44        166        326        368        385       456        483        404        383        487        487        487        487       487        487        487         487       487        487
load wane cnt-aings                                                            47     6,959      2. 57        274    ..294         31l7       355        305        355        355        355        355        3535                  35         353535
Totalecenonri benefits                                  1,893      7,216    22,398    20,362    25,722    33,904    41,002    41,711    41,474    48,634    48,634    48,634    48,634    48.634    48,634    48.634    48,634    48,634    48,634
Febe-ary 24, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - j



-86-                               ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
PYRETRRUM PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports on the pyrethrum sub-sector
Al     Pyrethrum:  A Case Study of Industrial Location
R. Eastwood, for UNIDO 1977
A2     Pyrethrum:  The Natural Insecticide
J. E. Casida, 1973
A3     Pyrethrum Flowers
R. H. Nelson, 1975
A4     Pyrethrum in the Southern Highlands of Tanzania
C. B. Jespersen, 1974
A5     The Pyrethrum Ordnance and Amendments, 1960
A6     The Uyole Agricultural Center Establishment Order, 1976
A7     TPB.   Audited Accounts for year ending June 30, 1977
A8     Investigation into Financial and Operating Position of TPB
NDB of Kilimo, May 1979
A9     Report of Pyrethrum Research Program, UAC, 1977 and 1979
B.   Selected Reports on the Project
BI     Preparation Report
February 1979
B2     Report on the Costs of Collecting, Processing and Marketing
Pyrethrum in Tanzania
Cooper and Lybrand, July 1978
B3     Feeder Roads for the Pyrethrum Industry in the Southern
Highlands of Tanzania
John Burrow and Partners, 1979
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl     Pyrethrum Production in Tanzania
C2     Smallholder Production Component - Detailed Features



-87-                               ANNEX 2
Page 2
C3     Research Component - Detailed Features
C4     Strengthening TPB - Detailed Features
C5     Roads Component - Detailed Features
C6     Farm Labor and Budgets for Major Zones






__________   ______   _____   ___________   _______   ______________________________________                                                     I~~~~IPRD 4436
TANZANIA                                                                                                                        17
PYRETHRUM GROWING AREAS/
Pyerhrm growing aireais                                                                                             Koe Db
U Go-downs                                             /~
-   Trunk roads                     -
-I        ~~~Other roaids                                                              FCO                          Keeo
Railway ~     ~          ~          / 
--- International boundaries~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                          t5aone,o
i~~~~~~~~~~~Iedinnah5nsatce
G    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,/npv nrtnn/h
f  '\~~~~~y                   '9
_\e            M      LWt-                                                                                                                                       Tngninn                 oe
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,ph -p~ .  ,h
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ~   5
.ZAM5IA                                              KILOMETERS 9   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  20    09    49    09       ZAMBA          / kn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.  d d h
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  - /ny-n
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5Ap/
j                                                                                                                                            111d,-1   Ih, kg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ~~~~~~~_reSnen 






IBRD 14386
34 /TANZANIA                                                              i5                                                            AUGUST 1979
PYRETHRUM PROJECT                                               Kigango 0
PROPOSED PROJECT INVESTMENTS                                   -                                       - -,             I\I GA
Mbeya and Iringa Regions                                                              -       .
Internalional trunk road (Tan-Zam Highway)               .                                                                                e
-Other trunk roads
- /   /  Regional and local main roads
- District and feeder roads
-8          I               /                        -  - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads to be irmproved under project///f\                                                                                      
LI[ Jr/--r--Tazara Railway                                                    J
0 /    Airfields
K    Proposed TPB Offices
-i /~      (.   Proposed permanent buying centers
Proposed bulking centers
Regional boundaries ,
-*-*  International boundaries                               i-r
SeeoHilII
KILOMETERS 0        10       30      0     0 u         |- r ngr
MILES           ito       2e         3o-                                                     
o2r)__ _                                                        |      _     -    (0 ) g Kipangs
huny                                                                                                       J  ames Corner               /                                    _
-/--1-   9       V   ~Ntoekela0 goma      m -    lsuJng5oh   Lugoda             /            A1'> - \-t/                 \          (;            /1  R.,odo   >- k                           
b <f:: u j wi j 0 U ~N X \- .---~ I V / . A TA N ZAI A I nu
K           tinyri                                       Vyi                                                       0     A /--             or o  o tr ablSrrrW
yos     e 
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a g t                                       rL U L '  0             04 '   ;   1'1 ;Pt    S                             IOt    I< ,CA  NBftYSOA  loOt 
owa  )zumb    ap n a               -0 Fwe r                                                                                                                 , 'rta f
-   :  'u '  0     s       t  34-                                      Sv                  E             35.            <.f t f K-3ZLupIOt E 
anti    .         Or                           tei  .rt                                                                                                  \           A       I
Magoma~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  w
Th         OZMBOU



