CREDIT NUMBER 1007 TA
EOFFICIAL
DOCU MENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Pyrethrum Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      (9CtD      A,, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1007 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       (9'   K   a/           , 1980, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by Tanganyika
Pyrethrum Board (hereinafter called TPB) and Uyole Agricultural
Center (hereinafter called UAC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to each of them part of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NCW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "TPB Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and TPB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;


﻿-2-
(b) "UAC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and UAC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TPB pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "MOW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works or any
successor thereto;
(e) "RIMU" means the Roads Improvement and Maintenance
Unit to be established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03
(a) of this Agreement;
(f) "Kilimo" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture or
any successor thereto; and
(g) "Project Area" means the pyrethrum growing areas in
the highlands of the Iringa and Mbeya Regions of Southern Tan-
zania.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1990, and ending
March 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the
Project through RIMU with the assistance of MOW, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause UAC to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the UAC Project Agreement and TPB to perform in accord-
ance with the provisions of the TPB Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the provisions therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable UAC and TPB to perform such obligations,


﻿-4-
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) make available to TPB as equity funds the amounts
required for Part A of the Project; (ii) lend to TPB the funds
required for Part B of the Project under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and TPB on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association which shall include the
following: repayment in ten years inclusive of five years of
grace; interest at a rate of not less than ten per cent per annum;
and the Borrower to bear the foreign exchange risk; and (iii) make
available to UAC as a grant the funds required for Part C of the
Project.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist MOW and RIMU in the
improvement and maintenance of feeder roads, the Borrower shall,
after consultation with the Association, employ a qualified and
experienced roads engineer, construction supervisor and mechanical
supervisor by not later than March 31, 1981, or such other date as
the Association shall agree, whose terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) Any successors to the staff referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, employed during the execution of
Part D of the Project, shall be employed in accordance with the
provisions of said Section.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall not later than March
31, 1981, establish a roads improvement and maintenance unit which
shall operate under the administrative and technical supervision
of the Director of Roads and Aerodromes of MOW. RIMU shall be
operated by the staff referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement and such local and support staff as are adequate for the
implementation of Part D of the Project.
(b) RIMU shall carry out Part D of the Project by force
account and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause RIMU, after consulta-
tion with the Regional Development Directors of Mbeya and Iringa
Regions, to prepare and furnish to the Association for its
review and comment, not later than May 31, 1981, and thereafter,
not later than March 31 in each succeeding year until the comple-
tion of the Project, an annual work program covering the fiscal
year commencing on the following July 1. Each annual work program
shall set out the detailed proposals of RIMU for the carrying out
of Part D of the Project in the period to which it relates.
Section 3.05. Without any limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall make available to MOW and RIMU adequate funds for the
maintenance of all main and local roads used for the transporta-
tion of pyrethrum in the Project Area during the execution of
Part D of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association not later than March 31, 1984, or such later date as
the Association shall agree, proposals regarding the responsi-
bility for the continued maintenance of the Project roads.
Section 3.07. In order to maintain pyrethrum producer incen-
tives, the Borrower shall continue to review and adjust the
producer price of pyrethrum annually, taking into account the
export price thereof, TPB's costs for its operations and the
producer prices of other crops.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1982, cause Kilimo, TPB and the Mbeya and Iringa Regional Autho-
rities to review and discuss with the Association, the adequacy
of extension services for the Project Area including, inter alia,
the number of extension staff and arrangements for supervision of
village level staff, and if necessary, proposals for the improve-
ment of such services.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOW and RIMU to
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Part D of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause MOW and RIMU to maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of Part D of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
Part D of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accre-
dited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Part D of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Part D of the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause RIMU to prepare and furnish to TPB a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the TPB shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of Part D
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by MOW, RIMU and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part D of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower,
including RIMU, responsible for carrying out Part D of the Project
or any part thereof, including without limitation to the fore-
going, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account under
Category (6) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on the
basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained,
until two years after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall through MOW cause RIMU to: (i) have
the separate accounts referred to in the foregoing paragraph (a)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning such separate accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. After the completion of Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall continue to apply its increas,ed road mainte-
nance capability assisted and developed under the Project to


﻿-8-
maintenance of roads constructed or improved under the Project and
for development and maintenance of other feeder roads in the Mbeya
and Iringa Regions in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices, and shall promptly provide the funds required
for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall provide adequate funds
for the continuation of the pyrethrum research program expanded
under the Project, after the completion of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) TPB or UAC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the TPB Project Agreement or UAC Project Agree-
ment, respectively;
(b) the Borrower or TPB shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) the organization, powers or responsibilities of TPB or
UAC shall have been altered so as to affect materially and ad-
versely the execution of Parts A and B or Part C, respectively of
the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and TPB and UAC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the TPB Project Agreement on behalf
of TPB has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the UAC Project Agreement on behalf of
UAC has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary cor-
porate and governmental action;
(c) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and TPB, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(d) the Financial Controller referred to in Section 2.02 (a)
of the TPB Project Agreement shall have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the TPB Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by TPB, and is legally binding upon TPB in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the UAC Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by UAC, and is legally binding upon UAC in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and TPB, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and TPB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date s             a            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                   ) I
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    2,100,000        95%
(2)  (a) Vehicles under              950,000        100% of for-
Part C (6) of the                         eign expendi-
Project, road                             tures and
maintenance equip-                        85% of local
ment, materials                           expenditures
and spare parts
(b) Vehicles under              550,000        100% of for-
Parts A and B of                          eign expendi-
the Project                               tures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3) Drying facilities                250,000        100%
(4) Technical assistance,          3,000,000        100% of for-
consultant services                            eign expendi-
and training                                   tures and
85% of local
expenditures
(5) Salaries of incre-                              85% of local
mental staff to be                             expenditures
employed under:
(a) Section 2.02 (c)            150,000
of the TPB Project
Agreement; and
(b) Section 2.02(b) of           50,000
the UAC Project
Agreement


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Operation of RIMU                700,000        85% of local
expenditures
(7) Unallocated
2,250,000
TOTAL              10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(A) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(B) expenditures with respect to Category 2 (b) above,
until a study shall have been undertaken concerning


﻿- 14 -
TPB's transport management systems and until the
Association and TPB have agreed on the implementa-
tion of any recommendations made in connection with
such study; and
(C) expenditures with respect to Category (3) above,
until a study shall have been undertaken by the
consultants referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of the
TPB Project Agreement, to review the needs of
various areas in the Project Area and to assess the
economic viability of alternative methods of
drying in the light of the limited availability of
fuels and until the Association and TPB have agreed
on any recommendations and detailed proposals made
in connection with such study for the implementa-
tion of improved drying procedures.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) (A)
above, withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $140,000 may be made in respect of Category (4)
above, on account of payments made for such expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement but after February 15, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿- 15 -
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the smallholder pyrethrum
growers in the Project Area in the expansion of their output of
dried pyrethrum flowers and the raising of the cash incomes of
such growers. It consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Smallholder Pyrethrum Production
Expansion of smallholder pyrethrum production through:
(1) the production and distribution of improved and unim-
proved planting material;
(2) the provision of about 100 knapsack sprayers and a
supply of insecticide to be used for pest control;
(3) improvement of flower drying procedures;
(4) construction of about twelve 90m2 of buying centers
and stores, each with a capacity to stock about 25 tons
of flowers; the store to be located in Ndulamo would be
about 175m2 with a capacity to stock about 50 tons of
flowers;
(5) the expansion by TPB of its field staff; and
(6) provision of about twelve 7-ton trucks to be used for
the transportation of dried flowers, about five four-
wheel drive vehicles to be used for transportation of
planting material and about 22 motorcycles for use by
TPB's field staff.
Part B:   Strengthening of TPB
(1) Strengthening of the management and operations, plan-
ning, accounting and transport capabilities of TPB
through the provision of technical advisory services and
staff to TPB in inter alia, planning and management of
smallholder pyrethrum production, improvement of its
accounting system by the design and implementation of an
improved financial accounting, control and information
system, improvement of its transport management systems
and for the implementation of the Project.


﻿- 17 -
(2) Staff training both locally and overseas, in inter alia,
administration, finance, marketing and personnel and
factory management;
(3) The construction of new offices for TPB in Iringa,
Njombe, Makete and Mbeya and construction and furnishing
of about 25 houses for TPB senior, middle and junior
level staff;
(4) Provision of about 5 four-wheel drive vehicles for
use by the senior staff of TPB and for the implementa-
tion of the Project.
Part C:   Pyrethrum Research
Strengthening of UAC's pyrethrum research program through:
(1) the construction and equipping of laboratory and ancil-
lary facilities for a tissue-culture unit;
(2) establishment, including construction and equipping of
offstations in three locations (including Santilya in
Mbeya Region and Kitowo in Iringa Region);
(3) establishment and staffing of a special unit in the
Mafi*nga extract plant for the speedy analysis of flower
samples;
(4) provision of technical advisory services for research
and additional staff and training of UAC's research
staff;
(5) financing of the operating costs of the expanded re-
search program, including interchange of planting
material with other pyrethrum-producing countries and
visits to other pyrethrum producers by research staff;
and
(6) construction of about 6 houses and provision of one
four-wheel vehicle and about 6 motorcycles.
Part D:   District and Feeder Roads Improvement and Maintenance
(1) Establishment, staffing and financing of the operations
of RIMU.


﻿- 18 -
(2) Improvement and maintenance of about 204 kilometers
of district and feeder roads in the Project Area and
described in the Annex to this Schedule.
(3) The construction and repairing, where necessary, of
culverts and bridges.
(4) The provision of road maintenance equipment, spare
parts, tools and materials, and the construction of a
workshop in Mbeya, houses and a small office for use by
RIMU.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 19 -
ANNEX
Roads to be improved and maintained pursuant
to Part D (2) of the Project
Mbeya Region                                  Classification    Km
Group I:   Santilya-Ilembo                        District      13
Ilembo-Ibaba                           District      27
Access Road to Izombwe                 Feeder         6
Access Road to Masoko                  Feeder         7
Access Road to Mbagala                 Feeder         3
Access Road to Mbawi                   Feeder         4
Group II: Access Road to Mwela                    Feeder        10
Access Road to Nyalwella               Feeder         4
Access Road to Ngolo                   Feeder         8
Access Road to Ilungo-Manshese         Feeder        10
Sub-total                 92
Iringa Region
Group III: Access Road to Kinyike                 Feeder         6
Access Road to Mlondwe                 Feeder        10
Access Road to Lugonda                 Feeder         3
Group IV: Bulongwe-Kitulo                         District      45
Group V:   Jct.Ivilikingi-Kitulo                  District      23
Access Road to Ivilikingi              Feeder         8
Group VI: Mangoto-Ibaga                           Feeder        12
Group VII: Access Road to Mahenye Farm            Feeder         5
Sub-total                112
Total                    204


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower, TPB or UAC, as the
case may be, shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon
as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or prequal-
ification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower, TPB or UAC, as the case may be, shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Orders for vehicles, road equipment and spare parts shall be
bulked together in bidding packages to the maximum extent practi-
cable for the purposes of bidding and procurement.
4.   Suppliers of goods (including vehicles and road equipment) to
be procured in accordance with paragraph 1 above, will maintain an
adequate service organization in Tanzania, including a reasonable
inventory of spare parts.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other


﻿- 21 -
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tanzania equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 22 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles, road equipment and spare parts which
cannot be bulked in packages of $100,000 or more shall be procured
in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procedures, provided
that the aggregate amount of such contracts shall not exceed
$300,000.
2.   Contracts for (a) tools, sprayers, insecticides, fertilizers
and nematocides under Part A of the Project and (b) tires, fuel,
oils and materials and supplies for Part D of the Project, shall
be bulked to the maximum extent possible and may be procured in
accordance with the Borrower's applicable competitive bidding
procedures.
3.   Contracts for civil works under the Project may be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's applicable procedures, provided
however that, foreign contractors shall not be excluded from
bidding.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower, TPB or UAC, as
the case may be, shall furnish to the Association, for its com-
ments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications


﻿- 23 -
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by


﻿- 24 -
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


