REDIT NUMBER 1007 TA
Project Agreement
(Pyrethrum Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANGANYIKA PYRETHRUM BOARD
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1007 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          9 Q-        kA      , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and TANGANYIKA PYRETHRUM BOARD (hereinafter called
TPB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that TPB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TPB, a portion of the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to TPB on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS TPB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TPB shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist in strengthening TPB's
accounting and financial capabilities, TPB shall, after consulta-
tion with the Association, employ a qualified and experienced
Financial Controller, whose terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) In order to assist TPB in the planning, management and
implementation of Part A of the Project, TPB shall, after consul-
tation with the Association, employ by not later than November 30,
1980, or such later date as shall be agreed upon between TPB and
the Association, two qualified and experienced agronomists, one
as a Field Agronomist and the other as a Planning and Production
Agronomist, whose terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(c) In order to strengthen the staff of TPB, TPB shall
employ qualified and experienced persons for the positions of
Transport Officer, Cost Accountant, Internal Auditor, Planning
Officer, Statistical and Evaluation Officer, and Procurement
Officer.
(d) In order to assist in the improvement of TPB's transport
management systems, TPB shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(e) In order to assist in the improvement of flower-drying
techniques, TPB shall employ experts whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. TPB shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion for its review and comment not later than March 31 of each
year until the completion of the Project, an annual work program
covering the fiscal year commencing on the following July 1. Each
annual work program shall set out the detailed proposals of TPB
for the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project in the period
to which it relates.
Section 2.04. TPB shall, until the completion of the Project
and thereafter, continue the production and distribution to
farmers of improved planting materials.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. TPB shall establish a credit scheme pursuant to
which its staff may purchase motorcycles financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and shall make provision for the payment of
operating allowances to staff making purchases under such scheme.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for Parts
A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) TPB undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts A and B of
the Project and relent or made available to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by TPB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to Parts A and B of the Project and relent or made available
to TPB by the Borrower shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.08. (a) TPB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts A and B of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) TPB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in Parts A and B of the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
Parts A and B of the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning Parts A and B of the Project, its cost and,


﻿where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expend-
itures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TPB and the
Association, TPB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by TPB, UAC, MOW, RIMU and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the UAC Project Agreement, the TPB Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.
(d) TPB sb/all enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of TPB and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.09. TPB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, TPB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) TPB shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) The Association and TPB shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TPB of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.11. TPB shall, by not later than August 31, 1981,
or such later date as the Association shall agree, update its
accounts, design and begin the implementation of, an improved
financial accounting, control and information system.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TPB
Section 3.01. TPB shall carry out its undertakings under
the Project and shall conduct its affairs in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural, financial and technical practices,
under qualified and experienced management and staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. TPB shall operate and maintain, repair and
replace all vehicles, facilities and equipment financed under the
Credit in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices.
Section 3.03. TPB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. TPB shall ensure during the execution of the
Project that, the positions of Planning and Production Manager,
Iringa Regional Manager and Mbeya Regional Manager, shall continue
to be filled at all times by persons with appropriate qualifica-
tions and experience.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TPB shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A
and B of the Project, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account under
Category (5) (a) of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) TPB shall retain, until two years after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.


﻿- 6 -
(c) TPB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheet, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) and the separate accounts referred to in the
foregoing paragraph (a) for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning such separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of TPB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
TPB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TPB:
Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board
P. 0. Box 149
Iringa
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
PARETO
Dar es Salaam/Iringa
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TPB may be taken or executed by the
Chief Executive Officer of TPB or such other person or persons as
the Chief Executive Officer shall designate in writing, and TPB


﻿-8-
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                  is) \vXMJ lAQQ"x
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANGANYIKA PYRETHRUM BOARD
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 02.
FOR SECRETARY


