Docunient of
1FILE COPy                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No?D1945-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR THE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
November 23, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officils duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Guaranl                  US$
0 126.0           =      US$ 1.00
0   1.0           =      US$ 0.008
¢ 1 million       =      US$ 7,936.5
Measures
1 m                      1.09 yd.
1 m2              =      10.8 ft.2
1 Km              =       .62 mile
1 Km2             _       .39 mile2
1 ha              =      2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
RCLC    =   Rural Community Learning Centers
SNPP    =   Servicio Nacional de Promoci6n Profesional
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID   =   United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR THE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
and credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$8.0 million
and US$4.0 million respectively to the Republic of Paraguay, to help finance
the proposed Third Education Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 3-1/2 years of grace with interest rate at 8.7% per annum. The
credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest updating economic report for Paraguay (No. 899-PA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1975. The report evaluates
recent economic developments and provides an assessment of the medium- and
long-term prospects of the Paraguayan economy. An economic mission visited
the country in October/November 1976 and an updating report is being prepared.
The information provided below is based on the mission's findings. Country
data is presented in Annex I.
3.        Despite the handicap stemming from Paraguay's landlocked position
and the disadvantages inherent in the country's remoteness from the major
world markets, the Paraguayan economy achieved an overall real growth rate
of 4.6% per annum during the 1962-72 decade. This was accomplished in an
environment of monetary stability and balance-of-payments equilibrium, as
indicated by an average inflation rate of only 3% and the fixed dollar value
of the guarani during this period.
4.        Paraguay has enjoyed rapid economic growth since 1970 with GDP in-
creasing at an average annual rate of 6.5%, due principally to an expansion of
agricultural production. Agriculture is the main sector of the economy
accounting for about one-third of GDP and about 90% of export earnings (in-
cluding processed agricultural commodities) in 1975. Agricultural production
expanded at an annual rate of 6% during the 1973-75 period. This performance
represents a notable improvement over the 2.9% average growth rate expe-
rienced during 1962-72, when the increase in agricultural output barely kept
pace with population growth. The rise in external demand and favorable prices
were probably the most important factors in accelerating growth. However,
the effective supply response of Paraguayan agriculture was also made
possible due to a consistent effort on the part of the Government to improve
the country's transport infrastructure and implement a comprehensive set of
programs designed to increase and diversify exports, particularly of agricul-
tural and agroindustrial products.
5.        The good performance of agriculture during the 1973-75 period also
had favorable effects on Paraguay's income distribution. About two-thirds
of the total population lives in rural areas, and it has been estimated that
T his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
the average rural income is equivalent to only 28% of the average urban
income. This wide income disparity reflects Paraguay's rural structure where
over four-fifths of the farmers operate small farm units, in many cases at
the subsistence level. The recent increases in agricultural production,
however, have come from small- and medium-size farmers who have benefited from
the Government's efforts to colonize new lands and to provide more infrastruc-
ture and improve services to existing settlements (since 1960, 300 colonies
comprising nearly 900,000 ha have been established and have benefited one
out of every four agricultural workers). Moreover, rural wages have climbed
sharply as the increase in demand for agricultural labor has exceeded the
available labor supply in many areas.
6.        The adverse effects of the international economic situation on
the Paraguayan economy since 1974 has been surprisingly small. There was
a decline in economic growth from 8.3% in 1974 to 5% in 1975 and a possible
recovery of close to 7% in 1976. Inflation has been brought under control as
the rate of price increase has declined from 22% in 1974 to 8% in 1975 and may
decline to 6% in 1976. The rapid adjustment of the domestic economy to
external inflationary disequilibrium was achieved through a combination of
interrelated factors: (a) a strong world demand for Paraguayan exports other
than beef and good supply responses in agricultural commodities; (b) large
private capital inflows associated with oil exploration in the Chaco region,
new investment opportunities related to the construction of the large hydro-
electric power projects in the Parana, such as Itaipu and Yacyreta; invest-
ments in land, agroindustries, commercial banking, light and heavy industries
stimulated by the incentives provided to foreign investors; (c) the authorities
adherence to flexible price policies, allowing increases in oil, wheat and
meat prices to be entirely passed on to the consumer; and (d) an adoption of
monetary, fiscal and incomes policy designed to restrain the growth of con-
sumption.
7.        Despite a generally adverse external environment, Paraguay's
balance-of-payments situation has remained satisfactory. The country's
import bill rose by more than 50% since 1974, as the value of imports of
fuels and lubricants increased sixfold; those of wheat and wheat products,
threefold; and those of chemicals and pharmaceuticals more than doubled in
value. At the same time, foreign demand for beef fell off abruptly, follow-
ing the mid-1974 EEC decision to ban imports. As a result, the current
account deficit increased from US$15.9 million in 1973 to US$31.8 million in
1974. Notwithstanding these adverse developments, heavy foreign capital
inflows permitted Paraguay to record its largest balance-of-payments surplus
in history, US$42.3 million. During 1975 and possibly throughout 1976 export
performance kept pace with the general growth of the economy, even in the
presence of nontariff barriers to trade in wood and beef. Nontraditional
merchandise exports expanded very rapidly, particularly basic grains and
the purchases of Itaipu's binational authority. Even with a moderate increase
in imports, the current account deficit remained modest: US$21.8 million in
1975 and is likely to reach US$34.8 million in 1976. These were more than
compensated by a strong capital inflow, resulting in a gain in gross foreign



- 3 -
exchange reserves of US$30.5 million and an estimated US$35 million in 1975
and 1976, respectively. The level of reserves will probably reach US$152
million at the end of 1976, equivalent to five months of merchandise imports.
8.        Public sector savings performance was reasonable over 1974-75
(averaging about 3% of GDP). A reduction in tax revenues due to more liberal
tax exemptions for imports of capital and intermediate goods was accompanied
by a strong curtailment in the growth of current expenditures. In order
to counteract inflationary pressures caused by the rise in import and export
prices during this period, the government reduced overall public expenditures
and amortized a portion of the internal public debt.
9.        Despite the near-term difficulties being faced by the livestock
and forestry sectors, Paraguay's development prospects appear to be promising
over the medium to longer term. There exists a considerable potential for
further agricultural and agroindustrial growth based on extensive areas of
underutilized land suitable for agriculture, livestock and forestry, and
favorable market opportunities for a number of products in the neighboring
countries as well as the United States and Europe. In addition to agricul-
ture, the exploitation of the country's vast hydropower resources will provide
a plentiful source of cheap energy and foreign exchange earnings. The con-
struction of the two large hydroelectric projects, jointly with Brazil and
Argentina, will contribute to maintaining the growth of the economy. Total
expenditures in Paraguay for services and materials during the construction
stage (1975-84) are expected to average US$20 million (1974 dollars) per
year. Once the turbines are in operation (1984), total revenues to Paraguay
from the sale of power could reach US$37 million (1974 dollars), equivalent
to 18% of 1974 exports.
10.       The Government's development strategy of concentrating the growth
impulse in agriculture and agroindustries is consistent with the country's
objectives of accelerated economic growth. Government policy continues to
give high priority to land colonization and to the provision of transport
infrastructure in order to facilitate the flow of goods to markets and export
outlets. The Government is implementing programs designed to assist farmers
in land settlement areas to increase productivity and output. In the case
of small farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization
schemes and on the establishment of new ones (only 12% of Paraguay's arable
land is presently under cultivation). Through foreign private investment and
credit programs, the Government hopes to accelerate the process of agro-
industrialization. The results to date indicate the soundness of this approach;
real per capita income increased by 30% during 1967-75.
11.       The Government's strategy of fostering economic growth on the basis
of the intensive exploitation of the country's comparative advantage in agri-
culture and hydropower is also likely to succeed in spreading the benefits
of growth. Paraguay does not have a high level of unemployment, but under-
employment appears to be high--the International Labor Organization estimates
that underemployment affects 53% of the labor force. The unemployment problem



- 4 -
has not been severe, partly because emigration to neighboring Argentina has
served as a safety valve. With the acceleration of economic growth, new
employment opportunities have been created and underemployment has been
ameliorated, particularly in agriculture, where daily wages have increased
considerably during 1972-75. The recent high growth rates of the economy,
however, have been associated with technological changes which have changed
the nature of the manpower requirements of the economy.
12.       The achievement of a relatively high GDP growth rate during the
coming years is feasible but will require an intensified investment effort
in both the private and public sectors. Direct foreign private investment has
increased sharply in recent years and should continue in the future in view of
the sound economic policies being pursued by the Government and the favorable
medium- and longer-term prospects for the agriculture and power sectors. The
Government's intentions to increase the level of public investment in agri-
culture and transportation is also consonant with the future investment needs.
The Government is already working, with the assistance of OAS and AID, on
improving the country's tax structure and on making tax revenues more elastic
to increases in income to help assure the availability of increased domestic
resources to finance the public investment effort.
13.       To attain a 7-8% GDP growth rate during the 1976-80 period, the
country will need inflows of external assistance totaling US$650 million.
A portion of this amount will need to be in the form of relatively quick-
disbursing commitments of financial and suppliers' credits. Moreover, to
cover fully the external capital requirements of the economy, foreign
lenders will need to finance an appreciable proportion of the local expen-
diture costs of the projects in which they participate. Since Paraguay in
the past has obtained the bulk of its capital needs on concessionary terms
and, as a result, its present debt service ratio is low by international
standards, the country's creditworthiness is not expected to be impaired by
additional borrowing of the estimated magnitude.
14.       Paraguay's outstanding and disbursed external public and publicly
guaranteed debt repayable in foreign currency was US$200 million at the end
of 1975 and it is projected to reach US$240 million at the end of 1976,
equivalent to about 15% of GDP. While during the last five years external
public debt grew at an average rate of 10% per annum, during 1975 and most of
1976 it increased at a much faster pace due to several large loans. The
public debt service ratio, which was close to 8% of GDP in 1974, is likely to
reach to 15% in 1976, due to a combination of hardening of terms and greater
capital requirements. The debt service ratio is expected to stabilize at
12-13% in the late seventies, assuming that some concessionary funds will
continue to be forthcoming, thereby preventing an undue hardening of
Paraguay's overall borrowing terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
15.       Paraguay has received US$91.8 million (net of cancellations) in
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$50.3 million has been in the



-5-
form of nine IBRD loans, and seven credits totalling US$41.5 million have
been made from IDA resources. As of September 30, 1976, the Bank held US$43.5
million, including US$23.2 million undisbursed, and IDA US$41.0 million,
including US$16.8 million, undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank Group
at the end of 1975 was equivalent to 20.1% of Paraguay's external debt, with
a blend of about 45% IDA and 55% IBRD. The service on this debt amounted
to 8.0% of total debt service in 1975, representing about 1% of exports of
goods and nonfactor services. The growing strength of the Paraguayan economy
has diminished the need for external financing on highly concessionary terms
and the proposed IDA Credit would be the last one to Paraguay.
16.       IFC has had only one operation in Paraguay.   In 1974, it financed
a wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, -S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, and equity participation of
US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of
US$0.4 million. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of September 30, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Execution of Bank Group-financed projects has, on the whole, been
satisfactory.
17.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY76 consisted of loans for
preinvestment studies and vocational training, totalling US$8.0 million. In
addition to the proposed Third Education Project, we plan to submit to the
Board during the next several months an Agroindustrial Credit Project and
a Rural Development Project. In addition, work is under way on highway
maintenance and construction, and domestic airports projects for possible
consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
18.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives which are interdependent and comple-
mentary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second objective is to help Paraguay expand output, including
exports, by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contri-
butions to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs
that will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, partic-
ularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial inter-
mediaries. A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient external resources
to complement Paraguay's domestic savings and provide the necessary funds for
maintaining an adequate level of economic and social investments in a frame-
work of sound domestic finances and a viable balance of payments.
19.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of the
Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its compo-
sition. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends listed
and may, moreover, support more specific government objectives. Thus, Bank
Group assistance for education and rural development is designed to help
ease the rural poverty problem and to improve the educational standards of
the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. In this connection, the



- 6 -
proposed project will help reduce the imbalance between rural and urban
educational opportunities and increase the productivity of the rural
population. Bank Group lending for agroindustry is aimed at increasing
the value added of agricultural products destined for export and at
expanding marketing outlets for small farmers. Lastly, loans in the
transport sectors are designed to transfer resources to Paraguay and
to help improve institutional structures and policies of the sector, which
play a vital role in supporting the production activities of the agri-
cultural and industrial sectors.
PART III - EDUCATION IN PARAGUAY
Educational Implications of the Country's Development Strategy
20.       Paraguay is predominantly a rural society with two-thirds of its
2.4 million population living in rural areas. This distribution of the popu-
lation puts a heavy burden on the educational system in rural areas to keep
pace with the demand for agricultural workers. The number of primary school
graduates entering the agricultural sector will have to increase from about
15% to 40% per year. The rural education system is presently not in a
position to satisfy such requirements. The majority of the rural schools
(about 87%) offer fewer than six grades of primary education,. and only 17%
of the children enrolled in first grade complete primary education, as
compared with more than 45% in urban areas.
21.       Although there is a relatively large number of rural schools (about
3,000), few provide adequate opportunities for a complete education. The
lack of textbooks and teaching materials, and the fact that curricula are often
irrelevant, contribute to this situation, resulting in high dropout and repeti-
tion rates. The development of the country's vast hydroelectric resources
with the neighboring countries of Argentina and Brazil and the construction
of new roads such as those from Asuncion to Hernandarias and from Asuncion to
Encarnacion are beginning to affect the migration patterns in Paraguay with
increased concentration of population in those provinces where development
projects are under way. This places a heavy burden on the Government to
develop the educational resources in those areas. The Government of Paraguay
recognizes this situation and has given high priority to the strengthen-
ing of rural education. The Government's programs in this field aim at,
first, equalizing educational opportunities between cities and rural areas;
and second, at orienting the educational system more directly towards the
objective of more efficient agricultural production methods.
Overview of the Education System
22.       The formal education and training system of Paraguay is handicapped
by structural imbalances and qualitative deficiencies. In the past the
Government has consistently underspent on education--only 13% of the total
public expenditures in 1975, or about US$11 per capita--which is low compared



- 7 -
with other countries at similar per capita income levels. Moreover, the impact
of government spending on education is impaired by the low efficiency of the
system. In 1974 about 82% of the 7-12 year age group was enrolled in primary
schools, but only 34% of the total enrollment was in the grade corresponding
to age. In addition to the 7-12 year age group, about 100,000 overage stu-
dents (13 years old and over) were enrolled in primary schools as a result of
high repetition rates and late entry. High dropout and repetition rates
are reflected in completion rates of only 26% at the primary level and 41%
at the secondary level. These figures imply that roughly 40% of annual ope-
rating expenditures is spent on those who fail to complete their studies
within the expected period.
23.       Primary school enrollment has increased at the rate of 2.8% per year
over the past ten years, which is slightly higher than the 2.6% rate of popu-
lation growth. Nevertheless, the opportunities that the rural population has
to obtain a full six-grade primary education are severely limited. Only 36%
of those entering grade 1 reach grade 4 (the minimum literacy level); and only
17% complete all six primary grades. These figures do not reflect a lack of
motivation on the part of either parents or children, but rather an insuffi-
cient number of rural schools which offer complete primary education, relevant
curricula, basic teaching materials and equipment. Moreover, most rural
teachers need upgrading, since the majority of them (about 70%) have teaching
certificates but have not been trained to work in a rural environment. As a
result, these teachers have limited effectiveness in dealing with rural chil-
dren who have broad experience in agriculture but limited familiarity with
urban life. Rural teachers are also largely unsupervised and lack information
about new educational trends.
24.       Regarding the secondary level, the coverage of the education system
is even lower. Despite the fact that secondary school enrollment has increased
by 8.3% per year during the past 10 years, it still represents only 17% of the
relevant age group population, which is low by South American standards. The
private school system accounts for 38% of the secondary school enrollment;
students at this level come primarily from wealthier families. Furthermore,
the secondary education system is directed principally towards urban children
(46% of total enrollment is in Asuncion alone) and should be expanded and
improved in semirural areas.
25.       The Government is achieving important improvements in the rural
education system through various projects under execution. The basic objec-
tives of the Government's education policy, set out in the 1969-80 Educa-
tion Development Plan, are to increase educational opportunities at the
primary and secondary levels and to improve the quality of educational pro-
grams and adapt them to the needs of the expanding economy. A reform program
is being implemented at the basic education level (grades 1 to 9), consisting
of the development of new curricula, production of new textbooks, and the
construction of primary schools, regional education centers and teacher train-
ing facilities. In furtherance of this effort, the proposed Bank Group



-8-
financing would support the Government's education strategy by establishing
areas educativas, which consist of well-equipped community centers surrounded
by associated schools that will apply innovative curricula, have upgraded
teachers, and new and more relevant teaching materials. The areas educativas
will also have a more effective, decentralized system of supervision.
26.       The structure and content of secondary education are also being
reformed through the first IDA education project (Credit 347-PA). The multi-
lateral school concept is being introduced to offer practical options at the
lower secondary level and technical courses at the higher level. Although
the schools in that project are not yet operational, the strategy being
implemented should result in a major improvement in the relevance of second-
ary education within the next few years. In addition, IDB is participating
in the development of secondary agricultural education and, together with
the IDA project, graduation of students from job-oriented courses will more
than double.
27.       Women play an important role in Paraguay's education sector.     The
enrollment of girls in preprimary education represents 51% of the total; in
primary education, 47%; in lower secondary, 48%; and in upper secondary, 54%.
Women enrolled in teacher training courses represent up to 90% of the total,
and at the university level the enrollment of women is about 42% of the total.
In addition, adult education programs are designed to assist women in improv-
ing their standards of living by means of literacy courses and training geared
toward increasing their productivity and access to cash income.
Nonformal Education and Training
28.       The Government's policy toward the education sector gives high
priority to the development of vocational training for both urban and rural
populations in order to meet the expected demand for qualified manpower
in the growing sectors of the economy. A three stage, ten year plan for
the development of vocational training was prepared by the Ministry of Justice
and Labor in 1970. The plan aimed at establishing a national infrastructure
for vocational training through the construction of strategically located
regional centers from which mobile action programs could be organized. This
strategy is being implemented with the support of a Bank-financed project
(Loan 1252 T-PA).
29.       At present most nonformal education and training programs are
offered in major cities. Literacy courses administered by the Ministries
of Education, Interior and Defense are mainly available to the urban popula-
tion, even though illiteracy is more acute in rural areas. Moreover, agri-
cultural extension services are limited to farmers who produce cash crops.
To strengthen the basic education and nonformal system in the rural areas, the
Government plans to establish the proposed rural community learning centers
where formal primary education and nonformal basic education and vocational
training would be provided.



- 9 -
Bank Group's Role in Education and Training
30.       The basic objective of Bank Group lending to the education sector
in Paraguay is to support the Government's efforts to expand the availability
of formal and nonformal education throughout the country and to improve its
quality by making it more relevant to the manpower requirements of the economy.
The first Bank Group education project (Credit 347-PA) is a key component of
Paraguay's overall educational reform program and was designed to assist the
Government in developing a more effective system of secondary and vocational
education. The implementation of this project is proceeding in a satisfactory
manner. Construction of the first phase schools is completed and equipment
and furniture are being installed. The second project (Loan 1252 T-PA) which
became effective on August 26, 1976, was designed to meet Paraguay's urgent
need for nonformal vocational training programs throughout the country.
The proposed project represents a continuation of the Bank Group's effort in
the sector and would assist the Government in extending educational opportuni-
ties to the rural population. In this manner the proposed project also comple-
ments the vocational training and rural development projects by providing
regional centers that service mobile facilities and rural schools that train
youth in new settlements.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       An education sector analysis was carried out by the Education
Planning Office of the Ministry of Education in August 1975 and revised in
September 1975 with assistance provided by the Bank. A Bank reconnaissance
mission visited Paraguay in October 1975 to discuss the content of a possible
third education project with the Government. In November! December of the
same year the Government prepared the project with UNESCO assistance, and in
April 1976 the project was appraised by a Bank mission. Negotiations were
held in Washington from October 29 to November 5, 1976. The Paraguayan
delegation was led by Dr. Epifanio Salcedo.
Objectives and Composition
32.       The proposed education project would assist the Government in
the implementation of its education policies and programs set out in the
1969/80 Education Development Plan. In particular, it would support the
Government's efforts to improve and extend educational opportunities in rural
areas and semirural towns, thereby complementing its investment efforts in
the rural sector. It would also help improve the quality and efficiency of
the education system by increasing the production of textbooks and teaching
materials, upgrading teachers and supervisors and strengthening educational
administration. Specifically, the project would:
(i) establish 83 rural community learning centers, offering
primary education to about 30,000 school-age children and
nonformal basic education and training to about 20,000 out-
of-school youths and adults;



- 10 -
(ii)  support rural communities in the completion of construction
of 77 primary schools for 18,000 students by supplying
essential building materials and technical assistance;
(iii)  provide functional buildings and equipment for workshops
and laboratories for five lower secondary schools (grades 7
to 9) for 2,400 students;
(iv)  expand two existing multilateral secondary schools with
workshops and laboratories to cater to 1,800 students and
to supply complementary equipment for workshops and labora-
tories for three schools being constructed under the IDA-
financed First Education Project;
(v)  provide in-service training for about 2,700 teachers, head-
masters and supervisors of project institutions;
(vi)  print 10 textbooks and related teaching guides for grades
5 and 6 in rural schools (about 300,000 books);
(vii)  strengthen the administration of various departments
in the Ministry of Education;
(viii)  assist the Ministry of Education in completing an
education facilities survey and a school map;
(ix)  assist the Government in carrying out a study on bilingual
education; and
(x)  provide related technical assistance comprising eight
man/years of specialist services and 27 man/years of
fellowships for training abroad.
33.       Rural Community Learning Centers.    Programs in the rural community
learning centers (RCLC) would include (a) formal primary education, (b) accel-
erated primary education, (c) functional literacy courses, (d) nonformal train-
ing, and (e) seminars for teachers in surrounding rural schools. Children from
small communities within 5 km of an RCLC, where only the first four grades were
offered, could complete their primary education (grades 5 and 6) at the RCLC.
The total enrollment in each RCLC would vary from 240 to 480, depending on the
population being served in the area.
34.       New curricula designed to meet rural social, economic and geo-
graphic needs have been developed with USAID and UNESCO support.    The major
characteristic would be to increase the students' role in the learning process
by requiring them to work on small farms or in workshops, laboratories or school
libraries. The curricula concentrate on three main areas: social life and
communications; nature, health and work; and mathematics. The implementation
of these new curricula would rest on the teachers in rural areas who would need
to be trained and receive instructions in new teaching techniques. The proposed



- 11 -
project encourages the upgrading of teachers and provides opportunities to learn
new teaching techniques through in-service teacher training courses. No shortage
of qualified teachers willing to work in rural areas is expected because of the
various incentives provided by the Government, including double salary for
working two shifts, incentive allowances for teaching in frontier or isolated
areas, and credits toward salary increases for having attended upgrading
courses, participated in community development activities and multigrade
teaching. To ensure the smooth and efficient implementation of the new curri-
cula and to improve the quality of rural teaching, assurances were obtained
from the Government that all project schools would (a) by March 1, 1978, imple-
ment the revised curricula and (b) appoint to project schools only qualified
teachers who had benefited from the upgrading courses. (Sections 4.02 and
4.03 of the Credit Agreement.)
35.       In the past, school supervisors who lived primarily in the capitals
of Departments were responsible for about 125 schools, and because of the lack
of per diem and transportation could supervise only a few schools a year.
Under the project, directors of RCLCs would be the technical and administra-
tive supervisors of their own centers and of eight to ten associated rural
schools. This decentralization would enable RCLC directors to visit the
schools in their district about twice a month. The project would finance
about 40 motorcycles to facilitate their transportation. To ensure that ade-
quate supervision would be provided by RCLC directors, the Government gave
assurances that by March 1, 1979, it would establish the new decentralized
school supervision system and that all RCLC directors would have attended
special training courses for regional supervisors. (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of
the Credit Agreement.)
36.       Accelerated primary education for about 6,000 out of school and
overage rural youths would also be provided annually at the RCLCs. Although
the curricula content is similar to that of regular schooling, it takes into
consideration experience, maturity, interest and working commitment of the par-
ticular group of pupils. Teachers charged with carrying out the accelerated
primary education program would require additional training, which would be
provided under the project.
37.       Nonformal education and training courses for about 14,000 rural
adults would be offered annually by ten RCLCs located in populated rural
communities and colonization areas. This effort would complement the Bank-
financed Vocational Training Project (Loan 1252 T-PA), which is helping
strengthen the Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP), an agency
in the Ministry of Justice and Labor responsible for carrying out the coun-
try's vocational training programs. Under the proposed project the RCLCs
would provide workshops, classrooms and service facilities for the mobile
action programs provided under the Vocational Training Project. To provide
quality training to the rural adult population being served by the ten RCLCs,
the Government gave assurances that it would appoint only qualified teachers
who had received training in adult nonformal education. (Section 4.05
of the Credit Agreement.)



- 12 -
38.       Associated Rural Primary Schools.   As a result of past community
action, 77 rural primary schools were initiated but not completed because of
inadequate program planning and execution. These schools will have a
capacity of 18,000 children and will be of the same standards, in terms of
architectural designs and materials, as other project institutions. The
project will provide the necessary building materials to complete construction,
as well as equipment, educational materials and technical assistance to make
these schools operational. The associated schools are located within the
vicinity of each RCLC and the directors of these centers would supervise them.
The schools would provide a minimum of four grades of education (grades 1 to
4) so that children could complete their primary education (grades 5 and 6) at
RCLCs.
39.       Lower Secondary Schools.   The project would support the Government's
policy of extending secondary educational opportunities to semirural areas as
a basis for improving the productivity of lower income groups. Specifically,
this project item would comprise the construction, furnishing and equipping
of five lower secondary schools in the semirural towns of Belem, Loreto,
Independencia, Dr. J. M. Frutos, and Capitan Miranda. Each school would have
a capacity of 240 student places and would replace and expand existing unsuit-
able accommodations. The project schools, working in two shifts, would enroll
about 2,400 students when in full operation by 1981. The curricula would
include prevocational subjects (industrial, agricultural, and home economics)
to better prepare students for further specialization or work. Students
completing the courses in the lower secondary schools could further their
education in the multilateral secondary schools being constructed under
the IDA-financed first education project, in the regional education centers
established with USAID assistance, or in the multilateral secondary schools
which would be expanded and equipped under this project.
40.       Multilateral Secondary Schools.   The project would finance the
construction, furnishing and equipping of workshops and laboratories for two
existing multilateral secondary schools (grades 7 to 12) at Luque and Pilar.
The project would expand the capacity of these schools from 400 to 600 student
places each, and would also provide revised curricula, including practical
courses.
41.       The project would also finance the procurement of additional equip-
ment for a multilateral and a secondary technical school and a vocational train-
ing center being constructed under the IDA-financed first education project
(Credit 347-PA) to enable the implementation of new curricula for the tech-
nical streams recently designed by the Ministry of Education with the support
of international consultants. This equipment would be primarily for mechani-
cal, electrical and refrigeration workshops and some specialized laboratories.
42.       Upgrading Courses for School Supervisors, Directors and Teachers.
The project would include funds to assist the Institute of Higher Education
and Regional Education Centers in carrying out a comprehensive upgrading
program for about 2,700 teachers, school directors and supervisors of project
institutions. About 20 departmental supervisors of primary schools and about



- 13 -
100 directors of RCLCs would receive a two-month course on school supervision
techniques, on the use of teaching aids, on rural development programs being
implemented or planned and on a system of collecting education statistics.
43..      Production of Textbooks.   The Ministry of Education has already print-
ed about 500,000 textbooks for the first four grades of rural primary schools.
Under the project, the Ministry (through its Department of Textbook Production)
would be able to supply about 300,000 textbooks for grades 5 and 6 of primary
rural education, 20,000 teachers' guides and 5,000 textbooks and teachers'
guides for adult basic education. Production of the textbooks would be in
accordance with the government policy of charging parents the cost of materials
plus an estimated three-year price increase contingency in order to create a
revolving fund for reprints and to continue financing salaries and other
expenses of textbook production. The textbooks would cover the main subject
areas (Communication/Spanish, Mathematics, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences
and Health) in the curricula for rural schools. A team of 30 teachers,
educators and draftsmen, trained under a USAID program, is writing the texts
which will be printed by local, private firms. Distribution would be
through RCLCs in small villages and the Internal Revenue Office, which has
agencies all over the country. The cost of producing teachers' guides would
be absorbed by the Ministry of Education.
44.       Improvement of Central Education Administration.   To strengthen
their efficiency of operations, the project would finance the purchase of
essential equipment and furniture to the Ministry of Education departments.
Related technical assistance and fellowships would be provided under the
technical assistance component.
45.       School Mapping.   The project would finance the purchase of equipment
for completing a school mapping program. Related technical assistance would
be provided under the technical assistance component. The program would
update national, regional and local targets for the various levels of the
education system. The Government gave assurances that, to achieve this goal,
it would establish within three months after the effectiveness of the Loan/
Credit Agreement a central coordinating committee composed of the Director
General of Education and the Directors of Education Planning, Primary,
Secondary and Technical Education, and School Construction; and that within
three months thereafter it would prepare draft terms of reference and a
schedule, acceptable to Bank/IDA, for completing the school map (Section
3.04 of the Credit Agreement).
46.       Bilingual Study.   The project would finance a bilingual study to
help the Government formulate a workable linguistic policy to use in rural
education and training programs, taking into consideration that both Guarani
and Spanish are the official languages. The study would be executed by the
Directorate General of Education through its education research unit.
47.       Technical Assistance.   Technical assistance provided under the
project is designed to supplement assistance being provided by bilateral
and multilateral sources and would include: (a) eight man/years of specialist
services in: (i) education financing and statistics; (ii) student evaluation



- 14 -
systems; (iii) management planning and position classification; (iv) financing
and auditing textbook production programs; (v) industrial arts teacher train-
ing; (vi) school mapping; and (vii) architectural design and construction
supervision; and (b) 27 man/years of fellowships for (i) about 12 central
administration staff and (ii) 40 technical teachers. The cost of technical
assistance is estimated at US$45,000 per man/year of specialist services and
US$10,000 per man/year of fellowships. The Government gave assurances that
all specialists and fellowship recipients would be acceptable to the Bank
Group and appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group.
Suitable counterpart personnel would be provided to work with the specialists;
and appropriate arrangements for the placement of the recipients of the
fellowship program would be made. (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement.)
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.4 million, net
of taxes, including physical contingencies of US$1.2 million and price contin-
gencies of US$3.2 million. Bank Group financing of US$12 million would cover
69% of of the total project cost, including all of the foreign exchange cost,
estimated at US$6.2 million, and US$5.8 million of the local cost, estimated
at US$11.2 million. Local cost financing of this order is justified in
Paraguay for the reasons referred to in para. 13. The Government has agreed
to make sufficient and timely budgetary allocations to meet the estimated
annual requirement for counterpart funds to implement the project and to
regularly review with the Bank the amounts needed for this purpose.
49.       In 1981, when the project is expected to be fully operational, the
recurrent expenditures caused by the project would amount to US$0.5 million
annually. These expenditures are relatively low due to the fact that a
large portion of the schools substitute for existing schools that are already
staffed. These additional costs would not impose an undue burden on the
financial capacity of the Government, since they represent only 1.5% of the
projected recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of Education for 1981.
Project Implementation
50.       The project unit in the Ministry of Education which was established
under the first education project (Credit 347-PA) would be responsible
for executing the proposed project. Key staff have been appointed and project
implementation of Credit 347-PA has been proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
No major additional burden is expected to be placed on the existing staff as a
result of the proposed project, as the majority of project schools (Credit
347-PA) are already under construction. To cope with the expanded workload of
architectural briefs and design and supervision of civil works under the pro-
posed project, the project unit has recruited one additional civil engineer.
To assist the project unit in the efficient and timely execution of the proj-
ect, a comprehensive implementation schedule has been prepared and agreed
upon by the Government and the Bank Group. The project unit would use this
schedule for purposes of monitoring and implementing the project. For complet-
ing the construction of associated primary schools, the Department of School
Ccnstruce-on in the Ministry of Education would have primary responsibility



- 15 -
Construction in the Ministry of Education would have primary responsibility
under the overall supervision of the project unit. Sites for 80% of the
project schools have already been acquired and are suitable. The remaining
20% are expected to be either donated or easily purchased by the Government,
as project schools are in rural areas where land is available. Assurances
were obtained from the Government that, in principle, any remaining sites
still to be identified would be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable
to the Bank Group (Section 3.07 of the Credit Agreement). The project unit
would also be responsible for adequate maintenance of project facilities and
the Government gave assurances that it would allocate funds for adequate
maintenance and repair of buildings, equipment and furniture provided under
the project (Section 4.07 of the Credit Agreement).
51.       Project evaluation would be made by the existing evaluation unit
within the Education Planning Department of the Ministry of Education. This
unit would be strengthened by the project through technical assistance and
training abroad of key local staff.
Procurement and Disbursements
52.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group. Since the civil works are of small size (averag-
ing US$90,000) and at scattered locations, foreign contractors are not expected
to participate but they would not be precluded from bidding. Contracts
for the procurement of furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines,
except that furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped into packages of at
least US$50,000 or more would be procured on the basis of local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group. It is estimated that procurement under these
procedures would not in the aggregate exceed 15% of the cost of furniture and
equipment, or about US$400,000. Domestic equipment and furniture manufac-
turers tendering under international competitive bidding procedures would be
allowed a preferential margin equal to the prevailing tariff or 15% of the
c.i.f. cost of competitive imports, whichever were lower.
53.       The proposed loan/credit would be disbursed over a five-year period
as follows: (a) 60% of the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 85% of the cost of locally procured equipment, furniture, and the
cost of materials for completing construction of associated rural primary
schools; and (c) 100% of expenditures on technical assistance, fellowships,
upgrading teacher training courses, school mapping, and the bilingual study.
Disbursements from the loan would take place after the credit had been fully
disbursed or committed.
54.       Retroactive financing not exceeding US$100,000 is proposed for
payments made after June 1, 1976, to cover the starting-up costs for timely
execution of the project. The financing would cover expenses for survey of
local materials, labor availability for school construction, site survey and
school design.



- 16 -
Conclusions
55.       The improvement and expansion of Paraguay's rural education activ-
ities through the proposed project are expected to yield significant benefits
to the rural population. By helping educate the rural population at the pri-
mary and secondary levels, the proposed project would contribute to increasing
the future employment and earning opportunities among the lowest groups on
the income scale. Moreover, by educating the population in those areas where
colonization schemes are under way, the project would also contribute to
meeting the Government's objective of doubling rural family incomes within
ten years. As a result, about 46,000 children, or 20% of the rural 7-12 age
group, would benefit from the provision of rural community learning centers
and associated rural primary schools. The completion of associated schools
under the project is an economic approach to community self-help, encouraging
the participation of parents and teachers in completing schools that they began
to construct but failed to complete because of lack of resources. About 2,000
rural teachers, equivalent to 90% of the unqualified rural teachers, would re-
ceive upgrading courses. Every student in rural primary schools would have a
textbook in each of the main study areas, in contrast to the present situation,
where only a few grade 1-4 and no grade 5-6 students have textbooks. In
addition, about 100 directors of rural community learning centers would be
trained in school supervision techniques and would be provided with trans-
portation to inspect associated schools more frequently.
56.       About 8,000 secondary school students (10% of national enrollment)
would benefit from the lower secondary schools to be built and equipped under
the project. About 250 directors, teachers and supervisors would receive up-
grading courses to enable them to implement the diversified curricula and to
use the new teaching aids and equipment provided. Through the provision of
technical assistance, the project would also contribute to the improvement of
national education planning, financing and administration. In addition the
education sector would benefit from the bilingual study included in the
project, which is expected to result in firm recommendations concerning the
impact of the Guarani language on teaching in rural schools.
57.       No major risks are foreseen.   As mentioned earlier (para. 34), the
shortage of qualified teachers willing to teach in rural areas which often
occurs in developing countries is not expected to develop in Paraguay. Re-
vised curricula for primary education are already being implemented in some
rural schools and should present no serious difficulties in project schools.
Additional recurrent expenditures for operating project schools would be mini-
mal since no substantial increase in the number of teachers would be required
because the majority of the project schools will involVe replacement of
present buildings in bad condition, whose teachers would be transferred to
the new buildings. Architectural designs for project schools are being
financed under the Preinvestment Studies Project (Credit 587-PA) and are
based on available local construction materials and labor. Some delay in
project execution leading to higher project costs could occur if major cost
overruns on the large hydroelectric and infrastructure projects under execu-
tion in Paraguay were to materialize and the Government had to reduce other
budgetary expenditures to help meet the overruns.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between Republic of Paraguay and the Bank,
the draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and
the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of IDA, and the two draft resolutions approving the proposed devel-
opment credit and loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
59.       The special conditions of the project referred to in part IV above
are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 23, 1976






TABLE 3A                                     1 of 4 pa
PARAGUAY            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM21                     -----------------------------
---------------                                PARAGUAY                           REFERENCE COLUNTRIES I i9701
TOTAL      406.8                                     MOST PECENT
AGRIC.     161.5                      1960      1970   ESTIMATE          HONDURAS      EL SALVAOOR    COSTA RICAe
GNP PER CAPITA IUSS)                   220.0     3SC.C      57°.°              250.0      300.0      560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
PCPULATICN (M1I-YR. VILLICNI           1.7       2.2        2.6               2.5         3.4        1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       4.0       6.0        6.0              22.0      160.0        34.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         ..        ..       15.0                ..         ..       106.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE l/THOU)          44.7      41.8       39.8              51.5        46.i       41.1
AVEPAGE DEATH RATE 4/THOU)          14.7      10.8       8.9               19.1        14.3        8.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE l/THOU)                 93.8      81 O/b                        66.6        62.0
LIFE FXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)                59.0       62. 0             49.4        51b.9      65.4
GROSS PEPRODUCTION RATE                .       3.2        3.2               3.4          ..        3.4
PGPULATICN GROWTH RATF (T)
TOTAL                                2.2*      2.5'      2.7                2.7         3.5        3.3
UPEAN                                3.0        3.4       3.1               7.9         3.9        4.7
URBAN PnPULATION It OF TOTAL)         36.C      36.0       37 0              32.0        39.0       46.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PEPCENT)
C 10 t4 YEAPS                      45.9 a    46.4      44.9               46.7       46.2        49.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      50.2 a    50.4       51.1              50.9       50.4        48.0
65 YEARS AND OVFR                    3.9 9     3.2        4.0               2.4         3.4        3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.0       1.0       L.OLa              1.0         1.0        1.1
ECCNCFIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7        1.6       I.5                .5A/b       ..        1.6/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTnOS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..        ..       15.9              20.7         ..        35.5
USERS (Y OF MARRIED WCMEN)            ..        ..         ..
FMFLOCYMENT
TOTAL LABCR FOPCE (THCUSAND)         550.C     700.0      810-0             800.0         .-       540.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (t)        56.C      53.0       49.0              65.0         ..        43.0
UNEPPLOYED (t CF LABOR FORCE)           ..        ..        3.5               8.0          ..5.1
INCOME tISTRIBUTICN
* OF PRIVATE INCOME PEC Q HY-
HIGHEST S5 OF HOUSFHOLDS              ..      30.0         *-              28.0/c       ..        23.0
HIGHFST 20t OF HUUSEHOLDS             ..      62.C         *-              60.6 Z        ..       50.4
LCWFST  20t QF HOUSEHOLCS             ..       4.0         *-               2.5         ..         5.4
L0wEST  401 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..               8.4          ..       14.6
DISTRIBUTION CF LAND CWNERSHIP
Y OWNED BY TnP 10 nF OWNERS            ..        ..         ..
1 CwNEn BY S4ALLEST ICY OlWNERS         ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTPITIltN
POPULATION PEE PHYSICIAN                ..    2340.04    219o.0o           3710.0d    4030.0      1630.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..    2310.0a    2090 3.0z             ..      960.0      1690.0
POPULATIEN PEP HOSPITAL BFD          430.0J    620.0     6l0.0:o            570.0      520.0       250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY nF -
CALCOIES (t OF REQUIREMENTS)       112.C     121.0      119.0L             96.0        87.0      110.0
PROTEIN (GRA4S PER DAY)             76.C      74.0       73.0 C           58.0       43.0        63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        40. 0/    41.0         ..              25.0       10.0        35.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..       6.9        3.2Lo            10.0         7.0        6.0
EDUCATICN
AOJLSTE FfNROLLMENT RATIC
PRIRARY SCHnOL                      101.0     107.0     107.0 /a           86.0       78.0       106.0
SECCNnARY SCHOOL                    10.0      17 .0      17.0 j            10.0       23.0        28.0
YEARS nO SCHOOLING PPOVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO LEVEL)            12.0      12.0      12.0               12.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATInNAL ENROLLMENT
(t OF SECONDARY)                     7.C       6.0       6 a               18.0       31.u        10.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE 13)                 ..      79.0       81.0                ..        58.0       89.0
HOUS ING
PERSCONS PER QOOM (AVEPAGE)            2.6/ad     ..         ..                ..         ..         I.I
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATEQ (1)                     94.0/a      ..         ..                ..       84.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(t OF ALL DWELLINGS)                13.0        ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (t)                   1.2/a      ..        ..
CCNSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        83.0       71.0      68.0              57.0        85.0       71.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THCU POP)          2.0       1.C        7.0               5.0        6. 0       23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          55.0      91.0      106.0             127.0       190.0      591.0
NEWSPRINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)              C.7       1.7        1.8               1.1        3.7         6.4
SEE__NOTES __AND _DEFINITIONS ___ON   -E ----R -  --- ____________________________   - __________________________--  ___
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITICNS CN REVERSE



BOIfl                                         L~~~~~~~~~~ags 2 of Ia Pugee
tiless otherteae ntotd, data for 1960 refer to azi year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, end for tsNo             atItit         ewe
1973 aNd 1975.
aue to algroation, the growth rate is lower than the aote of natur,al inci'eafl.
55Coet&eEnshae boen selected ase an objective country since it bee similar resource bees and population asiz as Paraguay, end has atteanod such
higher taendard. of socil1 devalapinct and ecsonoic groth.
PAS&03L!        j26      La  1962;    /b   Including asdical cmters;       /c  1961-631     £4  Totel, urban and rural.
1970     /a  Coverae of data untlaown.
MOST MCDI ISTlMATZs        /a  Including cidwves;l     £    19721    La   197;;j   /d   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
total labor force.
HONDURAS                 /a  Lergayr due to emigration since 1969 of SI Salvadoreos resident in Honduras, population growth rate is lower than the
rate of natural increase;      /b  bUni of population under 15 and 65 and -ovr to total labor force;          ac  1967-68
populatian;     £d  Rgi4stered, not all practicing in the country.
COSTA RICd      1970     La  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         &b  Open unseployseot.
RB, sept. 29, 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SOICIAL INDITCATOIRS
Land Area ithsu ks2)                                                                Posoitrnrigperson - Population divided by somber of prosticieg
fTal.1   Total surfac  cti,isr     nlad a- a-d inland waters,ml                             odfml gradua.te nuse, "'trained" or 'certified" -urse.- -nd
logris.. Moot resset estimante of agri-sit-rs    area used tempurorily or             susiliory personnel with training or esperiesce.
permanently fur crops, pastures, mother h bitches gsrdees or to lie              Pseolotime__ee lissettol bed - Population divided by som,ber of hospital bedo
in1- I ow                                                                           vailable is 1poblis and pri,nte generai sod spesislised hsplisL1 snd
rehabilitation centers; e..elodes earsing (miss and e,trsht,in-tset fur
iNP sertpp.vtr (01) - CliP per Capita estevotes at su,rrest market pri-eo.            o,sutudil sod preventive sore.
rolnuloted by uses -c-nrio n.vthud aso World Basnk Atlas (1973-75                Cecptsspiyfasts,(                   froinut)           -Cepsted from energy
b-os), 196i. 1970 und 1975 data.                                                   equivalent of set food suPPlies a.'aiLshe1 iv sussiry pot capita per day.
availahie supplies comprise dcm-esiC predoetion, imports les s eapurts.
Poeslstion and vital usttistiso                                                       and shasg-s Is otacb; net supplies e-cide snins1 feed,..seds. qs...ti-
Poeslation (mid-yr. emillion) - As of July first:    If eot available,                ties sued ie feud process.ing and loose    in d,.stribstion;rqieet
s     L..f  o   la ,ed-year estl-res, 196i. 197i and 1975 dats.              were estimated by PAO based on physiological needs fur -urmI activity
P.p.l.ti- d ... ity - p-  q..r. la~~~~                          and health sonsiderlug e     irsntolteperature. bedy weights, age and
Peclaton  ensty  tir suar  us- Mid-yeer Ppoplation per squ.ar bile-          ... distribution   uf population, s-id sil1oing 10%. fur adore at boone-
mter (lii liectareso) of rural s,ca.                                              hanl I leel..
Pocplactos densoity - per osar    t  of arcn   lend - Computed on abuve fur        Par eser.ta osnly uf yrti       &Ov    e   i) - Peotein r.ootent of per
agrisu1ltro1 land -miy.                                                            caPita net supply of food per day; net supply of feud is defined 5
ahv,requirements for all   .nincries nstsbliebed by "SDA tEo-sie
vital statistiss                                                                      ivue..re1, Snrviceo prov,ide fur a amman aloac         f 60 grass of total
Crude birth, rate per rhscsnd - Aesuol liv     births per tbssuond of t,id-           protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which
Year PePsIsti-s; tee-year arith-etis -avrages ending in 196i and 1970,             10 grams ehsud lie animal pretein; these at     -arnoe Il.wer thae these
and fiv-yea    avrage ending in 1975 fur mus t recent eotianste.                   of 75 grams of total protein and 23 groms of animal preteis as as
Crude death rate per theusand - Annual deaths per theussed of      id-year             averge for the world, prapesed sly fAl' in the. Third werld Ford lur-ey
pepslotien, ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end 197i, aed           Peril(ggggg,yp.y.pn                nvkotale           -tperin -,ppy ,rffs,
five-year overge endieg in 1971 fer most retes.t estimate,                         derived fromanial     and pulios in grains p- doy.
lufanL mertality rate f/thon) - geosa1 deaths of ifantsL under see year of          Dlealbt-tr '/thaul  gage  1-4 - AnnualI deaths per thuosned in age grasp
eopr Ibmnan    liebirths.                                                       1-4o yoacs, to children in this age greup; suggested as an indleatur ef
Lifeecpetost'at  irth(yro) - Average somber of yearn of life remaining          -sl-tritiom.
at birth, 'lousIly five-year averogeo ending on 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
de-olpini -ccerrien.                                                             Ed ...tiss
Cress repraduetien rate - Average somber of lIve daughters       amwne will         Adi..t.d enrollmest ratio - primary school - tuE-Im.Lonef all agno 55
bear in her normal reproductive period if she e-petiensce     present age-         por-evroge of primary -eh-o-age pepuILtiss, includes children aged
opsc-iss fertility rates; usually iive-year averages ending in 1960,              h-il years but adjoated fur liffer-'t leo1thbofc prtn-ry edocatio..
1970 and 1971 for deveepfiug coun tries,                                           fur esontries with uni vursal educa.tion, sere4lmet nay e...eed 1117.
Pop,lart-n grewth rote (7.) - total - Compoun.d sn.o-1 growth rates of mid-           since none papiln are below ye shbve rh.oefficisl ochuel age.
year pepulation fur 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                Adj,csste4d orgL  n  ratio - seesnda.,,Qche1 - Computed as .abve;
Ppeps1atle  growth rate (.-orban. -Cnps,ted lobe growth rate of total                 secoandary education requires at least feor yesar, of epps,-ed prionriy
'sopoloti-n; different defusities ef urban areas nay affert conpara-                lnstrustion ; preeldes general, voratisa1 ur teocher training
hitiry of data ameng ...uetrien.                                                   lestr-etions fer puipils of 12 te 17 yearn af    ao, casr-opandeae
1rban Vovpclsti-o (. uf rtotl) - Rasis of arbss to total popalation,                  seurse   are generally e..eluded.
different definitions of urban areas may affect     omparshility of data          er    fshsl.poie             (first sed second le-ol;    - Total yoars of
neug    .. conrueS.                                                                schooling ; at secondary level, vc,sarifel i-to:to         ys he pa.r-
Ace sr:,-tror  ipercenrt) - Children (0-14 years), inerbing-age (15-64 years).         tisily at cosnpletely eucluded.
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year pepulatien         . vsetioaajlqKqljj,,l,,s           rndr)- Vec-tio-ssl institutions
Ace dpenedeney caneo - Rlatie of pupulation a-der 15 and 65 and over to               isu.lude tecbnical, induotrial or ether pr-grans     hcb operate
these of ages iS through 64.                                                       independently or as depa,rtanent  of secondary institution..
ic...omic dependency ratio - gatie ci population under 15 and 65 and over           Adult literacy rateS?,). - Literate adults (able te read aad write) as
is the labo'r frce is age grasp 15-64 years.                                       percentage of total adult pupulation aged 15 years end ever.
Family plann.ing - aeee.ptrns (-omsltive,th-al - Cmulative somber of
acceptors of birth-control devices andnr aus pices ef eatiomal fenily            k'aiing~
plansiog program since inception.                                                Persons eer room (average) - Average nomber of persons pot room in
Family planning - osers (. of married wome) - Persentages ef married                   ccuepiud eunventional dwellings ie orbas areas; dwellings eselude
women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-controi devices             non-p.-maent structures anod u.assapied parts.
is all married women in name age group.                                          Occupied dwellings withbont piped water_(?,) - Oceuptod convestional
dwellings in urban and rural areas withouit inside or outside piped
Eimplovoent                                                                           water facilities as percentage of alt sevapied dw-l1ings.
Teta1 loabr fume. (tbomnandl - Economically activa persons, including               Access to elcrct        (.o    l   deiigj - Cunveotimna1 dwellings
amed forces and onenpleyed but encl.ding heusewives, students, etc.;                with electricity in living quarters an percent ef total dwellingn in
defisiti... in varieo.cutre        are notcsomparable.                             urban and rural areas.
LaIbor force in ngriuturt-   (1-Agricu1tora1 labor inree (in farming,              RPuta dw,ellings _~so  ected toeetily(2-Ceiputed so above for
ferestry, hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor farce,                 rural dweallings only.
Inonployed (7, of labor force) - gUempleyed are usually defined as pereson
wh.oare able and willing to take    Jajb, e-t uf a jeb on a given day,           Consomptiom
rema ined ont of a Jeb, and seeking wsrk ferc sepecified minimum period          gadL._e reciler  (per thou pop) - All types of receivers fer radio broad-
net   nseeading one week; may not be comparable between coontries due to           easts te goneral psiblic per thoasaud of populuti.n; e-eldes
different definitions of anemployed and sosrce of data, e.g., moplay-              onmigeend receivers in enuntries and in years when registration of
ment offico statistics, sample snrvyo, compulsory unoployment insucance.           radie sets uss is effect, data for rnes..t years may not be comparable
s.ince nest cou ntries abolished licensing.
Income dintribstion - percentage of private incme (beth in cash and kind)           Paseger ears -(per thou pep) - passenger cars comprise muter ears
received by richest 57., richest 207., p-urest 20%, and peerest 40% ef             seating less than eight persomo; e..clsdeu a.,abalnsces   hearsen and
households.                                                                        nilitary vahinls.a
El-ctrisity (hkh/er e_rqKg_f - Annual comooptiss of industrial, com-
Distribution of laed ow,nership - percentages of laed snned by wealthiest             inercial, public and private electricity in kile'a-t herar per capita,
10% and poorest 107. of laud owners.                                               ganerally based so production data, witheut allowance for lens.es in
g,rida hut allowing fur imports and esports of electricity.
gealth and nutrition                                                                Nlewsprint (kg/yr set cap) - Per capita annual censioption in kilsgra'ss
Peplatom  er  hyol ciao - Popalation divided by nomber uf practicing              estimated from  domestic prnduction plus net imports of newsprint.
physicians quo1ified froma . nadi-s1 scbeel-at univeraity level.



ANNEX I
ECROMICDEElPMEN      DATA-"                                          Page 3 of 4 pages
Amonts i suiins of U.S. dollars)
Actual         Eat.             ProJppted                     19173-   19 75-   1980 -   19 74   19 76    1980
1973     19 74    1.975      1976        9801285                 19 75    1j98     1985
NATIONAL ACCOMNT
.Constant 1972 Prices in Million US$                       Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of GUY
Gross Domestic Product           832.0     888 .6   960.8     1036.0   1404.2  1989.4              8.0       7.9      7.2    99.8    100.9    99.6
Gains fiom Terms of Trade (+)    --4.1       1.5     -8.9      -10.2      5.1    53.2.                        .        .      0.2     -0.9     0.4
Gross Domestic Income            8l77!    UW7T     !3rT7      1025r8   TO"§    2042r               2.8       8.2      7.9   rurrT   1UU7D    1urWT
Import (incl. NFwS)              121.1     123.9    166.9      189.3    305.9   501.2            17.4       12.8     10.7    13.9     18.4    21.7
Exports      (import capacity)    110.5    110 8    124.5      136.6    230.6   410.8              6.1      13.1     14.2    12.4     13.3    16.4
Resource Gap                      WT0_    `flI      7rT         5-2.7   -7rr    7UW3                                        --r        rr       =r
Consumption ExKpenditures        696.1     763.9    804.8      872.0   1186.5  1735.5              7.5       8.1      7.2    86.0     85.0    84.2
Investment      (inel. stacks)   141.5     142.2    189.5      206.6    292.9   397.5            15.7        9.1      8.4    15.9     20.1    20.8
Domestic Savings                 122.2     121.4    144.0      154.2    222.8   259.6             8.5        9.1      5.1    13.7     14.9    15.8
National Savings                  126.9    124.5    147.1      153.9    217.0   307.2              7.7       8.1      6.6    14.0     15.0    15.4
MERHANDISE TRADE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                       As Percent of Total
Tmports
Capital goods                    42.8     42.1     73.6       87.8    174.5   340.2             31.2      18.8     14.3    22.2     28.9     27.2
Intermediate goods (mplfuels)    32.8     43.5     53.7       65.3    137.0   321.0             28.0      20.6     18.6    22.9     21.5    21.4
Fuels and related naterials       6.8     23.2     24.2       26.1     35.3    50.1             87.5       7.8      7.3    12.2      8.6     5.5
of which: Petroleum             4.8     16.4     16.9       18.3     24.7    30.1             86.0       7.9      4.1     8.6      6.0     3.9
Consumtion goods                 44.9     81.2     97.0      124.7    293.8   732.4             47.0      24.9     20.0    42.7     41,0     45.9
TotaMrch   oi~rts (cif)       127.3   T90.0     248.5      303.9    640.   14T3.7             393      11        TY      0.0     10050.
Exports
Beef                            40.9      31.1     27.6       38.7     89.8   196.7           -12.0       26.5     17.0    17.8     17.2    17.1
Lusber                          11.8      24.7     32.1       39.0     97.3   231.2            65.0       24.9     18.9    14.2     17.3    18.6
Others                           76.9    118.6    130.9      148.0    337.1   854.4             24.0      20.9     20.7    68.0     65.5    64.3
Total Merch. Exports (fob)     nir9      774.rr  -flwr      I23"      3!74T   MMEt              21.5      22.5     19.5   tU7         7     fU
Merchandise Trade Indices                   Average 1972    - 100
Export Price Index             129.6     169.4    169.3      181.6    256.6   392.8            14.4       8.7       8.9
Import Price Index             133.6    170.0     181.5      195.1    250.9   341.9            16.5       6.7       6.4
Terms of Trade Index           103.1    100.4      93.3       93.1    102.2   114.9
Exports Volume Index           110.8    116.2     134.9      156.5    248.7   374.0            10.3      13.0       8.5
VALUE ADDED SY SECTOR            Annual Data at 1972    Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual- Growth Rates      As Percent of Total
Agriculture                    288.2    315.4     343.8                                         9.1                        35.5
Industry and Mining            156.1    168.5    181.9                                          7.9
Service                        387.7    404.7    435.1                                         -Li B- -
Total                          832.0    888.6    960.8                                          7.5                       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                  As Percent of GDP
(Central G-overnment)
Current Receipts               100.8    112.4     119.8      133.2    194.0                     9.0      10.1              12.6     12.9    13.8
CMrOPpP1uret                    79.9     81.1     88.2        99.7    146.2                     5.1      10.6               9.1      9.6    10.4
Bugtr  avings              20.9     313      3.          35      4.                        9.4       8.63.                     33      34
Public Sector Investment        32.6     31.9     61.9        73.2    113.1                    37.8      12.8               3.6      7.1     8.1
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
CURRENT EXCPENDITURE DETAILS                    Actual                 Pro .            DETAIL ON                          1974
As % Total Current Expend.)            19 73   19 74     19 5      9 76   L9 77       PUBLIC SECTOR                   .iLtmillion       of Tota
Goods and Services                      19.0    21.9      26.1     27.7    26.9       INVESTMENT PROGRAM 1975-80
Wages and Salaries                      44.1    40.6      42.9     45.6    47.7        Social Sectors                       115           15.5
Transfer Payments                       19.9    20.8      22.0     23.6    23.9        Agriculture                           52            7.0
Other                                   16.9    16.7       9.0      4.3     1.5        Industry and Mining                    8            1.1
Total Current Expenditures            100.0    100.0     100.0    100.0   100.0        Power                                 94          12.7
Transport and communications          233          31.5
Financial Investment                  238          32.2
__________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ _________ Total   Expenditures  -74-0        100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                             1970-     1913-                         FINANCING
1975      1978
Average ICON                                     2.6        2.3                            Public Sector Savings              347          46.9
Import Elasticity                                i.s       1.6                             External Financing                372           50.3
?Mrginal Domestic Savings Rate                   0.2       0.2                             Internal Borrowing                 21            2 8
Marginal National Savings Rate                   0.2       0.2                             Total Financing74                               0.
LARCR FORCE AND                               Total Labor Force                              Value Added Per Worke (172          Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER       ~~In Millions      %of Total           l~      4        Inl U.S.Dollars    Percent  f   veag         19 65 - 74
1975       1974    19 65     19 74     Growt   ae         1 65      1974        965      19 74      Growth Rate
Agriculture                   0.35       0.61    57.4      51.2           1.8           642.3     769.3       69.5      69.3          2.1
Industry                      0.11       0.12    18.0      14.8           1.0           891.8    1404.2       96.5     126.4          5.2
Service                       0.15       0.27    24.6      34.0           6.7          1606.7    1498.9      173.8     134.9         -0.8
Total                         6Trrur            nr        raruT          77r           iiz2:47   rini m-8         100.0 3--            .1
not applicable        - nil or neglIgible
not available       - lees than half the                             1/ Based on findings of 1975 economic mission.
smallest unit shown



BAIANCE OF PA!MENTS1 ESRNIAL ASSISTANCE AND DEWBT1
(amounts in millicns of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual            Est.                                      Projected                            Average Annual
1973        19 74       1975                       1976       19 78       19 sq                         Growth Rate
1975-1980
SUMHART BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                                 147.6       203.6       224.9                    265.3       414.6       589.0       1398.5                 21.2
Ioportst(incl..NFS)                                 160.0       233.4       301.6                    367.7       530.5       764.2       1706.1                 20.5
Resource Blalance (X-M)                             -12.4       -29.8       -76.7                   -102.4      -115.9      -175.2      -307.6
Interest (net)                                       -5s0        -4.2        -4.7                     -6.7       -15.3       -28.2      -118,4
Other Factor Services                                 0.7        -1.2        -2.3                      6.3        10.4        12.8       -47.3
Curent Transfers_(nt)                                 2.0         0.8         0.9                      0.9         1.2         1.3         1.9
Balance on Current Accounts                            7   3     4.4                                 -7=       -7=          -471.5
Private Direct Investment                             9.4        19.5        23.4                      26.9       30.8        33.0        35.3                   7.1
Public MkLT Loans
Dlsbursements                                      15.2        29.1        72.5                     84.5       107.6       191.4       319.3
-10.2       -10.6       -24.0                     -18.6       -32.5      -47.3      -140.0
Ne-t Disbursements5.0                                            18.5        48.5                     65.8        7S.2       144.2       T79,
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                          20.9       35.0        18.2                      15.7        22.6        22.5         6.3
Change in Net Reserves                              -21.2      -38.6        -8.2                      -6.6        -8.9       -12.4       -25.6
Actual          Est.
1973       1
DEBT AND DEMT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. k Disbursed             129.4     150.4    200.0
GRANT AND IOAN OMIMIIMENTS
Official Grants & Orant-like                                                                           Interest on Public Debt                 5.1       5.6       9.8
Repayments on Public Debt               10.1      10.6     15.4
Public MkLT Ians                                                                                      Total Pablic Debt Service              15.2      16.2      25.2
rIRD                                                 -                     24.5
IDA                                                 5.1                    11.0
Other Multilateral                                             11.5        32.3
Governments                                        10.0         6.6         9.0                   Burden on Export Esrnings (%)
Suppliers                                                      16.4         7.0
Financial Institutions                              3.0        31.4         7.0                     Public Debt Service                     10.2       7.9      14.2
Total Public M6LT Loans                               18.1        65.9        90.8
Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanting on Dec. 31.1974                    Int. as % Prior Year DL&D                4.2       4.3       6.5
EXTERqAL EB                                   Disburd    nl               Percent                        Amort. as % Prior Yeaw DO&D              8.4       8.2      10.2
World Bank                                       a3.U7
IDA                                             25.4                     16.8                        nERD Debt Out. & Disbursed                12.7      15.0      17.8
Other Miltilateral                               4.0                      2.6                             as % Public Debt OkD                  9.8      10.0       8.9
Governments                                      70.2                    46.3                             as % Public Debt Service              5.9       8.6       6.5
Suppliers                                       21.0                     13.9
Financial Institutions                           15.9                    10.5                        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed                 25.6      25.4      26.0
Total Public M6LT Debt                          151.5                    100.0                           as % Public Debt O&D                  19.8      16.9      13.0
as % Public Debt Service               2.6       1.9       1.3
. not applicable                                                 e  staff estimate                                  1/ Based on findings of 1975 economic mission.
. not available                                                    - nil or negligible
... not available separately                                       --  less than half the
but included in total                                             smallest unit shown



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (September 30, 1976)
Loan or                                                        (US$ million)
Credit                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
No.       Year     Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA      Undisbursed
Six loans and four credits fully disbursed.             21.8   21.4          -
347      1972    Paraguay     Secondary Education        -     5.1        3.5
1037      1974    Paraguay     Livestock IV             10.0      -        5.9
509      1974    Paraguay     Small Farmer Credit &
Rural Development         -   11.0        9.3
1059      1974    Paraguay     Highways IV              14.5      -       13.3
587      1975    Paraguay     Preinvestment Studies      -     4.0        4.0
1252      1976    Paraguay     Vocational Training      4.0       -        4.0
Total (net of cancellations)         50.3   41.5        40.0
of which has been repaid            6.8    0.5
Total now outstanding                43.5   41.0
Amount sold                  0.3
of which has been repaid 0.3
Total now held by Bank/IDA /1        43.5   41.0
Total undisbursed                    23.2   16.8        40.0
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment
B. Statement of IFC Investments - September 30, 1976
Type of                Amount in US$ million
Year         Obligor            Business            Loan      Equity     Total
1974         FINAP S.A.         Wood Processing     4.4        1.0        5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   4.4       1.0         5.4
Total undisbursed                        -                     -



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.  Projects in Execution I/
Credit 347-PA    First Education Project, US$5.1 million, December 22, 1972;
(Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979).
Project implementation is proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
Construction of the first-phase schools is completed and equipment and furni-
ture are being installed.
Loan 1037-PA     Fourth Livestock Project, US$10.0 million, September 6, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 21, 1975; Closing Date:
February 28, 1979).
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory despite the
deterioration in the beef export market. The total number of subloans made to
ranchers/farmers (301) has surpassed appraisal estimates for the first year.
Credit 509-PA    Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, US$11.0
million, September 6, 1974; (Date of Effectiveness: April 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979).
Project execution, on the whole, has been satisfactory. Agri-
cultural credit, which is the main component of the project, is being success-
fully implemented. The project has encountered cost overruns in the civil
works component because of rapidly increasing construction costs. The Govern-
ment and IDA have reached agreement on a plan of action to resolve the cost
overrun problem.
Loan 1059-PA     Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979).
Contractors have been selected for the execution of the civil
works and consulting services have been retained for technical assistance to
the Ministry of Public Works and Communications for maintenance studies and
transportation planning. Contracts have also been let for supervision of the
civil works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Credit 587-PA    Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17,
1975; (Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980).
The credit is encountering initital start-up difficulties of
processing subproject applications on a timely basis. Technical assistance
support is also behind schedule, but measures to accelerate the recruitment
of experts in order to rationalize the processing of subprojects have been
initiated.
Loan 1252-T-PA Vocational Training Project, US$4.0 million, May 13, 1976;
(Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980).
The project, which became effective August 26, 1976, is
proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
PARAGUAY - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Paraguay
Amount:         Loan of US$8.0 million
Development Credit of US$4.0 million
Terms:          Loan-payable in 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace
at 8.7% interest per annum.
Credit-standard.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would support the Government's efforts
to extend educational opportuni'vies to children and adults
in rural areas. Emphasis would be given to improving the
quality and efficiency of the education system by expanding
the production of textbooks and teaching materials and
upgrading the skills of teachers and supervisors. Specifi-
cally the project would:
(a) establish 83 rural community learning centers, offering
primary education to about 30,000 school-age children
and nonformal basic education and training to about
20,000 out-of-school youths and adults;
(b) complete construction of 77 associated primary schools
for 18,000 students which were initiated by community
financial effort;
(c) provide functional buildings and equipment for workshops
and laboratories for five lower secondary schools
(grades 7-9) for 2,400 students;
(d) expand two existing multilateral secondary schools with
workshops and laboratories to serve 1,800 students and
supply complementary equipment for workshops and labo-
ratories for three schools being constructed under the
First Bank Education Project;
(e) provide in-service training for about 2,700 teachers,
school directors and supervisors of project institutions;
(f) print materials for the production of 10 textbook titles
and related teaching guides for grades 5 and 6 for the
rural schools (about 300,000 books);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
(g)  assist the various departments in the Ministry of
Education Departments to improve their efficiency in
educational administration;
(h)  help the Ministry of Education complete an educational
facilities survey and a school map;
(i)  assist the Government in carrying out a study on bilingual
education; and
(j)  provide related technical assistance comprising eight
man/years of specialist services and 27 man/years of
fellowships for training abroad.
Estimated
Cost
US$ (million)
Local  Foreign   Total      %
Rural Community Learning Centers         5.73    2.08      7.81     60.1
Associated Rural Primary Schools         0.35    0.21      0.56      4.3
Lower Secondary Schools                  0.83    0.48      1.31     10.0
Multilateral Secondary Schools           0.40    0.73      1.13      8.7
Teacher Training                         0.34    0.16      0.50      3.8
Textbook Production                      0.04    0.37      0.41      3.1
Central Administration                   0.01    0.07      0.08      0.6
School Mapping                           0.11    0.05     0.16       1.2
Bilingual Study                          0.04    0.01      0.05      0.3
Technical Assistance & Fellowships       0.06    0.57      0.63      4.8
Project Administration                   0.24    0.10      0.34      2.6
Base Cost                           8.15    4.83    12.98     100.0
Physical Contingencies (9.5%)            0.81    0.43      1.24
Sub Total                           8.96    5.26    14.22
Price Contingencies (22.2%)              2.12    1.04      3.16
Total Project Cost                 11.08    6.30    17.38
Financing
Plan
Amount
Source    US$ million     Percentage
IBRD/IDA      12.0            69.0
Government      5.38          31.0
Total       17.38          100.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated
Disbursements                    Fiscal Years            US$ Million
(Annual) (Cumulative)
1977             0.24        0.24
1978             3.19        3.43
1979             4.04        7.47
1980             4.45       11.92
1981             0.08       12.00
Procurement
Arrangement   Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Since the
civil works are of small size (averaging US$90,000) and at
scattered locations, foreign contractors are not expected
to participate but they would not be precluded from bidding.
Contracts for the procurement of furniture and equipment
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank-IDA guidelines, except
that furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped into
packages of at least US$50,000 or more would be procured
on the basis of local procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group. Procurement under these procedures would not in
aggregate exceed 15% of the total cost of furniture and
equipment,or about US$400,000.   Domestic equipment and
furniture manufacturers tendering under international com-
petitive bidding procedures would be allowed a preferential
margin equal to the prevailing tariff or 15% of the c.i.f.
cost of competitive imports, whichever is lower.
Staff Project
Report        A third Education Project in Paraguay, No. 1269-PA
Education Projects Division
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I     -    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project - five months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project - Planning Office in
the Ministry of Education with the assistance of UNESCO and
IBRD.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, December 20, 1975, and
date of first Bank mission to consider the project, March 15,
1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission, March 15, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations - November 5, 1976.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness - May 3, 1977. 1/
Section II    -    Special Bank Implementation Actions
(1) Bank has reached agreement on schedule of implementation with
Government.
Section III   -    Special Conditions
(i) by March 1, 1978, implement the revised curriculum for
primary education in all project schools (para. 34);
(ii) appoint in project schools only qualified teachers who
have benefited from upgrading course (para. 34);
(iii) by March 1, 1979, establish the new decentralized school
supervision system and train all rural community learning
centers directors (para. 35);
(iv) appoint only qualified teachers who have received training
in adult nonformal education in the 10 selected RCLCs where
extensive adult education programs are offered (para. 37);
(v) establish, within three months after effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement, a central coordinating committee composed
of representatives from the Ministries of Education, Agri-
culture, Public Works, and Health and Labor to be responsible
for the overall planning, coordination and supervision of the
1/   Congress will be in recess until February 28, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
school map project item, and prepare draft terms of refer-
ence and the schedule for completing the school map accept-
able to the Bank within three months of the establishment
of the central coordinating committee (para. 45);
(vi) select specialists and fellowships under the project tech-
nical assistance acceptable to the Bank Group and appoint
them on terms and conditions aceptable to the Bank Group;
provide suitable counterparts for the specialists; and make
appropriate arrangement for the placement of fellowship
recipients (para. 47);
(vii) make sufficient and timely budgetary allocations to meet the
annual requirement for counterpart funds to implement the
project (para. 48);
(viii)  select sites-in accordance with criteria acceptable to the
Bank Group and acquire them as needed for the construction
and operation of the project facilities (para. 50); and
(ix) allocate funds for adequate maintenance and repair of build-
ings, equipment and furniture provided under the project
(para. 50).



B  OALMIEVR_IC X                                         *                                         A
NEUVA ASLJNCI6N
I A ANA/TY                              I IT
A uARGENTNAr                                         r.SI
I \ NEUV~~~~~~~~~~~A LTNCON 
/   K                            ~~~~~~~~PARAGUAY   4n
00'       0 e              00             ' EeR  N
A R G E N T I N         NA7tsTCRL
RI~    ~    [/ CE,T, RK.,                 0n--  5 .o'      Jf   - 
\    °h/T  X9.rsE .N/wo M\- G
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A R G                                E N  T I N A_^ h;uoMsw ** Ar >z _ 
><~~~~~~~~~~W Fori Ca.l f:TR ADd                              I I~ LOF@5



