Document of                         FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1269a-PA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PARAGUAY
November 22, 1976
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Guarani                         US$
e 126.0           =             US$ 1.00
¢   1.0           =             US$ 0.008
e 1 million        =            US$ 7,936.5
Measures
1 m=                            1.09 yd.
1 m2              =             10.8 ft.2
1 Km              =             .62 mile
1 Km2                           .39 mile2
1 ha              =             2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT ON AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................................                      i - xi
I.    ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT  STRATEGY AND
EDUCATIONAL IMPLICATIONS ...............................1
Economic Development Strategy ..........................                         1
Educational Implications ...............................                         2
II.    EDUCATION SECTOR .......................................                          4
General ................................................                         4
Overview of the Education System .......................                         4
Nonformal Education and Training .......................                         7
Planning and Management ................................                         7
Cost and Finance .......................................                         8
Bank Group's Role in Education and Training ............                        11
III.    THE PROJECT ............................................                         25
Objectives and Composition .............................                        25
Elements of the Project ................................                        26
IV.    COST OF THE PROJECT ....................................                         41
Cost Estimates .........................................                        41
Financial Plan .........................................                        43
V.    IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT ........................                         47
Project Administration .................................                        47
Project Implementation Schedule ........................                        47
Professional and Technical Services ....................                        47
Sites ..................................................                        47
Procurement ............................................                        48
Maintenance ............................................                        48
Disbursements ..........................................                        48
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Paraguay March 15- April 12, 1976. The mission consisted of Messrs. A. Freire
(General Educator), L. Secco (Architect), and Mrs. L. Jallade (Economist,
Consultant).
This document has  re tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnane
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   BENEFITS, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND EVALUATION .... .....          53
Project Benefits .......................................          53
Risks and Uncertainties ................................          53
Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................          53
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................          55
ANNEXES
II- 1   Structure of the Education and Training
System, 1975 .......................................          12
II- 2   Comparative Education Indicators ....         ...............  13
II- 3   Rural Primary Education, Student Flows ....       .........    15
II- 4   Education Pyramid:  Enrollment in Public and
Private Institutions, 1974 .........................          16
II- 5   Organization of Ministry of Education ....        ..........   17
II- 6   Public Expenditures on Education ....         ...............  18
II- 7   Trends in Teachers' Salaries 1972-76 ....        ...........   19
II- 8   Implementation of New Teachers' Salary Scale .......           20
II- 9   Ministry of Education Recurrent Expenditures by Level
of Education .......................................          21
II-10   Recurrent Expenditures by Category of Expenditure              22
II-11   Unit Recurrent Costs in Public Primary Education               23
II-12   Estimate of Community Contribution to Public
Education, 1975 ....................................          24
III-1   Rural Community Learning Centers by Department,
District and Number of Classrooms ....        ..............  35
III-2   Status of Construction of Associated Rural
Primary Schools ....................................          36
III-3   Secondary Schools ..................................           37
III-4   Upgrading Courses for School Supervisors, Directors
and Teachers .......................................          38
III-5   Textbook Production ................................           39
III-6   Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule    .......        40
IV -1   Summary of Estimated Costs .........................           45
IV -2   Contingency Allowances .............................           46
V -1   Implementation and Expenditures Schedule ....       .......    50
V -2   Project Unit Staff Supplementary Salaries .... ......          51
V -3   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....        ............   52
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ...........................           56
MAP



PARAGUAY
31/
Basic Data-
Area                                            406,752 Km2
Population (1972)                               2.4 million           100%
Urban                                       .9 million            38%
Rural                                     1.5 million             62%
Annual Growth Rate (1965-73)                    2.6%
% Under 15 Years of Age                         45%
Labor Force (1972)                              0.8 million           100%
Agriculture                               0.4 million             51%
Industry                                  0.1 million             15%
Services                                  0.3 million             30%
Unallocated                                                        1%
Unemployment                                                       3%
GNP (1975)
Per Capita                                US$ 570
Annual Growth Rate (1971-74)              7.2%
Literacy Rate (1974)                                                   81%
Urban                                                             89%
Rural                                                             74%
Enrollments (1974)                                               % of Age Group
(Net)
Primary Education                         455,000                 82%
Urban                                195,000                90%
Rural                                260,000                75%
Secondary Education                        72,000                 17%
Lower                                 47,200                25%
Upper                                 24,800                14%
Higher Education                           13,300                  5%
Nonformal Vocational Training               2,600
SNPP                                   1,400
Ministry of Education                  1,200
Public Education Expenditures (1974)
As % of GNP                                                1.8%
As % of Total Public Expenditures                         11.0l %
-    SsV
See also Annex I1-2






PARAGUAY
Summary and Conclusions
Educational Implications of the Country's Development Strategy
1.        Paraguay is predominantly a rural society with two-thirds of its
2.4 million population living in rural areas. This distribution of the popu-
lation puts a heavy burden on the educational system in rural areas to keep
pace with the demand for agricultural workers. The number of primary school
graduates entering the agricultural sector will have to increase from about
15% to 40% per year. The rural education system is presently not in a
position to satisfy such requirements. The majority of the rural schools
(about 87%) offer fewer than six grades of primary education, and only 17%
of the children enrolled in first grade complete primary education, as
compared with more than 45% in urban areas.
2.        Although there is a relatively large number of rural schools (about
3,000), few provide adequate opportunities for a complete education. The
lack of textbooks and teaching materials, and the fact that curricula are often
irrelevant, contribute to this situation, resulting in high dropout and repeti-
tion rates. The development of the country's vast hydroelectric resources
with the neighboring countries of Argentina and Brazil and the construction
of new roads such as those from Asuncion to Hernandarias and from Asuncion to
Encarnacion are beginning to affect the migration patterns in Paraguay with
increased concentration of population in those provinces where development
projects are under way. This places a heavy burden on the Government to
develop the educational resources in those areas. The Government of Paraguay
recognizes this situation and has given high priority to the strengthen-
ing of rural education. The Government's programs in this field aim at,
first, equalizing educational opportunities between cities and rural areas;
and, second, at orienting the educational system more directly towards the
objective of more efficient agricultural production methods.
Overview of the Education System
3.        The formal education and training system of Paraguay is handicapped
by structural imbalances and qualitative deficiencies. In the past the
Government has consistently underspent on education--only 13% of the total
public expenditures in 1975, or about US$11 per capita--which is low compared
with other countries at similar per capita income levels. Moreover, the impact
of government spending on education is impaired by the low efficiency of the
system. In 1974 about 82% of the 7-12 year age group was enrolled in primary
schools, but only 34% of the total enrollment was in the grade corresponding
to age. In addition to the 7-12 year age group, about 100,000 overage stu-
dents (13 years old and over) were enrolled in primary schools as a result of
high repetition rates and late entry. High dropout and repetition rates
are reflected in completion rates of only 26% at the primary level and 41%
at the secondary level. These figures imply that roughly 40% of annual ope-
rating expenditures is spent on those who fail to complete their studies
within the expected period.



4.        Primary school enrollment has increased at the rate of 2.8% per year
over the past ten years, which is slightly higher than the 2.6% rate of popu-
lation growth. Nevertheless, the opportunities that the rural population has
to obtain a full six-grade primary education are severely limited. Only 36%
of those entering grade 1 reach grade 4 (the minimum literacy level); and only
17% complete all six primary grades. These figures do not reflect a lack of
motivation on the part of either parents or children, but rather an insuffi-
cient number of rural schools which offer complete primary education, relevant
curricula, basic teaching materials and equipment. Moreover, most rural
teachers need upgrading, since the majority of them (about 70%) have teaching
certificates but have not been trained to work in a rural environment. As a
result, these teachers have limited effectiveness in dealing with rural chil-
dren who have broad experience in agriculture but limited familiarity with
urban life. Rural teachers are also largely unsupervised and lack information
about new educational trends.
5.        Regarding the secondary level, the coverage of the education system
is even lower. Despite the fact that secondary school enrollment has increased
by 8.3% per year during the past 10 years, it still represents only 17% of the
relevant age group population, which is low by South American standards. The
private school system accounts for 38% of the secondary school enrollment;
students at this level come primarily from wealthier families. Furthermore,
the secondary education system is directed principally towards urban children
(46% of total enrollment is in Asuncion alone) and should be expanded and
improved in semirural areas.
6.        The Government is achieving important improvements in the rural
education system through various projects under execution. The basic objec-
tives of the Government's education policy, set out in the 1969-80 Educa-
tion Development Plan, are to increase educational opportunities at the
primary and secondary levels and to improve the quality of educational pro-
grams and adapt them to the needs of the expanding economy. A reform program
is being implemented at the basic education level (grades I to 9), consisting
of the development of new curricula, production of new textbooks, and the
construction of primary schools, regional education centers and teacher train-
ing facilities. In furtherance of this effort, the proposed Bank Group
financing would support the Government's education strategy by establishing
areas educativas, which consist of well-equipped community centers surrounded
by associated schools that will apply innovative curricula, have upgraded
teachers, and new and more relevant teaching materials. The areas educativas
will also have a more effective, decentralized system of supervision.
7.        The structure and content of secondary education are also being
reformed through the first IDA education project (Credit 347-PA). The multi-
lateral school concept is being introduced to offer practical options at the
lower secondary level and technical courses at the higher level. Although
the schools in that project are not yet operational, the strategy being
implemented should result in a major improvement in the relevance of second-
ary education within the next few years. In addition, IDB is participating



- iii -
in the development of secondary agricultural education and, together with
the IDA project, graduation of students from job-oriented courses will more
than double.
8.        Women play an important role in Paraguay's education sector.  The
enrollment of girls in preprimary education represents 51% of the total; in
primary education, 47%; in lower secondary, 48%; and in upper secondary, 54%.
Women enrolled in teacher training courses represent up to 90% of the total,
and at the university level the enrollment of women is about 42% of the total.
In addition, adult education programs are designed to assist women in improv-
ing their standards of living by means of literacy courses and training geared
toward increasing their productivity and access to cash income.
Nonformal Education and Training
9.        The Government's policy toward the education sector gives high
priority to the development of vocational training for both urban and rural
populations in order to meet the expected demand for qualified manpower
in the growing sectors of the economy. A three stage, ten year plan for
the development of vocational training was prepared by the Ministry of Justice
and Labor in 1970. The plan aimed at establishing a national infrastructure
for vocational training through the construction of strategically located
regional centers from which mobile action programs could be organized. This
strategy is being implemented with the support of a Bank-financed project
(Loan 1252 T-PA).
10.       At present most nonformal education and training programs are
offered in major cities. Literacy courses administered by the Ministries
of Education, Interior and Defense are mainly available to the urban popula-
tion, even though illiteracy is more acute in rural areas. Moreover, agri-
cultural extension services are limited to farmers who produce cash crops.
To strengthen the basic education and nonformal system in the rural areas, the
Government plans to establish the proposed rural community learning centers
where formal primary education and nonformal basic education and vocational
training would be provided.
Bank Group's Role in Education and Training
11.       The basic objective of Bank Group lending to the education sector
in Paraguay is to support the Government's efforts to expand the availability
of formal and nonformal education throughout the country and to improve its
quality by making it more relevant to the manpower requirements of the economy.
The first Bank Group education project (Credit 347-PA) is a key component of
Paraguay's overall educational reform program and was designed to assist the
Government in developing a more effective system of secondary and vocational
education. The implementation of this project is proceeding in a satisfactory
manner. Construction of the first phase schools is completed and equipment
and furniture are being installed. The second project (Loan 1252 T-PA), which
became effective on August 26, 1976, was designed to meet Paraguay's urgent
need for nonformal vocational training programs throughout the country.



- iv -
The proposed project represents a continuation of the Bank Group's effort in
the sector and would assist the Government in extending educational opportuni-
ties to the rural population. In this manner the proposed project also com-
plements the vocational training and rural development projects by providing
regional centers that service mobile facilities and rural schools that train
youth in new settlements.
The Project
12.       An education sector analysis was carried out by the Education
Planning Office of the Ministry of Education in August 1975 and revised in
September 1975 with assistance provided by the Bank. A Bank reconnaissance
mission visited Paraguay in October 1975 to discuss the content of a possible
third education project with the Government. In November/ December of the
same year the Government prepared the project with UNESCO assistance, and in
April 1976 the project was appraised by a Bank mission. Negotiations were
held in Washington from October 29 to November 5, 1976. The Paraguayan
delegation was led by Dr. Epifanio Salcedo.
Objectives and Composition
13.       The proposed education project would assist the Government in
the implementation of its education policies and programs set out in the
1969/80 Education Development Plan. In particular, it would support the
Government's efforts to improve and extend educational opportunities in rural
areas and semirural towns, thereby complementing its investment efforts in
the rural sector. It would also help improve the quality and efficiency of
the education system by increasing the production of textbooks and teaching
materials, upgrading teachers and supervisors and strengthening educational
administration. Specifically, the project would:
(i) establish 83 rural community learning centers, offering
primary education to about 30,000 school-age children and
nonformal basic education and training to about 20,000 out-
of-school youths and adults;
(ii) support rural communities in the completion of construction
of 77 primary schools for 18,000 students by supplying
essential building materials and technical assistance;
(iii) provide functional buildings and equipment for workshops
and laboratories for five lower secondary schools (grades 7
to 9) for 2,400 students;
(iv) expand two existing multilateral secondary schools with
workshops and laboratories to cater to 1,800 students and
to supply complementary equipment for workshops and labora-
tories for three schools being constructed under the IDA-
financed First Education Project;



- v 
(v) provide in-service training for about 2,700 teachers, head-
masters and supervisors of project institutions;
(vi) print 10 textbooks and related teaching guides for grades
5 and 6 in rural schools (about 300,000 books);
(vii) strengthen the administration of various departments
in the Ministry of Education;
(viii) assist the Ministry of Education in completing an
education facilities survey and a school map;
(ix) assist the Government in carrying out a study on bilingual
education; and
(x) provide related technical assistance comprising eight
man/years of specialist services and 27 man/years of
fellowships for training abroad.
14.       Rural Community Learning Centers.  Programs in the rural community
learning centers (RCLC) would include (a) formal primary education, (b) accel-
erated primary education, (c) functional literacy courses, (d) nonformal train-
ing, and (e) seminars for teachers in surrounding rural schools. Children from
small communities within 5 km of an RCLC, where only the first four grades were
offered, could complete their primary education (grades 5 and 6) at the RCLC.
The total enrollment in each RCLC would vary from 240 to 480, depending on the
population being served in the area.
15.       New curricula designed to meet rural social, economic and geo-
graphic needs have been developed with USAID and UNESCO support. The major
characteristic would be to increase the students' role in the learning process
by requiring them to work on small farms or in workshops, laboratories or school
libraries. The curricula concentrate on three main areas: social life and
communications; nature, health and work; and mathematics. The implementation
of these new curricula would rest on the teachers in rural areas who would need
to be trained and receive instructions in new teaching techniques. The proposed
project encourages the upgrading of teachers and provides opportunities to learn
new teaching techniques through in-service teacher training courses. No shortage
of qualified teachers willing to work in rural areas is expected because of the
various incentives provided by the Government, including double salary for
working two shifts, incentive allowances for teaching in frontier or isolated
areas, and credits toward salary increases for having attended upgrading
courses, participated in community development activities and multigrade
teaching. To ensure the smooth and efficient implementation of the new curri-
cula and to improve the quality of rural teaching, assurances were obtained
from the Government that all project schools would (a) by March 1, 1978, imple-
ment the revised curricula and (b) appoint to project schools only qualified
teachers who had benefited from the upgrading courses. (Sections 4.02 and
4.03 of the Credit Agreement.)



- vi -
16.       In the past, school supervisors who lived primarily in the capitals
of Departments were responsible for about 125 schools, and because of the lack
of per diem and transportation could supervise only a few schools a year.
Under the project, directors of RCLCs would be the technical and administra-
tive supervisors of their own centers and of eight to ten associated rural
schools. This decentralization would enable RCLC directors to visit the
schools in their district about twice a month. The project would finance
about 40 motorcycles to facilitate their transportation. To ensure that ade-
quate supervision would be provided by RCLC directors, the Government gave
assurances that by March 1, 1979, it would establish the new decentralized
school supervision system and that all RCLC directors would have attended
special training courses for regional supervisors. (Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of
the Credit Agreement.)
17.       Accelerated primary education for about 6,000 out-of-school and
overage rural youths would also be provided annually at the RCLCs. Although
the curricula content is similar to that of regular schooling, it takes into
consideration experience, maturity, interest and working commitment of the par-
ticular group of pupils. Teachers charged with carrying out the accelerated
primary education program would require additional training, which would be
provided under the project.
18.       Nonformal education and training courses for about 14,000 rural
adults would be offered annually by ten RCLCs located in populated rural
communities and colonization areas. This effort would complement the Bank-
financed Vocational Training Project (Loan 1252 T-PA), which is helping
strengthen the Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP), an agency
in the Ministry of Justice and Labor responsible for carrying out the coun-
try's vocational training programs. Under the proposed project the RCLCs
would provide workshops, classrooms and service facilities for the mobile
action programs provided under the Vocational Training Project. To provide
quality training to the rural adult population being served by the ten RCLCs,
the Government gave assurances that it would appoint only qualified teachers
who had received training in adult nonformal education. (Section 4.05
of the Credit Agreement.)
19.       Associated Rural Primary Schools.  As a result of past community
action, 77 rural primary schools were initiated but not completed because of
inadequate program planning and execution. These schools will have a capa-
city of 18,000 children and will be of the same standards, in terms of archi-
tectural designs and materials, as other project institutions. The project
will provide the necessary building materials to complete construction,
as well as equipment, educational materials and technical assistance to make
these schools operational. The associated schools are located within the
vicinity of each RCLC and the directors of these centers would supervise them.
The schools would provide a minimum of four grades of education (grades 1 to
4) so that children could complete their primary education (grades 5 and 6) at
RCLCs.



- vii -
20.       Lower Secondary Schools.  The project would support the Government's
policy of extending secondary educational opportunities to semirural areas as
a basis for improving the productivity of lower income groups. Specifically,
this project item would comprise the construction, furnishing and equipping
of five lower secondary schools in the semirural towns of Belem, Loreto,
Independencia, Dr. J. M. Frutos, and Capitan Miranda. Each school would have
a capacity of 240 student places and would replace and expand existing unsuit-
able accommodations. The project schools, working in two shifts, would enroll
about 2,400 students when in full operation by 1981. The curricula would
include prevocational subjects (industrial, agricultural, and home economics)
to better prepare students for further specialization or work. Students
completing the courses in the lower secondary schools could further their
education in the multilateral secondary schools being constructed under
the IDA-financed first education project, in the regional education centers
established with USAID assistance, or in the multilateral secondary schools
which would be expanded and equipped under this project.
21.       Multilateral Secondary Schools.  The project would finance the
construction, furnishing and equipping of workshops and laboratories for two
existing multilateral secondary schools (grades 7 to 12) at Luque and Pilar.
The project would expand the capacity of these schools from 400 to 600 student
places each, and would also provide revised curricula, including practical
courses.
22.       The project would also finance the procurement of additional equip-
ment for a multilateral and a secondary technical school and a vocational train-
ing center being constructed under the IDA-financed first education project
(Credit 347-PA) to enable the implementation of new curricula for the tech-
nical streams recently designed by the Ministry of Education with the support
of international consultants. This equipment would be primarily for mechani-
cal, electrical and refrigeration workshops and some specialized laboratories.
23.       Upgrading Courses for School Supervisors, Directors and Teachers.
The project would include funds to assist the Institute of Higher Education
and Regional Education Centers in carrying out a comprehensive upgrading
program for about 2,700 teachers, school directors and supervisors of project
institutions. About 20 departmental supervisors of primary schools and about
100 directors of RCLCs would receive a two-month course on school supervision
techniques, on the use of teaching aids, on rural development programs being
implemented or planned and on a system of collecting education statistics.
24.       Production of Textbooks.  The Ministry of Education has already print-
ed about 500,000 textbooks for the first four grades of rural primary schools.
Under the project, the Ministry (through its Department of Textbook Production)
would be able to supply about 300,000 textbooks for grades 5 and 6 of primary
rural education, 20,000 teachers' guides and 5,000 textbooks and teachers'
guides for adult basic education. Production of the textbooks would be in
accordance with the government policy of charging parents the cost of materials
plus an estimated three-year price increase contingency in order to create a
revolving fund for reprints and to continue financing salaries and other



- viii -
expenses of textbook production. The textbooks would cover the main subject
areas (Communication/Spanish, Mathematics, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences
and Health) in the curricula for rural schools. A team of 30 teachers,
educators and draftsmen, trained under a USAID program, is writing the texts
which will be printed by local, private firms. Distribution would be
through RCLCs in small villages and the Internal Revenue Office, which has
agencies all over the country. The cost of producing teachers' guides would
be absorbed by the Ministry of Education.
25.       Improvement of Central Education Administration.  To strengthen
their efficiency of operations, the project would finance the purchase of
essential equipment and furniture to the Ministry of Education departments.
Related technical assistance and fellowships would be provided under the
technical assistance component.
26.       School Mapping.  The project would finance the purchase of equip-
ment for completing a school mapping program. The program would update
national, regional and local targets for the various levels of the education
system. The Government gave assurances that, to achieve this goal, it would
establish within three months after the effectiveness of the Loan/ Credit
Agreement a central coordinating committee composed of the Director General
of Education and the Directors of Education Planning, Primary, Secondary and
Technical Education, and School Construction; and that within three months
thereafter it would prepare draft terms of reference and a schedule, accept-
able to Bank/IDA, for completing the school map (Section 3.04 of the Credit
Agreement).
27.       Bilingual Study.  The project would finance a bilingual study to
help the Government formulate a workable linguistic policy to use in rural
education and training programs, taking into consideration that both Guarani
and Spanish are the official languages. The study would be executed by the
Directorate General of Education through its education research unit.
28.       Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance provided under the
project is designed to supplement assistance being provided by bilateral
and multilateral sources and would include: (a) eight man/years of specialist
services in (i) education financing and statistics; (ii) student evaluation
systems; (iii) management planning and position classification; (iv) financing
and auditing textbook production programs; (v) industrial arts teacher train-
ing; (vi) school mapping; and (vii) architectural design and construction
supervision; and (b) 27 man/years of fellowships for (i) about 12 central
administration staff and (ii) 40 technical teachers. The cost of technical
assistance is estimated at US$45,000 per man/year of specialist services and
US$10,000 per man/year of fellowships. The Government gave assurances that all
specialists and fellowship recipients would be acceptable to the Bank Group and
appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group. Suitable
counterpart personnel would be provided to work with the specialists; and
appropriate arrangements for the placement of the recipients of the fellow-
ship program would be made. (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement.)



- ix -
Project Cost and Financing
29.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$17.4 million,
net of taxes, including physical contingencies of US$1.2 million and price
contingencies of US$3.2 million. Bank Group financing of US$12 million would
cover 69% of of the total project cost, including all of the foreign exchange
cost, estimated at US$6.2 million, and US$5.8 million of the local cost, esti-
mated   at US$11.2 million.  Local cost financing of this order is justified
in Paraguay for the reasons referred to in para. 13. The Government has
agreed to make sufficient and timely budgetary allocations to meet the
estimated annual requirement for counterpart funds to implement the project,
and to regularly review with the Bank the amounts needed for this purpose.
30.       In 1981, when the project is expected to be fully operational, the
recurrent expenditures caused by the project would amount to US$0.5 million
annually. These expenditures are relatively low due to the fact that a
large portion of the schools substitute for existing schools that are already
staffed. These additional costs would not impose an undue burden on the
financial capacity of the Government, since they represent only 1.5% of the
projected recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of Education for 1981.
Project Implementation
31.       The project unit in the Ministry of Education which was established
under the first education project (Credit 347-PA) would be responsible
for executing the proposed project. Key staff have been appointed and project
implementation of Credit 347-PA has been proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
No major additional burden is expected to be placed on the existing staff as a
result of the proposed project, as the majority of project schools (Credit
347-PA) are already under construction. To cope with the expanded workload of
architectural briefs and design and supervision of civil works under the pro-
posed project, the project unit has recruited one additional civil engineer.
To assist the project unit in the efficient and timely execution of the proj-
ect, a comprehensive implementation schedule has been prepared and agreed
upon by the Government and the Bank Group. The project unit would use this
schedule for purposes of monitoring and implementing the project. For complet-
ing the construction of associated primary schools, the Department of School
Construction in the Ministry of Education would have primary responsibility
under the overall supervision of the project unit. Sites for 80% of the
project schools have already been acquired and are suitable. The remaining
20% are expected to be either donated or easily purchased by the Government,
as project schools are in rural areas where land is available. Assurances
were obtained from the Government that, in principle, any remaining sites
still to be identified would be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable
to the Bank Group (Section 3.07 of the Credit Agreement). The project unit
would also be responsible for adequate maintenance of project facilities and
the Government gave assurances that it would allocate funds for adequate
maintenance and repair of buildings, equipment and furniture provided under
the project (Section 4.07 of the Credit Agreement).



- x -
32.       Project evaluation would be made by the existing evaluation unit
within the Education Planning Department of the Ministry of Education. This
unit would be strengthened by the project through technical assistance and
training abroad of key local staff.
Procurement and Disbursements
33.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group. Since the civil works are of small size (averag-
ing US$90,000) and at scattered locations, foreign contractors are not expected
to participate but they would not be precluded from bidding. Contracts
for the procurement of furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines,
except that furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped into packages of at
least US$50,000 or more would be procured on the basis of local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group. It is estimated that procurement under these
procedures would not in the aggregate exceed 15% of the cost of furniture and
equipment, or about US$400,000. Domestic equipment and furniture manufac-
turers tendering under international competitive bidding procedures would be
allowed a preferential margin equal to the prevailing tariff or 15% of the
c.i.f. cost of competitive imports, whichever were lower.
34.       The proposed loan/credit would be disbursed over a five-year period
as follows: (a) 60% of the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 85% of the cost of locally procured equipment, furniture, and the
cost of materials for completing construction of associated rural primary
schools; and (c) 100% of expenditures on technical assistance, fellowships,
upgrading teacher training courses, school mapping, and the bilingual study.
Disbursements from the loan would take place after the credit had been fully
disbursed or committed.
35.       Retroactive financing not exceeding US$100,000 is proposed for
payments made after June 1, 1976, to cover the starting-up costs for timely
execution of the project. The financing would cover expenses for survey of
local materials, labor availability for school construction, site survey and
school design.
Conclusions
36.       The improvement and expansion of Paraguay's rural education activ-
ities through the proposed project are expected to yield significant benefits
to the rural population. By helping educate the rural population at the pri-
mary and secondary levels, the proposed project would contribute to increasing
the future employment and earning opportunities among the lowest groups on
the income scale. Moreover, by educating the population in those areas where
colonization schemes are under way, the project would also contribute to
meeting the Government's objective of doubling rural family incomes within



- xi -
ten years. As a result, about 46,000 children, or 20% of the rural 7-12 age
group, would benefit from the provision of rural community learning centers
and associated rural primary schools. The completion of associated schools
under the project is an economic approach to community self-help, encouraging
the participation of parents and teachers in completing schools that they began
to construct but failed to complete because of lack of resources. About 2,000
rural teachers, equivalent to 90% of the unqualified rural teachers, would re-
ceive upgrading courses. Every student in rural primary schools would have a
textbook in each of the main study areas, in contrast to the present situation,
where only a few grade 1-4 and no grade 5-6 students have textbooks. In
addition, about 100 directors of rural community learning centers would be
trained in school supervision techniques and would be provided with trans-
portation to inspect associated schools more frequently.
37.       About 8,000 secondary school students (10% of national enrollment)
would benefit from the lower secondary schools to be built and equipped under
the project. About 250 directors, teachers and supervisors would receive up-
grading courses to enable them to implement the diversified curricula and to
use the new teaching aids and equipment provided. Through the provision of
technical assistance, the project would also contribute to the improvement of
national education planning, financing and administration. In addition the
education sector would benefit from the bilingual study included in the
project, which is expected to result in firm recommendations concerning the
impact of the Guarani language on teaching in rural schools.
38.       No major risks are foreseen.  As mentioned earlier (para. 34), the
shortage of qualified teachers willing to teach in rural areas which often
occurs in developing countries is not expected to develop in Paraguay. Re-
vised curricula for primary education are already being implemented in some
rural schools and should present no serious difficulties in project schools.
Additional recurrent expenditures for operating project schools would be mini-
mal since no substantial increase in the number of teachers would be required
because the majority of the project schools will involve replacement of
present buildings in bad condition, whose teachers would be transferred to
the new buildings. Architectural designs for project schools are being
financed under the Preinvestment Studies Project (Credit 587-PA) and are
based on available local construction materials and labor. Some delay in
project execution leading to higher project costs could occur if major cost
overruns on the large hydroelectric and infrastructure projects under execu-
tion in Paraguay were to materialize and the Government had to reduce other
budgetary expenditures to help meet the overruns.
Recommendation
39.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$8 million and an IDA credit of US$4 million to the Government of
Paraguay. The Bank loan would be for a term of 17 years, including a grace
period of three-and-a-half years, and the IDA credit would be on standard
terms.






I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND EDUCATIONAL IMPLICATIONS
Economic Development Strategy
1.01      With two-thirds of its 2.5 million population living in rural
areas, Paraguay is predominantly a rural-agricultural country. Agriculture
has been the mainstay of the economy, accounting in 1975 for about 38% of
GDP, 97% of export earnings and more than half of all employment. The manu-
facturing sector, which employs 15% of the labor force and provides 16% of
GDP, is predominated by agro-industries. Although one of the poorest coun-
tries in Latin America (US$570 per capita income in 1975), there exists
considerable potential for future growth based on the increased exploitation
of the country's endowment of fertile land, of which a limited proportion is
used, and the utilization of its vast hydroelectric resources. The economy
has grown rapidly in recent years (7.5% GDP growth during 1972-74), partic-
ularly in the agricultural sector (9% in 1973 and 1974).
1.02      The country's development strategy relies strongly on Paraguay's
comparative advantage in agriculture and aims at further diversification
of export crops and import substitution. Some of Paraguay's products -
soybeans, cotton, and oilseeds - are expected to have a strong demand in world
markets in the medium term; thus exports of agricultural and agro-industrial
products can be expected to be one of the main engines of growth during the
next five years. Of the 162,000 existing farm units, 97% are located in
eastern Paraguay; 100,000 of the latter are smaller than 10 hectares in size,
and about three-fifths of these are concentrated in the Asuncion area. For
both economic and social reasons, colonization has been encouraged, with about
300 colonies comprising 900,000 ha. established since 1960, benefiting one out
of every four agricultural workers. However, the living standards in these
colonies remain low, as much needed public support services such as credit,
expansion of housing, health and education have been inadequate. Extension
services, for example, cover only 12% of total farm units, and few educational
facilities and skill training opportunities are available. Therefore, tradi-
tional practices still predominate and the level of productivity remains low.
Increasing productivity of small and medium size farms is one of the long term
objectives of government programs, which will demand the adoption of profit-
able new technologies.
1.03      In addition to agriculture, exploitation of hydropower resources
through construction of two large projects jointly with Argentina and Brazil
will provide a plentiful source of energy and foreign exchange earnings.
Construction of the Itaipu, Yacyreta and Corpus dams will be a source of
growth in themselves as well as have multiplicative effects on the regional
economies. Given the proximity of the dams to large colonization zones, the
government will develop agro-industries and attract energy-intensive
industries to these areas.



-2-
Educational Implications
1.04      Implementation of the government's strategy for fostering economic
development through diversification and raising productivity, particularly
in the agricultural sector, will require the improvement and expansion of
rural education and training services to farmers and technicians to develop
new types of essential skills. The Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional
(SNPP), which is being expanded under the second Bank financed project (Loan
1252 T-PA), will serve as the principal instrument for nonformal training,
with the formal education system playing a long term role by providing the
basic education required to develop a trainable and adaptable labor force. In
1972 only 9% of the agricultural labor force had completed primary education
and 3% secondary education or higher. To attain the target of 5% annual
growth in the primary sector in the coming decade, productivity per worker
will have to increase at about 3% per year as compared with 1% in the past
10 years and basic educational levels will need to be raised accordingly.
Annual projections of agricultural workers required until 1985 have been
estimated at about 15,000 (8,000 additional workers plus 7,000 to substitute
for those leaving the labor force). The minimum increase in the educational
level of agricultural workers, to keep pace with improvements in the rest of
the labor force, would be from 15% to 40% per year in the number of primary
school graduates.
1.05      Rural areas in Paraguay have much lower educational opportunities
than urban areas and the rural education system is not in a position to
satisfy the abovementioned requirements. The majority of the rural schools -
about 87% - offer fewer than six grades of primary education and only 17%
of children enrolled in first grade complete primary education, as compared
with more than 45% for urban areas. Although there is a relatively large
number of rural schools - about 3,000 - few of them provide a good educational
environment. In addition, lack of textbooks and teaching materials and
irrelevant curricula contribute to high dropout and repetition rates in
rural schools. Therefore, although there are imbalances in access to school-
ing and in enrollment rates between rural and urban areas, at this stage
the principal problem seems to be unequal quality and efficiency of education.
The education requirements resulting from developments in agriculture and
other sectors could be attained if repetition and dropout rates were decreased.
Accordingly, on both socio-educational and economic grounds, there is a need
to develop education resources in rural areas: first, as a means of equal-
izing education opportunities; second, as part of a long term strategy for
providing the rural population with basic education and skills for successful
agricultural work and the introduction of more efficient production methods.
1.06      In addition to agricultural development aspects, other socio-
economic trends affecting regional development in Paraguay are of direct
relevance to educational development. The exploitation of the country's
untapped hydroelectric potential will be a source of increased employment
and will have a long term effect on the regional economy. Increasing contact
with the economies of neighboring Brazil and Argentina has intensified the
level of economic activity in frontier areas. Moreover, in the Paraguayan



context, where lack of adequate roads is a major bottleneck for economic
integration, the construction of two highways, Asuncion-Hernandarias (Eje
Este) and Asuncion-Encarnacion (Eje Sur), has been of particular importance
in orienting regional development.
1.07      These factors, together with the colonization program, have resulted
in the reorientation or intensification of migration flows toward certain
provinces such as some of those on the Parana River, San Pedro and Amambay,
and in the definition of new development areas. For example, between 1962 and
1972 the population of Alto Parana-Canendiyu, on the Parana River, has in-
creased five times as much as in the country as a whole; Amambay 2.5 and San
Pedro 1.6 times. This process poses a serious challenge to the education
sector, which is subjected to continuous heavy pressure to provide additional
educational infrastructure to areas receiving migration, besides new facili-
ties to accommodate the current expansion of enrollments. Increased educa-
tional investment is required in frontier areas, which pose special problems
of a political-cultural nature involving the conservation of the national
language and culture. Provision of rural primary school facilities and
improvement of basic education in provinces which are a focus of migration
and within the so-called "development areas" or "poles" are therefore a prior-
ity. The proposed project will assist in meeting this priority need, improve
the provision of educational services at the lower secondary level in semirural
towns, and assist the government in further improvements of the efficiency of
the educational system.



- 4 -
II.   EDUCATION SECTOR
General
2.01      The Paraguayan education system comprises four levels:  preprimary,
primary, secondary and higher, with the Ministry of Education responsible for
all levels except higher education and formal agricultural education (Annex
II-1). Private institutions account for 15% of primary school enrollment, 38%
of secondary school enrollment and 37% of higher education enrollment. Various
types of nonformal education and training are provided by the Ministries of
Education, Agriculture, Justice and Labor, Health and other public institutions.
Overview of the Education System
2.02      The formal education and training system of Paraguay is handicapped
by structural imbalances and qualitative deficiencies. The government has
consistently underspent on education - only 13% of total public expenditures
in 1975, or about US$11 per capita, which is low compared with other countries
at a similar per capita income level (Annex II-2). Moreover, the impact of
government spending in education is impaired by the low efficiency of the
system. High dropout and repetition rates are reflected by nationwide comple-
tion rates of only 26% at the primary level and 41% at secondary level. These
figures imply that roughly 40% of annual operating expenditures are spent on
those who fail to complete their studies within the expected period. Low
efficiency is particularly acute in rural areas due to incomplete primary
schools, lack of teaching materials, and the irrelevance of curricula. The
government is now implementing its strategy for improving efficiency in rural
primary education and thus improving student flows through the system (Annex
II-3). In addition, many children in rural areas speak only Guarani and have
difficulty in adapting to teaching in Spanish. It is estimated that about
two-thirds of the 120,000 school age children outside the education system are
in rural areas.
2.03      Primary school enrollment has increased at the rate of 2.8% per year
over the past 10 years. This is slightly higher than the 2.6% rate of popula-
tion growth. In 1974 about 82% (360,000) of the 7-12 age group was enrolled
in primary schools, but only 34% of the total enrollment was in the grade
corresponding to age. In addition to the 7-12 age group, about 100,000 overage
students (13 years old and above) were enrolled in primary schools, giving a
gross 105% of the 7-12 age group in school (Annex II-4). This was due to a
high repetition rate and late entry.  In addition to these problems, the
opportunity for a full six grade primary education in rural areas is limited.
About 75% of the students remain in the first three grades; only a few (36%)
entering grade 1 reach grade 4 (the minimum literacy level); and only 17 out
of 100 complete grade 6. There is no lack of motivation to attend school on
the part of either parents or children; but there is a lack of rural schools
which offer complete primary education (68% are incomplete), relevant curri-
culum, furniture, basic teaching materials and equipment. Moreover, rural
teachers need upgrading. Although the majority of teachers (70%) have teaching



- 5 -
certificates, they have not been trained to work in a rural environment. They
are inadequate when they have to (a) deal with bright rural children who have
broad experience in agriculture but limited familiarity with urban life; (b)
simultaneously teach two or three age groups; and (c) help improve living
conditions in rural communities. Moreover, rural teachers are largely unsuper-
vised, and only by chance are they informed of new educational trends. Aware
of this, the government has recently developed an education strategy including
the establishment of areas educativas, or the nuclei school administration
and spacing system, consisting of well equipped community learning centers
surrounded by associated schools; the implementation of innovative curricula;
the upgrading of teachers; the provision of teaching materials (including
textbooks); and the establishment of a more effective decentralized super-
vision. The proposed project would assist the government in executing this
strategy.
2.04      Secondary school enrollment has increased by 8.3% per year during
the past ten years. In 1974 the total was about 72,000, or 19% of the 13-18
age group (Annex II-4). Since overage students account for about 8,000, the
net enrollment represents only 17% of the relevant age group population, which
is low by South American standards. While the private sector contributes very
little (15%) to primary education, in secondary education the figure is about
38% because students at this level come mainly from wealthy families. Second-
ary education is provided principally for urban children (46% of total enroll-
ment in Asuncion) and should be expanded and improved in semirural areas. The
structure and content of secondary education have recently been changed to make
the system more responsive to the economic and social needs of the country.
The curricula for the lower cycle (grades 7-9) include prevocational (30%)
and general education subjects to prepare students for entrance into either
the upper secondary cycle or short vocational courses leading to employment.
The upper secondary cycle (grades 10-12) is diversified: academic-scientific
streams or technical courses in areas such as agriculture, mechanics and elec-
tricity. To implement these programs, well equipped multilateral schools are
being established under the first IDA education project. Regional Education
Centers have been completed with USAID assistance and the government plans to
expand and equip existing secondary schools. Teachers for secondary education
are trained in the Institute of Higher Education, which has satisfactory facil-
ities and staff. However, in-service teachers need to be upgraded in new
teaching techniques, including the use of equipment now being made available.
2.05      Formal technical education, which has been limited to evening
classes in one school at the upper secondary level, is being improved. The
Ministry established a department of vocational and technical education in
1974, as well as a technical committee made up of representatives of govern-
ment and industry to assure output of graduates in accordance with manpower
needs. Under the first, IDA-financed education project, the government is
constructing and equipping a national technical institute and four multi-
lateral schools for training technicians at the upper secondary level. A
team of eight international technical specialists is helping the government



- 6-
in curriculum development, preparation of teaching materials, and training
of counterparts. Although the Institute of Higher Education is implementing
a training program for industrial arts teachers and is sending abroad for
upgrading some 20 teachers of mechanics and electricity, the operation of
the new technical institute will require about 40 additional technical
teachers. They should be trained by 1978, when the schools are expected
to be in full operation.
2.06      Agricultural education and training are organized and administered
by the Ministry of Agriculture. Seven regional agricultural education centers
offer courses at the lower secondary level (grades 7-9) to about 200 students;
and one private agricultural school at the upper secondary level (grades 10-
12) to 150 students. IDB is assisting the government in improving and expand-
ing these schools, which (except for the private school) do not at present
begin to meet the middle level manpower needs in agriculture.
2.07      The training of teachers for primary and secondary education comprises
four years of study at the post secondary level. On the completion of the
first two years, trainees receive a certificate which entitles them to teach
in primary schools or to enroll in the next two year training cycle, which
will qualify them for teaching in secondary schools. Evaluation of this pro-
gram, which began in 1974, is not expected until 1978. At present 13 institu-
tions offer primary teacher training courses and one, the Institute of Higher
Education, offers training courses for both primary and secondary teachers.
The approximately 500 graduates per year are about 10% in excess of the present
demand for teachers. To implement the new curricula for primary and secondary
education it is imperative that upgrading courses for in-service teachers,
supervisors, and administrators be expanded and improved.
2.08      In addition to teacher training, higher education is provided at
two autonomous universities (one public, one private). It is largely oriented
toward conventional specialization in the humanities and some sciences. Of
the total enrollment of 13,000, engineering accounts for 14%, medical science
for 12%, agriculture for 5%, and liberal and fine arts, education, and philos-
ophy for 69%. IDB plans to finance a second project for the expansion and
improvement of the national university. Identification of such project, for
which about US$98,000 has been allocated, will start soon.
2.09      In Paraguay women have roughly equal access to formal education.  In
preprimary education the enrollment of girls represents 51% of the total; in
primary education, 47%; in lower secondary education, 48%; and in upper
secondary education, 54%. Women enrolled in teacher training courses reach as
high as 90% of the total, which reflects the predominance of women in the
teaching force. Also, at the university level the enrollment of women is
about 42% of the total. In addition, some adult nonformal education programs
are designed to assist women in improving their living conditions by means of
literary courses and training geared toward increasing their productivity and
access to cash income.



- 7-
Nonformal Education and Training
2.10      Nonformal education and training programs are offered mainly in
major cities. Literacy courses, administered by the Ministries of Education,
Interior and Defense, are mainly available to the urban population, despite
the fact that illiteracy is more acute in rural areas. Agricultural exten-
sion services are limited to farmers who produce cash crops. Vocational
training is concentrated in Asuncion. Only in recent years has the govern-
ment given priority to nonformal education and vocational training for the
rural population. The National Vocational Training Service (SNPP), with
Bank assistance (Loan 1252 T-PA), would increase its vocational training
capacity and would emphasize the extension of training services at a lower
cost to a broader segment of the population in rural and urban areas. The
government further proposes to establish rural community learning centers
where formal primary education and nonformal basic education and vocational
training would be provided. The proposed project would assist the government
in the establishment of these centers.
Planning and Management
2.11      Education planning is the responsibility of the Planning Department
of the Ministry of Education. An Educational Development Plan 1969-80 was
published early in 1970. The first phase covering the 1969-74 period has
been implemented and evaluated. Most of the objectives and targets have been
reached. Emphasis has been given to improving and expanding secondary educa-
tion by including prevocational courses in lower secondary education and
establishing diversified or multilateral secondary schools to better prepare
graduates for entry into the labor force or for further specialization. The
first IDA financed education project was designed to assist in meeting this
objective. Also the teacher training program was improved by transferring it
from secondary education to the higher education level. USAID and UNESCO have
provided substantial financial and technical assistance for implementing this
program. Recently the government has been reformulating the second phase of
its Education Development Plan for the 1975-80 period to reconcile it with
the National Development Plan and to accord higher priority to the problems
of the poorer segments of the population. The revised Plan emphasizes formal
and nonformal education and training for rural children and adults and expan-
sion of relevant prevocational secondary education in semirural towns.
2.12      Education administration (Annex II-5) is highly centralized.  With
little delegation of responsibility, the Minister himself often has to resolve
minor problems. The lack of appropriately qualified professional staff and of
proper administrative regulations and manuals, together with the poor physical
facilities of the Ministry of Education, is an obstacle to improving the
situation. At present the Ministry is operating in an old, one story govern-
ment building surrounded by 12 rented annexes in the vicinity, all in sub-
standard condition and ill-suited to public offices. As a result there is
confusion in the Ministry and all personnel have to contend with the physical
limitations of the buildings whereas the physical facilities should be designed
to conform to the needs of the various departments of the Ministry. The



- 8 -
Minister plans to remedy this by implementing an upgrading program, both with-
in the country and abroad, for administrative staff and by constructing a new
building for the Ministry of Education. The project would support this up-
grading program. The new building will be delayed until the Ministry of
Education obtains the necessary financing.
Cost and Finance
2.13      A low level of public expenditure in education is one of the
distinctive features of Paraguay: public education expenditures have
oscillated around a low 2% share of GDP in the last five years (Annex II-6)
and in 1975 they amounted to US$11 per capita, which is low compared with
the average level in Latin America. Since enrollment rates, particularly in
primary education, are relatively high in spite of this low level of expen-
ditures, the quality of education has severely suffered: poorly paid
teachers, lack of teaching materials, and unsatisfactory school buildings
for many years have been a common feature of public education in Paraguay.
2.14      Since 1972, in an effort to reverse a history of underinvestment,
the central government has been increasing capital expenditures in education.
The capital budget of the Ministry of Education jumped from ¢ 51.7 million
million (US$410 thousand) in 1969 to ¢ 407.2 million (US$3.2 million) in 1974,
reaching ¢ 674.9 million (US$5.3 million) in 1976, that is, from 2.2% to 15%
and 10% of central government capital expenditures, respectively (Annex II-6).
Although this rapid increase was made possible through foreign financing,
capital expenditures from local sources were also sensibly increased - reach-
ing US$1.5 million in 1975, of which US$1 million was applied to matching
foreign USAID and Bank Group loans. The main investment projects, carried out
through joint government/foreign agencies effort, have been closely linked to
the reform of basic and secondary education. Priority has been given to
construction and equipment of primary schools, regional centers and teacher
training facilities (US$6 million, USAID project), multilateral and technical
secondary schools and vocational training centers (US$7 million, IDA project),
secondary agricultural schools (US$2.1 million, IDB project) and rural primary
schools (US$1 million, within an IDA rural development project). Besides
construction and equipment, these projects are also designed to support
curriculum development activities through technical assistance and to improve
the quality of teaching resources.
2.15      Regarding Ministry of Education recurrent expenditures, progress has
been made within the limits imposed by a relatively low share of the central
government's recurrent budget.  In the past seven years the central government
has devoted between 17% to 19% of its recurrent budget to education - 16 to
18.5% allocated to the Ministry of Education. Both past trends and expen-
diture projections suggest that the education share of the recurrent budget
will remain at a similar relatively moderate level in the future (Annex II-6).
However, this would allow the Ministry of Education to increase its recurrent
expenditures at a good pace, by 7% to 8% per year (in real terms), if the recent
rapid economic growth rate continued. The targets of the educational develop-
ment plan have been set on that basis. The main problems that need to be



- 9 -
solved within the framework of the education recurrent budget are the unsatis-
factory level and structure of teachers' salaries and the lack of teaching sup-
plies and school maintenance. Teachers' salaries, low at all levels of educa-
tion, seriously deteriorated during the high inflation years of 1973 and 1974.
The salary of a qualified primary education teacher (US$63 per month), for
example, is lower than the minimum salary for laborers (Annex II-7). A
significant proportion of teachers in public schools hold posts with a salary
level below that commensurate with their qualifications and are financed
directly by the communities. A current solution is the employment of teachers
in double shifts, particularly in rural schools, as a way of increasing
incomes and attracting teachers to rural areas. Moreover, since 1975 the
Ministry of Education has been implementing a new salary scale under the
Escalafon law aimed at improving the level of teachers' salaries and estab-
lishing economic incentives for in-service training, teaching in rural
areas, and community and extracurricular activities. The application of
the Escalafon law has been slow, however (Annex II-8). By 1976 only 2% of
primary education teachers and 10% of other teachers were benefiting from it.
Although implementation of the Escalafon law is due to accelerate in 1977, its
application is likely to be completed later than the 1979 target date. In a
further effort to improve the situation of teachers, since 1976 special
allowances have been granted to teachers in rural or frontier areas or those
in charge of multigrade classes. This, together with the implementation of
the Escalafon law, represented one percent of the recurrent budget. Finally,
although teachers' salaries remain low, in 1975 and 1976 they have been
increased at a higher rate than consumer prices.
2.16      Other favorable trends are apparent in the allocation of the re-
current budget (Annex II-9). Secondary education, which has the lowest
share of the public sector as compared with the private sector, together
with adult education has increased its share of the recurrent budget in the
1969-76 period. The program for production of textbooks and teaching
materials, nonexistent in 1969, in 1976 represents 0.6% of the recurrent
budget. Finally, 40% of the teacher training share of the recurrent budget
(2% in 1976) is allocated to the Institute of Higher Education (ISE), which
is responsible for improving teacher education and training. Its budget has
increased by about 60% per year in the past three years. The remaining 60%
finances teacher training programs at 13 public institutions.
2.17      Not much progress has been made with regard to teaching supplies and
school maintenance, so important for education improvement: they accounted
for less than 2% of the recurrent budget in 1974, a slight decrease as com-
pared with 1970 (Annex II-10). In primary education the situation was only
slightly better than at other education levels. Both this factor and the
low level of teachers' salaries are manifested in relatively low unit recurrent
costs per student: ¢ 2,855 (US$23), despite a relatively low student/teacher
ratio of about 31:1 (Annex II-11). Ministry of Education projections of expen-
diture allow for a 3.5% annual increase in unit costs per year to meet the
increased costs in salaries and other inputs. At this stage, however, the
problem of school supplies and maintenance is still to be tackled, and local
communities are expected to play a role.



- 10 -
2.18      To sum up, trends in use of the recurrent budget, particularly with
regard to teachers' salaries, are expected gradually to improve the quality of
teaching resources provided that future growth of the economy, on which the
education budget depends, fulfills expectations. However, with needs so vast,
a significant quantitative change will be achieved only after a long period
of cumulative effort.
2.19      In response to the scarcity or poor quality of government supplied
education resources, private expenditures on education through local communi-
ties are making an important contribution to the financing of public schools
by:
(a) initiating construction of new schools through the supply of
labor and materials. In 1976, in three provinces surveyed,
it was found that as many as 77 schools had been started
that way and were awaiting completion;
(b) paying teachers (about 10% of teaching positions), though
generally at less than the official rate; and
(c) contributing to the Asociacion Cooperadora and the Caja
Escolar, whose funds are used mostly for the purchase
of school materials.
The total of these three types of contribution was estimated to be about
t 219.1 million (US$1.7 million), or 8% of the Ministry of Education budget,
in 1975. The contribution to school construction per se represented as much
as 31% of the capital budget (Annex II-12).
2.20      Both construction and teacher financing impose a heavy burden on
communities living on a bare subsistence level and prevent them from contrib-
uting to such crucial areas as textbooks, teaching materials and school main-
tenance. The Ministry of Education, through the Department of Construction of
Schools, provides communities with standard school designs and occasional
civil works supervision, but is unable to provide needed financial support.
Completion of construction of community buildings is therefore delayed. The
proposed program would help solve this problem by financing completion of
some 77 selected rural schools which form part of the project nuclei system.
In addition, the government is taking steps to substitute gradually public
financing of teachers for community paid salaries, thus relieving the commu-
nity's burden and channeling its resources to the area of badly needed teaching
materials, site development and school maintenance.
2.21      No precise figures are available on expenditures in private education.
Enrollments in private schools represent a high 38% in secondary education but
only 15% in primary education. With unit student costs assumed to be 15%
higher than those in public education, private expenditures in primary and
secondary education would add about 21% to recurrent expenditures for public
education. Since higher education is mostly government financed while govern-
ment participation in secondary education is low, children from higher income



- 11 -
families probably have a better opportunity to finish secondary school; thus
public funds in effect subsidize university students from well-to-do families.
To improve the distribution of education opportunities the public sector must
expand its share in secondary education. Ongoing government efforts at this
level would make a significant contribution to that end.
Bank Group's Role in Education and Training
2.22      The basic objective of Bank Group lending to the education sector
in Paraguay is to support the government's efforts to expand the availability
of formal and nonformal education throughout the country and to improve its
quality by making it more relevant to the manpower requirements of the economy.
The first Bank Group education project (Credit No. 347-PA) is a key component
of Paraguay's overall educational reform program and was designed to assist
the government in developing a more effective system of secondary and voca-
tional education. The second project (Loan No. 1252 T-PA) is designed to
meet Paraguay's urgent need for nonformal vocational training programs through-
out the country. The proposed project represents a continuation of the Bank
Group's effort in the sector and would assist the government in improving and
extending educational opportunities to the rural population.



PARAGUAY
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM 1975
UNIVERSITIES
TEACHER TRAINING
r77777Z7  Instituti-ns Ircluded
in Proposed Project
Dropout Route                                     DIVERSIFIED
CYCLE
TECHNICIANS
BASIC CYCLE                                                                        g00g:0g000fi:.;:   t E     
NON FORMAL        _
VOCATIONAL                                                                         t00 EDUCATION               SKI LLED
AND                     AND
_CULTURAL                                                            TRAINING               SEMI-SKILLED
VWORKERS
GIRLS 99*E                                                                                            " UADULT
P R E                                                  G t R LS                                                                            0 0 dEDUCATION
PRIMARY                     PRIMARY
tit 00 ;00 t;UNSKILLED
L  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   _- -~ -  -  ----0E :ti tti00  ORKERS
ILLITERATES
2     3     4      5      6       7     8      9        10    11    12       13    14    15    16    17   18                                                              >
7     8      9    10    11    12        13    14    15        16    17   18        19    20   21    22    23    24                                                               t
PRIMARY EDUCATION           I            SECONDARY EDUCATION                         HIGHER EDUCATION                 NON FORMAL            LABOR FORCE
World Bank-15656(RI



CWGPARATIRE EDUJCATION tNDICATORS                                                   AM)E  II-2
UBEUUUEUSUSZSUUS.RUUUUSSWSUUUUSS                                l~~age I of 2
(NOVEMBER to, 1976I
SNP/ I K GNP   IX TOTAL:%  Of PUBLIC  a                  I        I            PRI. iAV.PRI.                             $  SEC 2 
I        aCAPITAm  DEVOTED:PUBLIC  3 EDUCATION    tLITER- IPRI. ICOMPLE.  tSTU-  iSCH.TEACmiPRO6RIESS-j SEC. %51U- I                                 I
I        i  AT   i TO EDU,a   EXP. : RECURRENT    sACS              iENROLLiTION         IDENTS:8ALARY INtION RATE  iENRULLi(1ENTS:H1IGHIER:
I        IIMARKET? (PUSLICODEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATEDS   RATE  aRATID  IRATE FORaPER   iRELATION  IFROM PRI.tRATIO  tPER   2ENRULL:
IPOP. IPRICE31 EXP.    i  TO    I             TO?        t11 OF   INET   IPRI.&CH.tTEACHi  TO GNP/ :10 SEC.                 NET   :TEACI1- kAT1IO
YRI (000)  I (USS)m  ONLY)   IEDU. IPRI. 3EC. HI,IADULTS)o (K    ICYCLE(X3ER    : CAPITA   i  (%)                             a CI    zfk          1
a(1) a:   12        ( 3)    ,   (43   I       (63          (6)   it (7)   3  (8)   It(9) *  (30)                (11)      :112)   :(131  2(14)
AD VA NCED
AUSTRIA      7~~~3 7.9  3.910          9.1      9.9      97Q  250   200    99          98        93         26        2.0         99         91       19       8.00
CANADA            72   22.10  5,4135iD      7.7    19,R       30    36    19       98       89        98        24         2.0         99        82        17       Y.100
GERMANY F.REP.72   61.00 5,`Sao0            4.2    :9.2       ***   74** 26        99       91        99         33                    99        9i        22      17.(uCY
JAPAN             71 108.31U 3,630(1        4.3    20 .7      39    Is    12       99       q9u(      99C       29C        2.0         991       941)     ?IC    26.1000
NETHERLANDS    72   13.14D 4,311)b         S.%    19.IG    12    96    19          99       QS        96         29        9.0         97        71       201    12.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    2.9   3.68:1           6.2    ...        39    24    29       99       99        99        26          .          99        67        (9     24.1(Jo
NORWAY            7    1.90 4,66110       7.0    :65.2       -sB    23    13      99       99        98        20         3.9         99        76        14      13.110
SWEDEN            73    8.1t  5,91o        8.9    16.11       36    14    13      99        99        99         17        ..          9(        85       10      30o. 00
U.K.              72  S9.00( 3.01610        6.3    3 2.7      26    39    22       98       99        ...       26         2.0         ...       63        17      33.00
U.S.A.            72 210.40 6,2010D         6.1    16.4       ...   II** 27        99       99        99         ?SU       2. 0        ..          3       f911    29.0o
EURUPE
GR-EECE           71    8.9D1 ,870D         2.2    31.1       649   29Y   14Y    82A        969       ...       32        ...          111       s80      93Y    11.11
IRELAND           72    3. On 2.36Q0       6.3I    13.9D    43Y  919   149    98           97         99A       36        ..           958       75       19       7.0oA
PURTUGAL          72    9.110D 3,4300....    .-               ...e...          ... ..          3y..                       ....                   6x         .        .601
SPAIN             71  364.7D 11,711D0    2.98   36,.2A    49Y  229   169y   94A             918       ..         SA       ...          . ..      290      30        6.006
AFRICA
ALGERIA     ~~~76r  P1.7     7 78      7.19    ...       411   321   1181    30        76        62E        02E       6.91I       '491       17       25       Li. 00
BENIN             73    2.9      Ill       S. 3    52.0       47    23    10       11I      32XB      70 OR       ON      24.08        0331        76      090      0.44CY
BOTSWANA          70    0.7      3013      I0. :    2(1. 0    38    20    169    26         70X       75        36         6.0         24        110       18       u.30Y
BURUNDI           74    S.6;      92!      2.6    39,90    47R   938   12R    I 0           2011      30i?       38       30(.0(       19          20      18       1.0
CAMEROON          73    6.2      2593       6,9    20).0      38Y  29Y   179        .       70                  SIDY1    ....                              2319    0.9011
C.4.R.            711    1.7o    160D(    1I.0N   20.0        66    19                      64CY      26        661       ..            8           l     2 109Y     v179
CR00        ~~~ ~~761   4.1)0    8Ro0  3.0    30.0       78    22             I'3s     29080    30)         669g     19.0           8         2009   30        0.01b9
CONGU(B)          7'1    3.9     96:)       6.: o    9.3      90    32    21       60?    133X        63         63        6.0         08        330       22       3.90
EGYPT             74  36.')      281        6. 3     ...      29    36    24       90       700       AS         40       ..           60        390       28      11.01)
ETHIOPIA          73   26.6       .9o       3.1   211.0       42    29    18        7       17C       42        90o        3.0         63          2       30       u.20
GABON             76    0.6   1,31:)       6. ::    211.6     25      9    It      ..     34X0        251       06C        6. 0        18A       201       ?IC      1.4019
GHANA             71    9. -it   30:1       II. 7    29.4DR   3811   190   2301    ..       56010    62          3010                  IQ 1       ILX      lACY    0.74319y
IVORY COAST    72    6.310    38oD(    6.3    24.7            2780  33BY 139        90     52         97A       06        ..             .       10       ?5        1.20B9
MENyA             73   12.4      3 79       6.4N   27.10      63    13    13       90       73        .. .       OI         .           0         12       23       3.0309
LESOTlO     ~~~79r   1.2     1 lIoN    12.1lP   23.0     49    18    20       40       86i       611        62         7. ON      81         10Q      26       3.00
LIBERIA           76   1.6       91 0       2.11   33.2       27    16    20       73       68        ...        39        2.0         ...        1 2      20       1.1L08A0
MADAGASCAR        70    S. 6     190ID      3.2    22 .1      9I    20P   26       110      680       3t        63S       16r.0        1)0         90      26      31(10 
MALAWI            71   '1 .8( SD    I IO    3.3    2:1.9... .....    26                     660       61)       r (1       7.0         41          00I     2 0      0.2bCY
MALI              704    .9in     70(D      9.6N  32. 3       368   62B8  328    III        388       228k      90A       I39.08       378         08      170      I,16AY
MAURIIAN1A        7"1   1.2D    2000        I '.5    21.0.3...                 ..  I0       161)      ...        22 a       .           .          3       294
MAURITIUS         72    u1.8D   I91I00D     3. 7    t I.70    73D   9 I80 0                 86        99         33 1                  ...         1       3 0      ;:.Icy
MOROCCO           7 4 16.9       32:1       6. OC   36.6      449   47      9      26?      640       21I       37         ..           3        130      23        2. (10
NIGERIA           7 17 7.2(1    231 OD      3.2N   ...        9138   248   208    ...       39011    .. .        3419      ...         ...         9      2011      0.37CY
RWANDA            73    3.9(1     70(1     3.21   28.0D1... .... 23                         62        S..       9 I         ..          .          2       11       ,i . e ALY
SENEGAL           7 1   'A . 10   280(1     ll.:N  22.6(1R   38A  412A    68    to          3811                4 . 6      ...         ...       11I0     25        3.711Y
SIERRA LEONE   73    2.7         160       3q13    23.9       31    36    30       16       340       96        32         :1.00       68        130      21        v.538Y
SOMALIA           76    6.2      11113      3. 70   30.80    990   1611  1902   60?         340       86        39        111.0        60          3       1s5      0.10 
SUDAN             7?   17 .00    I3:on      '1.     I3, 2     493    29    28      Is       38        76r        46        9. 0        25        1 1      2 0       1.230
SWAZILAND         76    0.6      91340     94.9    38,0       37    3 1    13     50o       7 0       90        38         1.0         84        19q      2 2       2.00
TANZANIA          74   116.21     hoc      6.16   17.0        36    .. .  12       63       4490      ...       09         .. .         7         21      211       0.30
TUNISIA           73    69(1D   96(3(      6. 3    23. 4      37    43    18      569       72       a81        031        6.0         Si        10       2 1       3 .Il0
UGANDA            711  10.8(1    361(1     S. 2N      7 .6CR   4)0   P22    260    266      98010    . ..       36         ...         308         9010   21 i       .96110
UPPER VOLTA    72    6.70         700D   £4.3    21.9         66    10      6A      5       I10       ...       49        18.1)       21)          2      23        Q.01118
ZAIRE             71  23.9       1913      9.2CN  21 .3C    991   171   291    36           63        38        0446       6. 0        93         8       240       6.96310
ZAMBIA            79    'l.7     982       95.3    : 42       34    18 a   16      43       88        Rul       87         9.0o        2:1       II       22        1.110
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
COSTA RICA        71  11.80li   730D1    6.2    22.7          67    26    1 2      89       0619Y     65        29         3. 0        68        2214    25        1 2.1119c 
DOMINICAN 31EP.72   94 . /I   61200         3.':    33.9      42    24    22       61      All        3 17       S 4       3.01)       63         13S.S    204      7. 00
EL SALVADOR    76    1.7(1    353(1         3.6    23.8       6 1     5    22      609      631'      ...       3919Y      ...         39         111)1    2 19    6 .35319
GUATEMALA         79    .1;      600So      1.9    36.u       66    23    394    47         64        26        'S 6       3. 0        69          8       295      ' 6.099
HAITI             72   94.9(1    130(1     :.9       6.6D1   61    11       a8    208       22        26?       46         9. 0        50          3       23       3.110 ?
HONDURAS          72    2.7(1    32330      3. 9    26.6(1    64    1      18a    92        81        18k I      37        6.1)        75         14X      104      3.00
JAIMAICA          72    1 .90    99o(1      6.69Y  19.7       33Y  22Y    79y   86         10116 19   ...       6 2        ..           .         1299    1 9       8.79Y
MExICO            7:1)  66.ll(D    89:1D    2.6      9.3      59    29    32a    76         7 1       31         1146      1.0         63-        I        2 3      6.'3219Y
NICARAGUA         741   2.0(1    694(       2.9    304.2      6    1 33            6 ,7     66"       2 1        37        2. 0        9 3        1 7      20U      7 .110
TRINIDAD & T. 71   3I.0D(13.310(           I.    1.9          63    27    1 2     90        960       8 7       39         9.0         19        9 9       29       2.56AY
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA           76    5.8       315F      5.0    17.31.         .     .         38        17B       29D       24         31?         -.          45      18D0       .
BRAZIL            70  301.10    7600       9.    12.01    42    20          37    79        800        . .      27CY       ..                    Ise381    1519    6.00B
CHILE             72   10.2(1    120D       4.6Y   10.6A9   369   114Y  36Y    ...    I II XDY        ...       3769       ..          ...       98        ..01)1 
COLOMBIA          70   22.60    49100      £1.1     3 0.9     36i    18    20      73       67        20        36          .0         90        1 7       10 4     8.0 0
ECUADOR           7 2   6.7(1   '380D       3. 7    27.7C    4609  4209  1009   69          72        ...       38         ..           .         8        1 4      49780
GUYANA            7     0u.7     4110D      S . ON   14.7Q    97    36    1 4      836      928       39        33         6.          19          20x     249      ,, 100
PARAGUAY          79    2.940    374        3.8    13t. 0     56    1 3    22    a81       82         26        350        1 .9        65        3 7      1         5.100
PERU              71 3114.D    620(1        13.9    24.1ID    50    22    1s      72       80         38        39DY       1. 0        70        30       230Y   12. 00
VENEZUELA         73   1 1.2   3,630        4.6    39,9       3009  280   350    77 6      81         ..        33         2. 4        . ..      33       ...    12.63CY



-14 
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INOICATONS  (CONTO
UUUSUUUUUUSU*gUEUg.uUmUOgu.m*                             ~~~~~ANNEX II-2
MOVEMSV  10,  1976                                ~~~~~~~~P.&. 2 of 2
I  GNP/ aI GN7P  aSUTOTAL:%oIOA;U1LIC                                         :F aIRI: ;AV.R. BI                      IE 
I        CAPITA  DEVOTEBPULIC aEUCATION                 TE-aR.   CML- SU  *CTACPORE-    EC *YU a
a   a  AT  a~~ TO EDU.3  EXP. i RECURUENT    RACY          IENRDLLITION       IDENTSISALARY INSION RATE aENRULLIDENTSIHIGHEH1:
a   aARRETa  (PUSLICmOEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATEDI  RATE aRATIO IRATE FORaPER   IRLATION aFRUM PRI,SRATIO aPER  SENRULL:
aPOP. aPRICESI E$2P.    I  10    a         TON       mI(  OF  a NET  IPRI.SCH.ITEACHS  TO GNP/ aTO SEC.   I NET  aTEACH- RATIU:
YR I(00ol  I (U3S)a dBLY)   I  EDU. aPRI. SEC. Nl.sADULTS)i (I)  ICYCLEMS)ER    a CAPITA   a  (1                        (%)  sER   aIo
I  5     I          U ~ ~             ~       ~    ~ ~ ~~             ~ ~ I  I  I  I  I  a     I           I        a      I
a(1) it  (2) a  (3)    a  (4)  I           (5)      I (6)    a (7)1  Ca()    a Ce)1 a   10)    a (Ill            aCI2)   1(131  al14)
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHAN;IST_AN    7 4    16.3    9at     ..               39P  2SF   16P    10        261      24        41        5.0        78         8x    21        1.0(1
BANGLADESN      73  74. 0       80      1.2   20.2........   23                      560        .       48        ...        ...      23X      28       ..
CHINACTAIWAN) 73 '15.4         660      1.2   ¶14.o      28   41   22       82       9aC      94        40       14.0        84       61C      26     2o.0oC
INDIA           71 581.90    120D       Z.6VY **...      I...            .   9       79X      ...       43A       ...        ..       2B0      20AY    4 . 0 A y
INDONESIA       73 124.4D    IIOD       i.e ~11*         63   '23   '14     62       63       40        12        5.0        91        12      16      2 .0 0
IRAN            73  32.1    870         3.3    12.6      50S  .188  12      50       77 -' 74A          32        5.08       BOA      24       32      4.32Co
IRAQ            72  lo.4D   B5o50       6.7    16.3DR....... 26                      61Cf    ...        22        ...        ...      2bXCY  26        6.2BCY
JURDAN          73   2.9       340      7.0)    8,8      52    is   21      59       911      76        18        5.0        04       501      22      4.0 0
KOREA           73  32.9       4 04     2.9    20.2      64   26      a    92        97"   90           53        3.0        71        46      37      6. 00
LEBANON         72   2.9D    940D    3.5    1A,O         39   40    to    68         86       65        19        2.0        63       26U      25     23.(0
MALAYSIA        74  11t. 7     670      6. 4    2A.0     44   32    it    60C        96F      90        32        4.00)      AlP      44F      27F     3. OOF
OMAN            72   0.60    8400       1.7N    3.8      96     -   -       20       24X      99        33        7.0        ...      0.41      9       ..
PAKISTAN        75  66.20    1 200      1.6   I16. 2     4-5  25S   18      21       471      so        39        2. 0       ...       17X     I a     6 . 00
PAPIJA N.G.     75    2. 6     410      5.6    16.1      38    16   24      32       S7?      73P       It       21. 0       40       122?    24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES   14  40.2D   2800          2. 5    24, 9    73    15   12      87      1040      ...       34)      25.0        ...      06X      ...   21 .00
SINGAPORE       72   2.20 0,8300        3.2    16t.2     44   31    i's    750       969      724       33        ...        99A      57Y    24        8.250
THAILAND        73  39.0      270       4.UNF 20.7F    65       9    15     82       870      93C       32        3 . 0u     41C      210      24      2 .0 0
TURKEY          72  37.90    6000       .. .    1 3.UDR .......                   l  OSOCY    ...       34DY      ...        I...     22XY    271)Y   5.31BY
YEMEN           73   6. 3      20O0     11 .5    4, 0    45P  21P  23P    1 0        150      18a       36        5 .0       75        21      1 9     0.0589
YEM4EN P.D.R.  72    2 .5      2100i(   2.3A   12.6      79    12           to1      70x      31        29       [0. 0      44        120      20      0.08AY
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES1                    74     71       69   68   68       69       77       53        76          SI      54        77       73        73
RAGE                              f0.. 0-3. 8-   (25-  t 00   00-    Is-      (10-      (27-     u9-        (1.8 -    (7-       (.4 -    (9-     CulI-
12. OP 0  32.3 )  96I1 52)  40)   981         18001    99 1    6-5 1         5.9      4419      75. 0    43)     25.0)
QUARTILES:UPPER t                     5.2    22.2 I    55    31   22      75      87        75        06          A       Bui       29      26       6. 0
MEDIANS                   '1 .1    28I#.0u    45    23    5   50o     72        50s       38          9       63        1 6     23       2.(00
LOwER i                   3.0    2 3.9     38   26    12      21      '52       30O       35          3       25         9      20        *9
-;AOLS:... --T---UN-     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -          - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
SYMMOLS:...  DATUM UN~AVAILABLE          AU1970 OR BEFORE             M:CURRENT PRICES                           SOURCES:
mAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 821971                             NsGDP
7QUESTIONABLE                      C-1972                       POINCLUDING FOREIGNAICLUNIAD2   IL   AEALA
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                             0XCENTRAL GOVT. ONLY AIULMSt    N                               2 lARIND MISSIONS
**CrJMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E01974                       RsMINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MUE) ONLY                    3 TO 14 1AMO MISSIONS
F-1975i                     SSMOE AND STATE GOAT. ONLY                                     ANL/OAR UNESCU
G=1976                      TSEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
USPUBLIC ONLY                                                  OLARBOOV
VSINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X:INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE  STAGES OF FOUCATILINAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOuIS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSSNATONLCPASNSOUDEAPRC,E'.4
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; TH~E
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZ   DEFINITIONS A ND WITHIN LIMITS,, 10 CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPEcTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE  THEm
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE QCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING DU ALIFICATIONS S HOULD BE AU RNE IN
MIND:
(1)'EDUCkTION" AS DEFINED 1N THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(2)'PRIMAPY EDUCATIO)N REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY- EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECGNDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESI [IF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) I
(3)'LITERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPR1JXIMATIUNS AND II 1S
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFOIRM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE- HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY,
(4)"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION"(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCAJIUN BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES)
(5)'ENROLLMENT RATICO3"(COLS 7, 22 AND 14) REFER TO) SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPIN6
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER 9F STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



-  15  -                                                    ANNEX  11-3
PARAGUAY
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION
Student Flows
Cohorts 1969-1974 and 1980-1985
80-         Grade 1                                                                                                   80
1969
70  -                                                                                                              - 70
Grade 2
60                                                                                                                    60
60 _  ff    . ---.  1970   1981                                                                                6
1982
50ade 1eolnfre 19 co oddf5osenerlcieGrade 4                                                                           50
0
o                                                                         1983
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Bn-640
Li                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grade 5           4
1984        Grade 6
1985
30                                                                                                            ,       30
20                                                                                                                    20
10                                                                                                                   1 0
100%   100%       76%    87%        53%    78%        36%    70%       24%    52%        17%    489%
Retentiorn Rates
Grade 1 enrollment for year 1980 compounded of 85% of seven year old children (95% of the seven year age group)
and 15% of overage.
WVorld Bank-16340



PARAGUAY
EDUCATION PYRAMID
ENROLLMENTS IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INSTITUTIONS
1974
__    __       Gross(In Thousands)
Age       Grade                 ~~~~~~Total   Gross
Age    Population   Grade   Enrollment Enrollment    % of
Age Group
19-23      249.9                               13.3          5%                                                                  Higher Education-/
23      45.6         5          0.9                                                                                     0.9
22      48.3         4          1.0                                                                                    1.0
21      50.4         3          2.0                                                  URBAN                            2.0                                            RURAL
20      52.2         2         4.0                                                                                  4.0
19      54.0         1         5.4                                                                                 5.4
13-18      361.3                                                                                                                 Secondary Education
18      55.9         6         6.6                                                                               6.6
17      57.7         5         7.7                                                                              77
16     59.4         4         10.1                                                                           10.1
15      61.1         3        11.9                                                                         11 b
14      62.7         2        15.4                                                                      154
13  64.3             1    199                                                                      19.9
7-12    429.5                                454.9        105%                                                                  Primary Education  /
12      66.2         6        36.5                                                             2          3 .7                            12.8
11  68.2             5    47.9                                                              27 9                                      20.0
10   70.4            4        63.3                                                      31.                          8           3         1       .       5
9      72.7         3        82.2                                                  35.                                                                                    46 9
8      74.9         2       100.3                                                3641
7  77.1    1  124.7                                                          40.4                                                                                                                               84.3
50       40         30       20         10        0        10         20       30        40         50        60        70        80        90
11 Estinnated                                                                                                             THOUSANDS
2 / Net age group participation rate 82%
SOURCE:   Education Planning Directorate                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fq
Ministry of Education                                                                                                                                                                       VWorld Bank-16319



PARAGUAY
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND WORSHIP
YEAR 1975
NATIONAL COUNCI L
FOR EDUCATIONA L
PLANNING
..........................................................     MINISTER                                                    ............R
UNESCO        T..NIO.NAL COUNlCILI
FOR SPORTS & ATHLETICS
NATIONAL. COMMISSIO
UNICEF                                  GENRA G                                                                      PROJECT UNIT                       I ....  I FOR CO.ORDINATiON
SECRETARIAT                                                                  IRG                                        TH UNESCO
GAS.  ..                                                                                                                              .      ATIONAL COUNC
O.A.S.       .....                                                                                                                                     .....  FOR SOCIAL PROGRAMS
.... INATIONAL COUNCIL
US AT O~~~~~  PUDLIC RELATIONS  ~~~~LGALDIRECTORATE OF                                                                             PSO SECONDARYL
& INFORMATIONO    |       DEPARTMENT OF                                       LAL                    NATIONAL LIBRARIES           P        N           I
~~LOAEFAR,,<r   RIORON A                             CONSULTRNCV ~~~~~~~~ARCHiVES & MUJSEUMS
DIECT.. .E....                                                                    COUNCIL FOR
OEDCTON                                                                      PRIMARY EDUCATIONJ
AUDIT
DEPARTUIEFNT
DEPARTMENT DE  DEPART M ENT OF                                                 D~~~~~~~~~~~EPAR1MENT OP
DEPARTMENT OF      DEPARTET FDEATMN  O                                  EPARTMENT OF              VEpTETO                     OCATIONAL &              DEPARTMN  OPDEPARTMENT OF
AOMINISTRATIVE                                                                                                                            MNSCHOOL  I CATIONAL  EDUCATIONAL  CURRICULU
PERSONNEL                                                                                  REGONAL CENTERS            EDUCHOL  DUC  IONL  IATINAL  EUAINLRIU
SERV,CES           B~~~~UILDING              MATERIALS                                             GUDNEPLANN ING                                      DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OFDEPARTM ENT OF               EFPAARTMENARTMFT OFMEAFS                                                        DEPARTMENUCTIO OF- 1NO
SECONDARY            EDUCATION   ULTURAL        DEERTENEO DPATMNTOFADLTEDCAON
PRIMARY EDUCATION           EDUCATION            RELEASE                    TECHN CAL EDUCATION        TEACHER TRAINING          &ALITERACYDTELE-EDUCATION
I-N L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RBR,-BR
VV.dd B-k-16397~~~~~~~~~~S



- 18 -                             AIMEX II-6
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Fublic Expenditures on Education
(Guaranies -4illion)
Executed                Budget
-1969     197          1975       1976        1980
1. Ministry of Education /                                                        (1976 prices)
1.1 Recurrent                   1,177.1   1,803.0      2,269.0    2,757.3      3,716
1.2 Capital                         51.7     407.2        417.7      671.9       930
2.  Other Mlinistries
2.1 Recurrent                       58.1     138.6       173.t.      213.5
Interior                                 7.2         7.9         9.
Agriculture                   10.8      19.4        31.0        41.8
Justice & Labor               --        48,1        5,56        68.5
Defense                      41.0       63.9        79.0        93.6
2.2 Capital                         82e3                              19.0 80.2  33.
Agriculture                    --       28.3        61.9        19.0
Defense                      82.3       10.5        18.3        14.5
3. Decentralized Agencies
3.1 Recurrentg/                     16.7      33.2          L         53-5
UTat. Telecoms. Admin.        12.1       26-.9       37.1        39.1
NIat. Electricity Admin.        4.6       6.3         8.4        14.4
3.2 Capital
TTat. Univ. of Asunci6n        -.3       13.0        24.4        39.1
4. TOTAL Public Expenditures
1+2+3                      1.391.2   2L433.8      3,010.3    3,771.8      5,269
4.l Recurrent                   1,251.9   1,974.8      2,488.0    3,024.3      4,199
4.2 Capital                        139.3     4X9.0       522.3       747E5     1,070
¢. 1.1 as % of central government
recurrent expenditures             18.5      15.8        15.9        16.7      16.3
6.  1.2 as % of central government
capital expenditures                2.2      14.7          9.6        9.6      10.6
7.  4.1 as ', of public recurrent
expenditures                       14.5      13.0         14.2       Ic.6      114.8
8.  4.2 as 9N of public capital
expenditures                        3.3       7.7          5.4        5 0
9.  h as I of GTDP                       2.0       1.6         1.6         1.8       1.9
/ Religious Affairs excluded.
/ Expenditures of Universidad Nacional de Asunci6n included under 1inistry of Education.
Source: ?,inistry of Education, Ministry of Finance, W4orld Bank and Mission estimates.



PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Trends in Teachers' Salaries 1972 to 1976
(1972 - 100)
Prinary Education                Secondary Education             % Annual           Wage    Consumer Prices
1st gQt.      4th Cat.   Teacher/Hr. FuU time Teacher Average  increase  Minimum Laborers               Annual
Year      1;L/          2             3              4            Index   1 to 4      Wage  Index   Index   Increase
1972     100.0         100.0        100.0           100.0         100.0              100.0   100.0    100.0
(6200)        (2900)       (95)          (13500)                           (6216)
1973     100.0         100.0        100.0           100.0         100.0     0        125.5  109.0   114.2         14.2
1974     104.8         106.9       105.3            105.2         105-5    5-5       150.6   128.9    143.0       25.8
1975     u6.1          120.7       1158            115.6        J17o0   10.9        15o.6   135.1   152.6         6,72
7 to 82 
1976    129*0          134.5       126.3            127.4         129.3   10.5
NOTE: Figures in parenthesbs represent value of monthly salary; in colwim 3, hourly rate.
j/ Qualified teacher with post secondary education diploma.
2/ Preliminary estimate.
Sources: M¶inistry of Education, Paraguay; Report presented to CEPOEMS, Ministry of Finance, December 1975;
WTorld Bank Report No. 892-PA.



PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Tmpl mantatlon of New Teachers' Salary Scale (Escalafon)
PRI1ARY EDUCATION                                            ALL EDUCATION LEVELS
Expenditures on:               Total as
Budgeted     Estimated        Covered by Escalafon   Implenentation  Rural Education  % of Recurrent
Year         posts     No. of Teachers!' Entrants Accumulated       of Escalafon    AUlowances         Budget
%   1         2
1975        J,991        11,600            5f3       53    0.5        1,284            --               0.1
1976        16,474        11,900           176       229(2) 2          8,304(.3       20,000(3)          1.0
1977        16,968        12,300           4OO      629      5
0
1/ Preliminary estimates.
N}OTES:
(1) For other levels, 206 of about 2,524 posts were covered by 1976
(2) 700 posts with special allowances of 2,000 i/mo. (300) and 3,5*00/mo.(h00).
Source: Ministry of Education budget and Department of Personnel (M4OE).
co4



PARAGUAY
Third Education Pro.ect
Ministry of Education Recurrent Ependitures by level of Education
(Guaranies OOC2)
1969 Executed                 Bu              1969          6
196              19:75                1976         7       _ 
1  Primary Education                675s996.0       1*268s879,4         1,499,660.0        57.3       54.4
2. Secondary Education                84,945.1         281,633.5!          351,675.0         7.0       12.7
3e Teacler Education & Trainingai)                      39,015.6            51235.6                   1.9
7 8,*719.0o-
4. Professional Education             7                 30,219.6            36,210.7         713
5. Universities (transfers)          218,222.0         420,665.3           515;206.1      19.0       18.7
6. "Integrated Education"             48,420.2          81,467.3           109,111.0         4.0        3.9
7. Adult Education                     6,262.7          35,201.4            50,259.0         o.5        1.8
8. Central Adnmnistration?/           39s940.5          60,830.7            83,896.8         3.6        3.1
9. Planning & Other Tech. Services    14,644.7          24s531.6            29,874.0         1.0        1.1
10. Textbooks & Teaching Materials        --             13,946.4            16,714.8          --        o.6
11. Culture and Sports                  6,989.2          12,113,2            13,432.4         o.6        o5
Total Education                1,177,080.5       2,268,604.1         29757,275.4       100.0      100.0
Total Education and Religious       n.a,         2,292,246.0         2,782.626.8
Affairs
2/ ISE budget 1975s  14,333.5 (68% increase over 1974) and 1976:  20,947.1
?/ Includes 2,941.2 (1969) and 7,1426.8 (1975, 1976) anual contributians to
international organlsations.



- 22 -                       AISEX 11-IO
PARAGUAY
Third Education Pro.iect
Reciwrent Expenditures by Category of Expenditure
(Gua(raranes mI1.lion)5-
Ministry of Education         Primary Education
Item            1970               1974        1970           1974
Salaries         1,079.7            13531.5      802.8        1,092.0
Materials &
Supplies          10.3               11.2
Maintenance          1.4                 1.3
Other                6.2                7.0
Subtotal     1,097.6            1,551.0       14.1           32.4
Transfers          258.8              353.1        --             --
Total        1,356.4            1,904.1      816.9        1,124.4
Soiree: Ministry of Education: Segundo Proyecto de Educaci6n, Tomo 1.



- 23 -                        ANNEX II-l1
PARA,GUAY
Third Education Project
Unit Recurrent Costs in Public Primary Education
Recurrent           Cost per Student: 2/1       2/
Budged!       Current    Constant 1972 prices-
Year      Enrollments      V O00          Prices      alternate i' alternate2
1969       362,268          703,595        1,942       2,204
1970       373,245          816,858        2,188       2,506
1972       386,728          948,995        2,453       2,453       2.453
1974       393,729        1,124,397        2,855       2,215       2,706
Projections 1975 prices (3)
1975       418,370        1,365,9794/      3,265
1980       507,875_/      1,948,720-       3,837
1/  Includes 57% of "Educacion Integrada"
2/  Deflators used: in alternative 1, general government deflator;
in alternative 2, increases in teachers' salaries rates
3/ Ministry of Education Planning Department projections
L/ 1975 prices



PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Estimate of Community Contribution to Public Education - 1975
(Guaranies)
Contribution          Contribution as
Number           Unit Cost              1 x 3               % of Ministry of
'000         Per Month 'nnual        9f Million             Education Budget
Asooiaci6n Cooperadora y Caja        389.01          10        100             38.9
Eeoolar  (primary education)
3%recurrent budget
Teacher Posts (primary schools)        1.3        4,000     40,000             52.0
School Buildings                   2,210.1          -           58            128.2             31% capital budget
Sub Total                                                              219.1             8% total budget
School Fee Secondary Education        50.0o1                   408             20.4            i
Exam Fee Primary and Secondary       439.0L2t                  150             65.9             196 recurrent budget
Education
TOTAL                                                                  305.4             11%
NOTES:
1. Contributions to the school "Cooperadora" and "Caja Escolar" are used mostly for school supplies and maintenance.
2. It is estimated that 10% of the 12,780 teacher posts in public schools in 1975 were financed by the community
at rates ranging from 3,000 to 5,000 V/mo.
3. The "unit cost" figures reflect the situation in three provinces:  Itapda, Concepci6n, San Pedro (0 28,860,000
contribution for a 500,400 population, or 57.7% per person).
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _P r%3
21 Enrollments.
V Total population excluding Asunci6n.



- 25 -
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
3.01      The proposed education project would assist the government in the
further implementation of the education policies and programs set out in its
1969-80 Education Development Plan. In particular, it would support the
government's efforts to improve and extend educational opportunities to
children and adults in rural areas, thereby complementing its investment
efforts in rural develoment and helping expand access to lower secondary
education in semirural towns. Emphasis would be given to improving the
quality and efficiency of the education system by increasing the production
of textbooks and teaching materials and upgrading teachers and supervisors.
Specifically, the project would:
(a) expand and improve education opportunities in rural areas by:
(i)  establishing 83 rural community learning centers,
offering primary education to about 30,000 school
age children and nonformal basic education and
training to about 20,000 out-of-school youths and
adults; and
(ii) supporting local communities in their efforts in
school construction by supplying essential building
materials and technical assistance for completing
construction of 77 associated primary schools for
15,400 students which were initiated by community
financial effort;
(b) expand and improve secondary education in semirural towns by:
(i)  providing functional buildings and equipment for
workshops and laboratories for five lower secondary
schools (grades 7-9) for 2,400 students; and
(ii) expanding two existing multilateral secondary
schools with workshops and laboratories to serve
1,800 students and supplying complementary equip-
ment for workshops and laboratories for three
schools being constructed under the first Bank
Group education project (Credit 347-PA);
(c) improve the qualifications of the teaching and supervisory staff
by providing in-service training for about 2,700 teachers, school
directors and supervisors of project institutions;



- 26 -
(d)  support the textbooks and teaching materials production
program by financing the printing of 10 textbook titles
and related teaching guides for grades 5 and 6 for the
rural schools (about 300,000 books);
(e)  assist the government programs for improving efficiency in
education administration by providing technical assistance,
equipment and material to various Ministry of Education
Departments;
(f)  help the Ministry of Education complete an education facilities
survey and a school map by supplying technical assistance and
funds for its execution;
(g)  assist the government in carrying out a study on bilingual
education; and
(h)  provide other project related technical assistance up to the
total of eight man/years of specialist services and 27 man/years
of fellowships for training abroad.
Elements of the Project
3.02      Rural Community Learning Centers (RCLC's).  This project item
would assist in establishing 83 rural community learning centers within an
institutional framework of educational areas (areas educativas) or nuclei
school administration and spacing system. It would comprise the construction,
furnishing and equipping of 366 classrooms, 166 workshops, 83 multipurpose
rooms, 83 administrative and school library spaces and 83 staff houses.
3.03      Each rural community for which an RCLC is planned has an average
population of 6,000 and is disadvantaged in terms of both income level and
provision of education and training facilities. Criteria have been estab-
lished for selecting these communities and for determining the number of
new and replacement schools to be provided and the number of teachers to
be trained and upgraded. The criteria include (a) a higher ratio between
rural population and grade 4 primary enrollments, (b) the existence of,
or plans for, rural development programs, (c) a higher proportion of small
scale farmers who own their land, (d) a higher proportion of subsistence
and annual crop cultivation as against large scale farming of cash crops,
and (e) the results of a preliminary school survey made by teaching staff
and supervisors. Five departments of the 19 in the country were selected
for this project: Itapue, San Pedro, Concepcion, Amambay and Canandiyu.
The number and size of project RCLC's in each department are given in Annex
III-1.
3.04      Programs in the RCLC's would include:  (a) formal primary edu-
cation, (b) accelerated primary education; (c) functional literacy courses,
(d) nonformal training, and (e) seminars for teachers of surrounding rural
schools.



- 27 -
3.05      Formal primary education, grades 1-6, would be offered to children
in the RCLC community. Children from small communities (within five kilo-
meters) where only the first four grades were offered might complete their
primary education (grades 5-6) at the RCLC. Total enrollment in each RCLC, in
two shifts, would vary from 240 to 480 according to the catchment area popu-
lation, therefore the number of classrooms for each RCLC would also vary from
three to six (Annex III-1).
3.06      The curricula  for formal primary education to be implemented were
revised in 1973 by the Curriculum Development Office of the Ministry of
Education, assisted by international specialists provided by UNESCO and
USAID. They comprise three areas of study: Social Life and Communication;
Nature, Health and Work; and Mathematics. They have been designed to avoid
the teaching of too many disparate subjects and have been adapted to local
social, economic and geographic conditions. The major improvement in primary
education, however, would derive from the student's role in the learning
process: he would learn by working on a small farm or in a workshop, labor-
atory or school library. The RCLC's would provide adequately equipped facil-
ities for these activities. Since teachers responsible for implementation of
the new curricula would need to be trained and upgraded in the new teaching
techniques, the project would provide financing and technical assistance to
establish in-service teacher training courses. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the government would in all project schools implement the
revised curricula and appoint only qualified teachers who had benefited from
these upgrading courses.
3.07      No shortage of qualified teachers willing to work in rural schools
is expected in view of measures already taken by the government. Rural
teachers usually work two shifts and receive double salary. Teachers as-
signed to frontier schools or isolated rural areas receive an incentive
allowance. In addition, teachers who attend upgrading courses, are assigned
to multigrade teaching or participate in community development receive credits
toward salary increases. These benefits are set forth in the current Escalafon
law.
3.08      Directors of RCLC's would be the technical and administrative super-
visors of their own centers and of the eight to ten associated rural schools.
In the past, departmental supervisors who lived in the capital of the Depart-
ment were responsible for about 125 schools; because of the lack of per diem
and transportation, they could supervise only a few schools in a year. The
proposed decentralization of supervision would enable RCLC directors to visit
each school in their districts about twice a month. The project would provide
about 40 motorcycles for traveling to associated schools for supervision. A
manual establishing the responsibilities of national, departmental and regional
supervisors would be completed by June 1977. RCLC directors would be specially
trained for their duties as regional supervisors. The government gave assur-
ances during negotiations that by March 1, 1979 it would establish the new,
decentralized school supervision system and that all RCLC directors would have
attended such training courses.



- 28 -
3.09      Textbooks for grades 1-4 are being distributed to rural schools.
Textbooks for grade 5 would be ready for printing by November 1976 and for
grade six by December 1977. The project would finance the printing material
for the production of these textbooks for grades five and six (para. 3.20).
Additional teaching materials would be provided by the project for the first
year of school operation and after that by the government and the local
community. In-service teacher training programs in the use of textbooks and
other teaching aids would be included as part of the project (para. 3.19).
3.10     -Under the abovementioned improved education conditions, some 30,000
rural children would have opportunities for receiving a complete, satisfactory
formal primary education in project institutions. Retention rates in the
RCLC's are expected to be about 81% from grade 1 to grade 4. An estimated
dropout of 15% from grade 4 education to grade 5 would result in a retention
rate for all rural primary education in project regions of about 65% by 1981,
which is higher but realistic compared with the government's projected reten-
tion rate of 48% for all the rural schools in the country. A student evalua-
tion system recently established would substantially reduce dropout rates.
The traditional, rigid examination system is being replaced by a continuous
evaluation and school attendance monitoring system which allows promotion of
capable and serious students to a higher education level. Teachers are being
trained intensively in new evaluation techniques at pre-service teacher train-
ing institutions and at in-service teacher training courses, which would be
strengthened by the proposed project.
3.11      Accelerated primary education would be offered at the RCLC's to
rural out-of-school youths and, to some extent, to the 13 year old or over
students attending regular six grade schools (about 16% of total primary
rural school enrollments). The curricula for this education program differ
from the curricula for regular formal primary education designed for children
7-12 years old. While curricula content is similar to that of regular school-
ing, it takes into consideration experience, mental maturity, interest and
working commitments of young people, and the need to be implemented in two/
three year courses instead of the formal six year program. Teachers in charge
of carrying out this accelerated primary education program, one for each RCLC,
would require additional training, for which the project would provide support
(para. 3.19). The project RCLC's would provide facilities for accelerated
primary education with 40 student places in each so that about 80 youths in
two/three shifts might be enrolled. Thus about 6,000 rural youths would
benefit every year and after about five or six years the enrollment of overage
students in regular primary rural schools would be substantially reduced or
eliminated.
3.12      Nonformal education and training courses for rural adults, male
and female, also would be offered by the project RCLC's. About 14,000
adults would attend such courses annually. Ten of the RCLC's located in
the more densely populated rural communities, where development and



- 29 -
colonization programs are being implemented, have been selected to receive
complementary equipment for every-day training activities (one or two sewing
machines, one stove and kitchen supplies, some agricultural and general
mechanics tools). Under an agreement already reached between the Ministries
of Education and Labor, the Servicio Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP),
which is being strengthened through a second Bank Group project (Loan 1252
T-PA) in education and training in Paraguay, would provide mobile workshops,
sets of equipment and instructors for training in several rural oriented
specialties. Also, the Ministries of Agriculture and Health would use the
RCLC facilities as a base for their training activities. Coordination of
such programs would be the responsibility of the Department of Adult Education
in the Ministry of Education at the national level and of the director of
the RCLC at the community level. In addition to nonformal training, each
RCLC would offer literacy courses. A teacher who had received training in
adult education would be appointed on a full time basis in each of the 10
selected RCLC's; in the associated primary schools a trained teacher would
devote to adult education one shift of the two for which he was paid.
Teachers' activities would be supported by the provision of adequate teaching
aids such as books. The Department of Adult Education within the Ministry
of Education has already completed the preparation of three sets of books
and with financial assistance under this project about 150,000 books would be
printed and distributed (para. 3.20). During negotiations assurances were
obtained from the government that only qualified teachers who had received
training in adult nonformal education would be appointed in the ten selected
RCLC's where extensive adult education programs are to be offered.
3.13      All teachers, about 24, in associated schools surrounding each
RCLC would be invited to monthly seminars called by the directors of the
RCLC's to discuss rural development, teacher methodology, and use of teaching
aids and to receive information on administrative regulations established by
the Ministry of Education. Discussion would focus on finding solutions to
school and community problems. The seminars would complement the directors'
field supervision responsibilities.
3.14      Associated Rural Primary Schools.  This project item would provide
equipment, furniture and essential building materials for the completion of
77 associated rural primary schools initiated by the community but not yet
completed due to limited resources. The associated schools would be of the
same standards, in terms of architectural design and materials, as other
project institutions. The location and status of construction are shown in
Annex III-2. About 230 classrooms, with a capacity of 40 student places each,
would be available to enroll some 18,000 children in two shifts. The 77 rural
primary schools to be completed form part of the approximately 500 existing
schools in the five project departments which would operate as associated
schools to the project RCLC's. They would offer a minimum of four grades and
would be near RCLC's where students might attend grades 5 and 6 of primary
education. These associated schools would be supervised by the directors of
the RCLC's. Although each school would be provided with essential teaching
materials, some RCLC equipment, books, and teaching aids would be made avail-
able by the directors of the RCLC's as needed.



- 30 -
3.15      Lower Secondary Schools.  This project item would comprise the
construction, furnishing and equipping of five lower secondary schools in
semirural towns (Annex III-3), each with a capacity of 240 student places.,
to replace and expand existing unsuitable accommodations. It would support
the government's policy of extending secondary education opportunities to
semirural areas for improving the productivity of lower income groups.
The project schools, working in two shifts, would enroll about 2,400 students
when in full operation by 1981. The curricula would include prevocational
subjects (industrial, agricultural, and home economics) to better prepare
students for further specialization or work. Students completing the courses
in the project lower secondary schools might further their education in the
multilateral secondary schools being constructed under the IDA financed first
educaton project, in the regional education centers established with AID
assistance, or in the multilateral secondary schools which would be extended
and equipped under this project.
3.16      Teacher requirements for the lower secondary schools would be
met from among the graduates of the Higher Institute of Education, an out-
standing teacher training institution supported by UNESCO and USAID. In
addition the project would provide financial and technical assistance for
teacher upgrading courses, mainly in industrial arts, science and mathematics,
at the Higher Institute of Education (paras. 3.19 and 3.24).
3.17      Multilateral Secondary Schools.  This project item would provide the
construction, furnishing and equipping of workshops and laboratories for two
existing multilateral secondary schools (grades 7-12) at Luque, Departamento
Central, and Pilar, Departamento de Neembucu. At present these schools have
suitable classrooms to accommodate about 400 students each in academic-theory
courses. With the provision of industrial arts and home economics workshops
and science laboratories the project would assist the government in expanding
the capacity of each school to 600 and in improving the quality of education
by implementing the new curricula, which include prevocational subjects.
3.18      In addition the project would finance the procurement of additional
equipment for workshops and laboratories for a multilateral secondary school,
a secondary technical school and a vocational training center being constructed
in Asuncion under the first IDA project. This supplementary equipment would
permit the implementation of the curricula for technical streams recently
designed by the government with the assistance of international specialists in
technical education. Equipment would be mainly for mechanical, electrical and
refrigeration workshops, and some specialized laboratories, as advised by the
international specialists already in the country.
3.19      Upgrading Courses for School Supervisors, Directors and Teachers.
This project item would include funds to assist the Institute of Higher Educa-
tion and Regional Education Centers in carrying out a comprehensive upgrading
program for about 2,700 teachers, school directors and supervisors of project
institutions. About 20 departmental supervisors of primary schools and about



- 31 -
100 directors of rural community learning centers would receive a two month
course on new school supervision techniques, on the use of teaching aids,
including textbooks and equipment, on rural development programs being imple-
mented or planned, and on a system of collecting education statistics. About
1,620 rural primary teachers would attend a course of two months' duration
aimed at better understanding the objectives and content of the innovative
primary education curricula, which have been implemented in only a few schools
since they were officially approved in 1973. Teachers would be trained also in
the appropriate use of textbooks and teaching materials and in the role of
teachers as community leaders. Courses of varying duration would be estab-
lished for upgrading industrial arts teachers and for teachers of application
primary schools where trainees of teacher training institutes do supervised
practice teaching. Secondary school supervisors, directors and teachers,
about 250, would have an opportunity to attend upgrading courses in their
fields. Emphasis would be on planning and carrying out practical work in
science laboratories and workshops. A satisfactory implementation schedule
for the teacher upgrading courses has been prepared by the government (Annex
III-4).
3.20      Production of Textbooks and Teaching Material.  This project item
would provide 110 tons of paper, ink and other printing material for the
production of about 300,000 textbooks for grades 5 and 6 of primary rural
education, 20,000 teachers' guides, and 5,000 textbooks and teachers' guides
for adult basic education. Textbooks to be produced (Annex III-5) would cover
the main subject areas (Communications/Spanish, Mathematics, Social Sciences,
Natural Science, and Health) in the curricula for rural schools. A team of
30 teachers, editors and draftsmen, trained under a USAID program, is writing
the texts. Manuscripts for grade 5, as well as for adult basic education,
are almost completed; those for grade 6 are expected to be ready by December
1977. They would be printed by local, private firms, of which at least three
are well equipped and capable of doing satisfactory work. The Ministry of
Education has already printed about 500,000 textbooks for the first four grades
of rural primary schools, and some 100,000 of these were distributed free in
1974-75. Present government policy is: (a) to charge parents the cost of
materials plus an estimated three year price increase contingency in order to
create a revolving fund for reprints and (b) to continue financing salaries
and other expenses of textbook production. Distribution would be through the
Internal Revenue Office, which has agencies all over the country, and the
rural community learning centers in small villages. It is expected that this
would make textbooks available to all rural children and would provide a
system for collection of the sales price. The Department of Textbook Produc-
tion within the Ministry of Education would be responsible for carrying out
this project item. The Department is well staffed, but the director would
need technical assistance to establish a sound financial plan and auditing
system for short and long term operations. The project would provide six
man/months of consultant services for this purpose (para. 3.24).
3.21      Improvement of Central Education Administration.  This project
item would provide technical asistance in the form of three and one-half
man/years of specialist services and seven man/years of fellowships for



- 32 -
improving central education administration efficiency. In addition, the
project would supply essential equipment, furniture and materials for some
departments within the Ministry of Education. The Education Planning Depart-
ment would receive the assistance of two and one-half man/years of specialist
services in education financing, statistics, and student evaluation systems.
Selected staff members would be sent abroad for a period of six months for
training in student evaluation systems. About US$20,000 would be provided
for equipment and materials for this Department.  The Technical Education
Department would receive office equipment and furniture costing about
US$10,000 and technical assistance already provided under the IDA first
education project.  The Personnel Department, which has initiated updating
of teachers' records to implement the Escalafon law and establish position
classifications, would be assisted by two man/years of specialists in manage-
ment planning and position classification. Three staff members would be
sent abroad for training. In addition the project would provide equipment
(typewriters, calculators, duplicators, card indexes), furniture (desks,
files, chairs) and materials. The Departments of Primary and Secondary
Education, Teacher Training, Curriculum Development, and Student Guidance
would also receive technical assistance in the form of fellowships (four
and one-half years) for sending about seven staff members abroad, as well
as equipment and materials for improving operations.
3.22      School Mapping.  This project item would provide consultant services
(18 man/months) which would include a physical and land use planner, an
economist and a geographer for about six months each. In addition the project
would finance transportation and per diem of field personnel and would pro-
vide office equipment and materials for the preparation and printing of final
school map documents. A Central Coordinating Committee composed of the
Director General of Education as chairman and the Directors of Education
Planning, Primary, Secondary and Technical Education and School Construction
would be established. Its main functions would be to (a) determine the range
and phasing of the task; (b) update national regional and local targets for
the various levels of the education system; and (c) liaise with other Ministries
(Agriculture, Public Works, Health and Labor) concerned with the provision of
facilities throughout the country. Regional supervisors, directors of Rural
Community Learning Centers, school directors and teachers would be directed
to contribute to achieving the objectives of the school mapping project. The
draft terms of reference would be reviewed by the Central Coordinating Committee.
During negotiations the government gave assurances that it would: establish a
Central Coordinating Committee composed of the Director General of Education
and the Directors of Education Planning, Primary, Secondary and Technical
Education and School Construction within three months after effectiveness of
the Loan/Credit Agreement and prepare draft terms of reference and the sched-
ule for completing the school map acceptable to the Bank, within three months
of the establishment of the Central Coordinating Committee.
3.23      Bilingual Study.  This project item would finance a comprehensive
study of the impact on education of the present linguistic situation of the



- 33 -
Paraguayan population. The estimated cost of US$50,000 would cover short
term contracts for linguistics specialists, sociologists and educators and
costs for field work, data processing, and printing of the final report.
Qualified specialists are available locally. The principal objective of
this project item is to help the government formulate a workable linguistic
policy to use in rural education and training programs, taking into consider-
ation that both Guarani and Spanish are official languages. About 90% of
the total population speak Guarani, and for half of this group it is their
sole language. Although in rural areas about 74% of the population speak
only Guarani, with 23% bilingual and 3% speaking only Spanish, teaching
in the primary schools is entirely in Spanish. This is considered a main
factor in the high repetition and dropout rates. It is expected that the
proposed study would result in a better understanding of language related
education problems. The Directorate General of Education, through its edu-
cation research unit, would be responsible for coordinating and supervising
the execution of this program. The terms of reference for this study should
be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.24      Technical Assistance (Annex III-6).  The project would provide
eight man/years of specialist services and 27 man/years of fellowships for
training abroad of local staff:
(a) specialist services in:
(i) education financing and statistics (six man/months each)
to assist the education planning staff in establishing
short and long term educational targets;
(ii)  student evaluation systems (six man/months) to assist
in developing and implementing a new evaluation and
promotion system for primary school students;
(iii)  management planning and position classification (one man/
year each) to assist the Personnel Department within the
Ministry of Education in improving personnel administration
and implementing the teacher Escalafon law;
(iv)  financing and auditing textbook production programs
(six man/months) to assist the pertinent departments
in establishing financial policy and sound budgetary
and accounting procedures;
(v) industrial arts teacher training (two man/years) to
assist the Institute of Higher Education in developing
such a program;
(vi)  school mapping (three consultants, six man/months each),
including specialist services in physical and land use
planning, economics, and geographic matters to assist
the Central Coordinating Committee in designing and
preparing a school map;



- 34 -
(vii) architectural design and construction supervision (six
man/months) to assist the project unit architectural
group in project school design and supervision; and
(b) fellowships for:
(i) about 12 central administration staff (seven man/years)
in courses of six to 12 months' duration; and
(ii) 40 technical teachers (20 man/years) in courses of
six months' duration in a Latin American technical
teacher training institute.
3.25      The cost of technical assistance has been estimated at US$45,000 per
man/year of specialist services and US$10,000 per man/year of fellowships.
If the government is successful in obtaining technical assistance from the
UNDP or any other agency which might provide it on a grant basis, the funds
for the items affected should be canceled or reallocated for other project
related purposes acceptable to the Batik. Assurances were obtained from the
government that it would select specialists and fellowships acceptable to the
Bank Group and appoint them on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
Group; provide suitable counterparts for the specialists; and make appropriate
arrangements for the placement of fellowship recipients.



- 35 -                              ANNEX III-1
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Rural Community Learning Centers (RCLC)
by Department. District and Number of Classrooms
RCLC by Number of Classrooms
DEPARTMENT           DISTRICT            RCLC                                           Classrooms
3       4         5          6
AMAMBAY                                13        6         _          1        6         59
Pedro J. Caballero         9         4        _         1         4          41
Capitan Bado               3         2        -          -        1          12
Bella Vista                1         -        -          -        1           6
CANENDIYU                               6        -         -         _         6         36
Salto del Guaird           4         -        -          -        4          24
Curuguaty                  2         -        -         -         2          12
CCNCEPCION                             13        4         2          1        6         61
Concepci6n                 14        -        1          1        2          21
Horqueta                    5        2        -          -         3         24
Belen                      3         2        _-                  1          12
Loreto                     1         -        1          -        -           4
ITAPUA                                  28      15         4          6        3        109
Gral. Bogado                2        2                                        6
San Pedro del P.            4        2                  1         1          17
San Cosme y Damian         1         1                                        3
Obligado                   2         1                            1           9
Trinidad                   1         1                                        3
Hohenau                     1                            1                    5
Gral. Artigas              1                             1                    5
Cap. Miranda               1                  1                               4
Vicente Matiauda            1                            1                    5
Cap. Meza                   8        5        1          2                   29
CambyretA                   1                 1                               4
Bella Vista                 2        2                                        6
Jesds                       2        1                            1           9
Fram                        1                 l                               4
SAbI PEDRO                              22       7         5          5        5         96
Gral. Aquino               3                  1                   2          16    1
Lima                       1         1                                        3
San Pedro                  6         2        1          ,                   25
Villa del Rosario          2                            1         1          11
San Estanislao             3         1        1                   1          13
Felipe Matiauda            2         1                            1           9
Itac. del Rosario          2         1                  1                     8
Nueva Germania             1                  1                               4
Tacuatl                    1                  1                               1
25 de Diciembre            1         1                                        3.
PTE. HAYES                              1         -        -         1         _          5
Pozo Colorado              1                             1                    5
TOTAL                               83        32      ll        -11        26       366



ANNEX 1II-2
- 36 -
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Status of Construction of Associated Rural Primary Schools
________  Schools _____
Classrooms            l_.-__   Statue
Departments   per school    Total            A                      B   Classrooms
Total           1 -6         77          31        27        19          233
Itapua        1 -6         30          5        15        10            84
1              3          1         2          -3
2              7          3         2          2            14
3             15          1        10          4            45
4              4          -         1          3            16
6              1          --1                                6
San Pedro    1 -6          31         20         4          7           95
1              2          1         -          1             2
2              8          5         -          3            16
3             13         10         1          2            39
4-             5          2         2          1            20
6              3          2         1          _            18
Concepcion   1 -6          16           6         8         2           54
1              1          1         --1
2              3          1         2          -6
3              7          4         2          1            21
4              2          -2                   -8
6              3          -         2         ,1            18
Status of Construction: A-foundation level;B-roofing level;C-finishing level



ANNEX III-3
- 37 -
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Secondary Schools
Student    Enrollment
Department   District          Type of School   Places    1975    1980    Remarks
Concepci'on   Bel'in           Lower Secondary    240        74     480     New
Concepcion   Loreto                                240      124     480
Guaira       Independencia    "                    240       60     480
Caaguazu     Dr. J. M. Frutos "                    240       76     480
Itap-ua      Capitan Miranda  "                    240      69      480
Central      Luque             Multilateral        300      385     600     Extension
Neembucu     Pilar                                 300      212     600     i
Asuncion     Asuncion          Multilateral      1,000   1,200   2,000      Equip. only
"I          "t                 Technical           420     240      840
Vocational          240     200      240



P A R A G U A Y
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Upgrading Courses for School Supervisors, Directors and Teachers
Implementation Schedule sod Estiuated Costs
1977-1980
1977                         1978                          1979                         1980
a                           o                              oo0
o                 0      0                             5       o
301                                                    4                             .4
d .            a              .4            g               s ..                         *      > 
.0             0 V                  5       0               U             0                     a a                    I               
Courses                                                     -O   Fw  -    F.                               a           -    a            P       ,    0e  C0         O      o U
I.PrimrY Education                                                                                                                                                                   41.120.0      ja7.QQ
(a)  Supervisors                             20        -     -              -        -     -              -       20   ISE   Asuncion            -     -               -     8        400.0        3.30
(b)  Rural School Directors                  o00       -                     -      50   ISE   Asuncion           50   ISE   Asuncion            -     -               -     8      2,000.0       15.90
(c)  Rural Teachers                       1,960     400                           520                            520                           520
160   ISE   Asuncion         200   ISE   Asuncion          200   ISE   Asuncion          200   ISE   Asuncion           8     12,160.0       96.60
80   CRE   Encarnacion        90   CRE   Encasnacion        80   CRE   Encarnacion        80   CRE   Encaruesion       8      5,120.0       40.70
80   CRE   Concepcion         80   CRE   toncepcion         80   CRE   Concepcion         80   CRE   Concpc6o         8      5,120.0       40.70
80   CRE   Villarreal         80   CRE   Villarreal        80   CRE   Villarreal         80   CRE  Villarreal          8      5,120.0       40.70
80   CRE   P.Stroessner      80   CRE   P.Stroeosner        80   CRE   P.Strossener      8      4,800.0       38.20
(d)  Industrial Arts Teachers                80        -     -              -       40  ISE   Asuncion           40   ISE   Asuncion             -     -               -    40      6,400.0       50.80
II. Adult Education                                                                                                                                                                                     6.20
Teachers                                      40       -     -               -      40   ISE   Asuncion            -     -               -       -     -               -     8         800.0       6.20
III.  Secondarv Education                                                                                                                                                                  2.870.0       23.00
(a)  Supervisors                             30        -     _               -      30   ISE   Asuncion            -     -              -        .     -               -     2         210.0       1.80
(b)  School Directors                        100       -     -              -        -     -!              -      50   ISE   Asuncion           50  ISE   Amuncton           1         280.0       2.30
(c)  Science & Mathemtics Teachers           100      25  ISE   Asuncion            25   TSE   Asuncion           25   ISE   Asuncion           25   ISE   Aauncion          8       2,000.0      15.90
(d)  Industrial Arts Teachers                 20       -     -               -       -     _               -       -     -               _      28   ISE   Aauocion          8         380.0       3.00
IV. Teacher Tradning Progrsma                                                                                                                                                             1,S50.0       14.70
(a)  Teaching Practice                        25       -     -               _      25   ISE   Asuncion            -     -               _       _     _               _     4         250.0        2.00
(b)  Primary Application School Teachers    200       50  ISE   Asuncion            50  ISE   Asuncion            50   CSE   Encarnacion        50   CRE   Concepcion        4       1,600.0      12.70
ADMINISTRATION AND TRAINERS' SALARIES                                                                                                                                                5,200.0       41.30
TEACHING MATERIALS                                    _                            _                             _                              _                                   1 11,160.0     87.80
GRAND TOTAL                                2,675     475                          780                            755                           665                                  63,000,0      500.00
ISE - Instituto Superior de Educacion
CRE - Centro Regional de Educacion



- 39 -                                     ANNEX III-5
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Textbook Production
Title         Grade   Number        Paper   Cardboard   Ink               Cost
Kg.       kg.       kg.    0 million   US$ '000
Communications       V     30,000       12,500       560       110       6.3
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         5       0.3
Health               V      30,000       4,500       560        50       2.2
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         2       0.1
Mathematics          V      30,000       11,600       560      110       5.8
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         5       0.3
Social Sciences      V     30,000         8,900      560        90       4.5
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         5       0.3
Natural Science      V      30,000        8,100       560       90       4.1
Teachers' Guide              2,OOQ          560       40         5       0.3
Communications       VI    30,000        13,400      560       110       6.7
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         5       0.3
Health               VI    30,000         5,400      560        50       2.7
Teachers' Guide              2,000          240       40         2       0.1
Mathematics          VI    30,000        12,500      560       110       6.3
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         5       0.3
Social Sciences      VI    30,000        10,300      560        90       5.1
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         5       0.3
Natural Science      VI    30,000         9,400      560        90       4.7
Teachers' Guide              2,000          560       40         5       0.3
Basic Education    Adult   4,000          1,000       80        10       0.6
Teachers' Guide              1,000          220       20         2       0.1
GRAND TOTAL               325,000      103,100    6,100        956     51.7       410



- 40                                  ANEX III-6
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule
Specialists                                 Man/Months
Field                   Number     Total      1977      197b       1979       19b0
Education Financing                  1          6          -         6          -
Education Statistics                 1          6          -         -          6
Student Evaluation Systems           1          6          -         6          -
Management Planning                  1         12          6         6          -
Position Classification              1         12          -         6          6
Financing, Auditing Textbook Prod.  1           6          6         -          -
Architectural Design                 2          6         3          3          -         -
Industrial Arts Teacher Training    1          24         6         12          6         -
School Mapping                                 18          -         9          9         -
TOTAL                          12        96         21         48        27
Fellowships                                 Man/months
Field                   Nlumber    Total      1977       1976      1979       1960
Evaluation Systems                   1          6          -         -          6         -
Management                           2         12          -         6          6         -
Position Classification              1          6          -         6          -         -
Financing, Auditing Textbook         1          6          -         6          -          -
Production
Curriculum Development               1         12          -         -         12         -
Primary School Administration        2         12          -         6          6         -
Secondary School Administration      2         12          -         6          6         -
Student Tracer System                1          6         -          -          -         6
Teacher Training School Adcin.       1         12         -          -          -        12
Technical Subjects Teaching         40        240        60(10)   120(20)    60(10)       -
TOTAL                          52       324         60        150        96         18



- 41 -
IV.   COST OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$17.38 million.
The breakdown by type of program and category of expenditure, shown in detail
in Annex IV-1, is summarized below:
By Type of Program
Guarani (million)         US$ (million)
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Rural Community Learning Centers   722    262    984   5.73   2.08    7.81
Associated Rural Primary Schools    45         26      71   0.35   0.21    0.56
Lower Secondary Schools               105      60    165   0.83   0.48    1.31
Multilateral Secondary Schools         50      92    142   0.40   0.73    1.13
Teacher Training                       43      20      63   0.34   0.16    0.50
Textbook Production                     5      47      52   0.04   0.37    0.41
Central Administration                  1       9      10   0.01   0.07    0.08
School Mapping                         14       6      20   0.11   0.05    0.16
Bilingual Study                         5       1       6   0.04   0.01    0.05
Technical Assistance & Fellowships   7         72      79   0.06   0.57    0.63
Project Administration                 30      13      43   0.24   0.10    0.34
Base Cost                      1,027    608  1,635   8.15   4.83   12.98
Physical Contingencies (9.5%)         102      55    157   0.81   0.43    1.24
Sub Total                     1,129    663  1,792   8.96   5.26   14.22
Price Contingencies (22.2%)           267    131    398   2.12   1.04    3.16
Total Project Cost            1,396    794  2,190  11.08   6.30   17.38



- 42 -
By Category of Expenditure
Guarani (million)        US$ (million)
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Civil Works                      834    287   1,121   6.62   2.27   8.89
Furniture                         72      10      82   0.57   0.08   0.65
Equipment & Materials             24    218      242   0.19   1.73   1.92
Teacher Training /a               42      10      52   0.33   0.08   0.41
School Mapping &
Bilingual Study /a              18       4      22   0.14   0.04   0.18
Technical Assistance
& Fellowships                    7      71      78   0.06   0.57   0.63
Project Administration /a         30       8      38   0.24   0.06   0.30
Base Cost                 1,027    608   1,635   8.15   4.83  12.98
Physical Contingencies (9.5%)  102        55     157   0.81   0.43   1.24
Sub Total                1,129    663   1,792   8.96   5.26  14.22
Price Contingencies (22.2%)    267    131        398   2.12   1.04   3.16
Total Project Cost        1,396    794   2,190  11.08   6.30  17.38
/a Excluding equipment & materials.
4.02      Base costs are expressed in prices projected as of October 1976.
The cost of building construction is derived from recent contracts obtained
from private enterprises, actual costs of first education project schools
which are under construction, and some USAID-financed primary schools.
Further, cost estimates were adjusted to reflect maximum use of local building
materials and economic norms and standards in the design and construction of
the project institutions. Average construction costs are estimated at US$116
per square meter of gross floor area on the basis of one story buildings and
the maximum use of local materials and labor available at each school loca-
tion. The cost of completing the 77 associated rural primary schools has been
estimated at about 26% of total construction cost. The project would finance
the cost of construction materials while the community would provide free
labor.  Site development cost is estimated at about 12% to 15% of construction
costs depending on the type of school and size of sites required. Site
development for rural community learning centers is likely to be a community
contribution. In such case the saving in this category might be used to
expand related school facilitites such as recreation/sports areas. The
costs of equipment and furniture are based on actual costs in the first
education project and on recent contracts. Capital costs per student in
rural community learning centers are about US$480, while in lower secondary



- 43 -
schools they are about US$1,040. These costs are slightly lower than in
previous school construction contracts due to a new school design using local
materials and labor. All the project institutions would be used on a double
shift basis. The cost of project items is computed net of taxes except for
civil works, for which taxes are estimated at about 15% (US$1.33 million).
4.03      The cost of professional services to be provided by consultants
other than the permanent architectural-engineering staff at the project unit
would be marginal; it represents about 1.2% of total construction costs. The
existing project staff, which is qualified and which has gained experience
during implementation of the first IDA education project, would be responsible
for the majority of project school design and supervision work. Consultants
would be contracted for such specific tasks as site survey and electrical and
water supply system designs.
4.04      Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost estimates
for (a) physical contingencies equal to 10% of base cost estimates except for
technical assistance, where no physical contingencies are foreseen, and (b)
expected price increases of 9.6% in 1977 and 12% per year during 1978-81,
reflecting the increasing demand on the construction industry of the hydro-
power and other development projects.
4.05      The foreign exchange component of US$6.3 million (36%) was cal-
culated on the basis of (a) experience gained from the first education proj-
ect, (b) information collected for the second education/training project
and (c) discussions in the field with government officials and private firms
knowledgeable about the structure of local construction costs and the pro-
curement sources of goods and services required by the project. The break-
down of the estimated foreign exchange component is: civil works 25%,
equipment and printing materials 90%, furniture 12%, technical assistance
90%, teacher training and project administration 20%.
Financial Plan
4.06      Capital Costs.  The total project cost of US$17.38 million would
be financed by a Bank loan of US$8.0 million, an IDA credit of US$4.0
million and a government budgetary contribution of US$5.38 million, as
follows:



- 44 -
Financing
Fiscal                        Expenditures         Bank Group          Government
Year         Semester         (US$'000)             (US$'000)          (US$'000)
1977            1                   -                     -                  _
2                 290                  240                  50
1978            1               2,420                1,550                 870
2               2,220                1,640                 580
1979            1               3,440                2,350               1,090
2               2,360                1,690                 670
1980            1               3,830                2,540               1,290
2               2,620                1,910                 710
1981            1                 120                   80                  40
2                  80                    -                  80
17,380               12,000               5,380
During negotiations the government gave assurances that it would make suffi-
cient and timely budgetary allocations to meet the annual requirement for
counterpart funds to implement the project.
4.07      Recurrent Costs.  The project would generate about US$0.5 million
(1976 prices) additional recurrent costs per year starting in 1981, when
project institutions are expected to be in operation. These costs are
relatively low due to the fact that a large proportion of the schools to be
built under the project substitute for existing staffed schools. Costs
related to (a) the appointment of qualified industrial arts teachers to
implement the curricula recently introduced under the education reform,
(b) school maintenance and (c) the provision of teaching materials have
been taken into account. These additional costs would not impose an undue
burden on the financial capacity of the government since they represent
about 1.5% of the projected recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Education for 1981, estimated on the basis of a 7% to 8% annual increase
in the education budget if the expected economic growth rates are achieved.



P A RA G U A Y
THIRD EDUCATIltl PROJECT
Swmry Oe 0 tetad Coat.
(Uo U8$ '030)
.-^Cd.C.                                                                     ftipnot   Oeho, *e.  Taohdo1l             PpjoJ..t kd.
CIA.SoO   W-,kcho      Soot       taf&                            taf     sit.        Prof....  Cooot,,otloo                          ad        koAmlog      Aa.it*o          holodla
(ct4. 40) h  Lb.. 20)  7100    HEO.eo   (300.2   Coaoanl  Ho1g  Dwop-.tt S.r -at-1l.a.   Iloip? &                                                              7A.  &:lolo'4*%.L   at    Mal
Cinity  iMn8g GCteru
(School with 3 ola.MVINaino&)          96         64         3,810     32    15,832       1,788.9     269.0    247.6         27.8                 2,333.3    123.6        107.2                                                   2,564.3
CGWAi%7 L40.550  0601
C        ith 14 1  r Ctor   )          44         22        1,760      11     6,115         694.4      92.1      914.5       10.3                   891.3      49.2        36.5                                                     Mt.0
O-ol  with 5   .out d.)                 70        28         2,800     14      8,938      1,027.0     l17.5    137.2         15.9                 1,297.6      71.14        46.8                                                  1,415.8
81nrt1t 0.sinlm 0.otare
(Schols ith 6   olawaoo meob)         156         52        6,240      26    18,258       2,094.5     219.0    277.0         30.9                 2.621.4    150.0         86.7                                                   2.8tl41
&3bt.otal 0.inity
Lammi3g Centsr                      366       166         14,640    83    49,173       5,604.8      697.6    756.3        84.9                  7,143.6    394.4        277.2                                                  7,815.2
-mli ft8m.7 School.                                                                /1
(Col1otiea)                           233         -         9,320      --    12,582          --          --      -                     371.0        371.0    1147.6        46.8                                                    565.4
Loa_  Seondkr7 School.                 20         20        1,200       5     5,985         775.4      47.6    146.4        134.3       -           985.7      71.4       250.0                                                  1,p7.1
sc  e. (e xoasotoa)                   -          71        2,860      --                   321.4       -        64.3          . 9                  393.6      32.5       700.0                                                   1,126.1
lcbm,oyk for 1m.1                                                                                                                                                         410.0                                                     410.0
T_ahbr Mainig                                                                                                                                                              88.0      1412.0                                        5oo.o
scool aping                                                                                                                                                                28.0       132.0                                        160.0
mliog,a  Idtflc  stow                                                                                                                                                       3.2        46.8                                         50.0
Imp ocot of O_al                                                                                                                                                3.0        79.0                                                     82.0
Amniarticn
TSholmil Amowt         ad
FElcIwahils                                                                                                                                                                                         630.0                          63D.0
Proj..t Adamistrtion                                                                                                                                                       37.7                                     302.3          340.0
0   XmZo 0CWTD0dC3                                                                6,701.6     745.2    969.o       107.1       371.0     8,893.9    648.9      1,919.9       590.8          630.0          302.3        12,65.8
Fbyw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ~~~~~670.2                                                   714.5    96.9       10.8        37.1        889.5     614.9       1912.0      59.1           --             30.3         1,235.8
98,yIOFAl oeatioea.2*.                                                               1,872:.4    208.2    270.7        27.9       86.2      2,465.4    152.5        377.0        614.1         57.3           145-5         3,'.8
ftbt.ta3                                                                                ,54.        282.7    367.6        308       123.3      3.549      271           6.'2.                      737. a3l.
T0LAL OSM IIICLIUD0 CQI2TDIQCII                                                         9,244.2   1,027.9  1,336.6       145.8      494.3    12,248.8    866.3       2,438.9       714.0         687.3           378.1        17,363.4
For0ig0   k.o                                                                              2,300.0     255.7    332.6       27.5       206.7      3,122.5    103.6      2,231.4      152.0          615.6            75.7        6,3DD.A
b-er Tatga  00es                                                                              25%        250      25%        19¢         425          25S      125          90%        215            90S             20%            36%
/1  40 a.2(ot) * 14        .U.t(oir _l*tloo) . 54 .    (: 54 x 233 - 12,582)



PARAGUAY
Third Education Proiect
ContingencY Alowances
(in US$ '000)
0th. Programs  Technical        Project Adm.
Construction                       Site             Equipment                         Professional    xcluding      Assistance       Ezxolufng
Materials      Civil Worka         Development      & Materials       Furniture       Services        Equip & Mat.  & FeUowships kqap & Iat.            Total
For.   Loc.   FoLoc     ..                  L For. coFr.    Loc.   For.   LeL         For.    oc.  For. Loc.                                         For.      Loo.       Total
Project Cost
Without Contingencies    155.8  215.2  1,661,6  5,585.2   242.3    726.7   1,727.9  192.0    77.9  571.0    21.5    85.6  118..  472.7  567.0   63.0    60.5  21a.8  4,832.6   8,153.2   12,9^5.8
Physical Contingencies
Percentage          (10)   (10)    (10)      (10)      (10)     (10)    (10)      (10)     (10)  (10)      (10)    (10)   (10)   (10)    ---- --- -        (10)  (10)   (8.8)       (9.9)     (9.5)
Amount               15.6   21.5      186.2   558.5    24.2       72.7     172.8   19.2     7.8   57.1      2.2     8.6    11.8   47.3                     6.1   24.2      426.7     809.1    1,235.8
Cost Including Physical
Contingencies            171.4  236.7   2,047.8  6,143.7   266.5    799.4   1,900.7  211.2    85.7  628.1    23.7    94.2   129.9  520.o  567.0   63.0    66.6  266.o  5,259.3   8,962.3   14,221.6
Price Contingencies
Percentage          (20.6) (21.5)  (24.8)   (25.6)    (24.8)   (25.6)  (17.4)   (21.9)  (17.4) (21.9)   (16.1) (25.2)  (17.0) (8.1)   (8.2)  (17.2)  (13.6) (13.7)  (19.7)           (23.7)   (22.2)
Aount                35.3   50.9      507.9  1,572.7    66.1    204.6      330.7  46.3    14.9  137.6        3.8   24.1    22.1   42.0   46.5   10.8        9.1   36.4  1,036.4   2,125.4    3,161.8
Coat Including All
Contingencies            206.7  287.6  2,555.7  7,716.4   332.6  1,004.0   2,231.4  257.5  100.6  765.7          27.5  118.3   152.0  562.0  613.5   73.8    75.7  302.4  6,295.7  11,087.7   17,383.4-



- 47 -
V.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Administration
5.01      The project would be administered by the project unit responsible
for implementing the first IDA-financed education project. The performance
of the project unit has been satisfactory, but it would require strengthening
by the appointment of additional technical staff. The government has agreed
to strengthen the project unit architectural group and has appointed an
additional civil engineer acceptable to the Bank. To help retain qualified
technical staff in the project unit, the salaries of key project unit staff
and equipment and materials, estimated altogether at US$340,000, have been
included in the total project cost. Primary responsibility for completing
the construction of associated primary schools would rest on the Department
of Construction of Schools in the Ministry of Education under the overall
supervision of the project unit.
Project Implementation Schedule
5.02      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the proposed
project, a comprehensive implementation schedule has been prepared (Annex
V-1). This schedule was discussed during negotiations and agreed upon
with the government as a project implementation and monitoring tool.
Professional and Technical Services
5.03      The project unit architectural group would be responsible for
designing project institutions (rural community learning centers and lower
secondary schools). Short term consultants to assist the project unit in
carrying out this task have been included under the technical assistance
component of the project. In addition, consultant firms would be contracted
for specialized design components (electrical and water supply systems).
The government would maintain the technical committees which assist the
project unit procurement officers in reviewing equipment and furniture lists
and specifications to certify that they meet economic and functional stan-
dards, costs, and educational objectives of the project.
Sites
5.04      No major problems are expected with regard to the acquisition of
sites for project schools. About 80% of the required sites are already
government property. The remaining 20% are expected to be donated by the
communities or easily acquired by the government since project schools will
be located in rural areas, where land is available. Nevertheless, assurances
were obtained from the government during negotiations that all sites would
be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank Group and
acquired as needed for the construction and operation of the project facil-
ities.



- 48 -
Procurement
5.05      Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group. Since the civil works are of small size
(averaging US$90,000) and are at scattered locations, foreign contractors are
not expected to participate in the bidding, although they would not be pre-
cluded from doing so. Qualified local construction firms, both medium and
small sized, established in regions where project schools are planned would
have an opportunity to bid since civil works would be contracted by school or
group of schools, which would eliminate the large financial guarantees that
only a few large firms are able to provide. The completion of the construc-
tion of the associated primary schools would be carried out using a force
account procedure and under the direct control and supervision of the Depart-
ment of Construction of Schools in the Ministry of Education; the bulk of
building materials would be procured in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group, and advertised locally.
5.06      Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines, except that furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped in
packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured through local procedures
acceptable to the Bank. It is estimated that procurement under these pro-
cedures would not in the aggregate exceed 15% of the total cost of furniture
and equipment, or about US$400,000. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment should be allowed a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to
the prevailing tariff or 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, whichever is
lower. An estimate of the dollar amounts to be used by each category of
procurement is given on page 41, para. 4.01.
Maintenance
5.07      For the proper and effective maintenance and operation of the
project facilities, the project unit should prepare a maintenance handbook
and establish adequate procedures. During negotiations, assurances should
be obtained from the government that it would allocate funds for adequate
maintenance and repair of buildings, equipment and furniture provided under
the project.
Disbursements
5.08      The proposed US$12.0 million loan and credit, equivalent to 69% of
total project costs of US$17.38 million, would finance the full foreign
exchange component (US$6.3 million) and about 51% (US$5.7 million) of local
currency costs. Retroactive financing not exceeding US$100,000 would be
provided for payments made from June 1, 1976, in respect of professional
services, site development, technical assistance and project administration.
To ensure that funds would be available in a timely manner for the imple-
mentation of priority project items such as the rural community learning



- 49 -
centers and for developing as soon as possible a longer term policy for
improving the quality of education, the loan would cover the local costs of
teacher training courses, school mapping, the bilingual study and professional
services. It would also finance, through professional services, a portion
of project administration costs, which would include supplementary salaries
for the eight key project unit staff not exceeding US$27,000 for the five
years' project implementation period (Annex V-2), and the procurement of
office equipment and a vehicle for field supervision. Disbursements on pay-
ments made for completion of the 77 associated schools would be made against
an unsupported statement of expenditures since these civil works would
be by force account. Documentation for these expenditures would be retained
by the government, subject to review by periodic Bank Group staff supervision
missions.
5.09      The proposed loan/credit would be disbursed over a five year
period (Annex V-3) and would finance (a) 60% of the cost of civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of the cost of locally procured equip-
ment and furniture; the cost of materials for completing construction of asso-
ciated rural primary schools; and (c) 100% of expenditures on technical assis-
tance, fellowships, upgrading teacher training courses, school mapping, the
bilingual study and professional services, including supplementary salaries
of project unit staff. Disbursements from the loan would take place after
the credit had been fully disbursed or committed. Any remaining surplus funds
would be used for priority items closely related to the original project, sub-
ject to the Bank Group's approval, or would be cancelled.



PARAGUAY
Third Udutttine PLo jut
lmlne1eoIeatioln & ExoeoditureO Schedule
(in US$ eillior)
Calender Year          7 |    1976                      1977                       :9'_                        1979                        1980                          1981
C1 ...rY.r                                                   97
9uertnra                  4      2     I .    2 |   i              U      2      3 4           U      2     3      4             2      3             1      2      3          I
AcquisitiOn and Survey                                                                                                                                     17.3
74.56
.Arthitectural Briefs and   - E ---i-   -   -
C ... tmeti.. Drainags                                     _|un l Clatve   ts Tol Cost
Reeecs                                                        .     PHS   1                                          ii_.   P_S   2....... __.__ ...rX_ _ __ _____
Co2strention Tender                                                                                                ne t _  I                               -                             r
Cont rat t     o Awi-,-ard
Caste    Works  or  t           l                    _ p    o                                                       l                      l                   3   c            e
Eq.i Tant -d F.r.il.r. ~ ~   ~          ~         ~         ~        ~         -    etnaano  oe   utiatrl  chO
T.no                                                    r         r Contr_ctr A-.rd-  t   loe  se                                                                                      schm|
\  Equipment and Feeoiture                                                                                                                                                             ti e        achoo.
at      1 A                                   - | -      ------ -----ti2 71 :t-a--sch-o--of-th  fIrstprojec
Proj-ct Admini.trati                         o.o2  lll_l    
a nd Other Pr.gr-m                                 7 7         _         =                            
1    Total Expeditures     | 0010 0 01  0  3  0.14  1.21| i.; 1  1.1() I.')l  1.72   1.13   1.1e  Ig I    1.0 b   1.311  1.32  0.0  0.03        8        
|    Acmmulate  Expenditurs   |     01| D 02  015  0 29  I1DO| 2 71  3.81 | 4.921 6.64   8.37   9.55  10    3       14.56 15871  .1917. 2417.3i 17.38,                | !
S   .  .              .                   _                   .         _i   _.   .          .    .. _ iI pMS
Re_ferences                                                 1    HPASE I                                           1     RS 
._w--   Lirbilit  Periods   -   14co=unity *tiring centers                   -26 cRccn'ity I.-Mning centers                  -_       jommunity   earning centers
_    Activity Periods                    wih 5 clsrosec                                                 ih6cawom   ahwt                                                leasrning each  er
_ _ls     Conpie   nof7                  - =ltion of 77           ....ciated                           --t,  lwer secondary schools                      -   32 commnity          ..thn cntr
APsri.tyd R.'o             ual         pr~imar ofchools                                                                                           with 3   asrv    ec
ma-ySh..rr.    r.U-.1                                                                      --etensLon of one ..ltilacer.1 a,h..l                 tnj~r..odr    ..l
--  one lower ..cvMary school                                                                                  -    w   oe   evdr   co
-- complmmntary equip.e.t for three-                                                                                 xeso.foe .tltrlsho 
schoolsa of the first p-oj-t                                                                                                                                        S



ANNEX V-2
- 51 -
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Project Unit Staff
Supplementary Salaries
(US$)
Position                            Mouthly               Total 1977-81
Director                              100                     6,000
Architect                              50                     3,000
Engineer                               50                     3,000
Educator                               50                     3,000
Procurement Officer                    50                     3,000
Accountant                             50                     3,000
Bilingual Secretary                    50                     3,000
Secretary                              50                     3,000
450                   27,000



ANNEX V-3
- 52 -
PARAGUAY
Third Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Fiscal Year                     By Semester               Cumulative Total
1977
1
2                             240                          240
1978
1                           1,550                        1,790
2                           1,640                        3,430
1979
1                           2,350                        5,780
2                           1,690                        7,470
1980
1                           2,540                       10,010
2                           1,910                       11,920
1981
1                              80                       12,000
2



- 53 -
VI.   BENEFITS, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND EVALUATION
Project Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would help the Paraguayan Government implement
its education development plan designed mainly to correct the imbalance of
education and training opportunities between rural and urban areas. About
46,000 school age children at the primary level, 8,000 at the lower secondary
level and about 20,000 out-of-school youths and adults would benefit annually
from the provision of education and training opportunities in the project
institutions, through the training of about 2,000 rural primary teachers,
350 school directors and supervisors and providing every student in rural
primary schools with a textbook in each of the main study areas. Significant
improvements in quality and efficiency are expected. Thus the project would
help reduce the considerable wastage in annual operating expenditures which
is now due to the high dropout and consequent low completion rates. Through
the provision of key technical assistance, the project would also contribute
to the improvement of national education planning, education financing and
administration, and bilingual teaching.
Risks and Uncertainties
6.02      No major risks are foreseen.  The shortage of qualified teachers
willing to teach in rural areas that is common to several developing coun-
tries is not expected in Paraguay. The Escalafon law now in force estab-
lishes some attractive benefits for rural teachers such as double pay for
working two shifts and salary increases for teaching multigrade classes
and for teaching in remote villages. Revised curricula for primary educa-
tion are already being implemented in some rural schools and present no
problem. Additional recurrent expenditures for operating project schools will
be minimal since no substantial increase in the number of teachers will be
required because the majority of the project schools will be replacements
for present buildings in bad condition, whose teachers will be transferred to
the new buildings. Architectural designs for project schools are in process
and will be based on available local construction materials and labor. No
shortage of local counterpart funds is expected, since the Ministry of Finance
has decided to allocate in the 1977 budget the required funds for project
implementation. Some delay in project execution, and consequently higher
project costs, may occur if there is an increased demand for resources by the
major hydroelectric and infrastructure projects under execution in Paraguay.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.03      The project would be monitored by the project unit, which has the
personnel, experience and authority necessary to carry out this task. A com-
prehensive implementation schedule was designed and agreed upon with the
government to serve as a project implementation and monitoring tool. Project
evaluation would be made by the existing evaluation unit within the Education



- 54 -
Planning Department of the Ministry of Education. This unit would be
strengthened by project financed technical assistance and by training abroad
key local staff.



- 55 -
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the government gave assurances that it would:
(a) implement the revised curricula for primary education in all
project schools (para. 3.06);
(b) appoint in project schools only qualified teachers who have
-   benefited from upgrading courses (para. 3.06);
(c) by March 1, 1979, establish the new, decentralized school super-
vision system, and train all RCLC directors (para. 3.08);
(d) appoint only qualified teachers who have received training in
adult nonformal education in the 10 selected RCLC's where
extensive adult education programs are offered (para. 3.12);
(e) establish, within three months after effectiveness of the
Loan/Credit Agreement, a Central Coordinating Committee
composed of the Director General of Education and the
Directors of Education Planning, Primary, Secondary and
Technical Education and School Construction to be respon-
sible for the overall planning, coordination and supervision
of the school map project item; and prepare, within three
months of the establishment of the Central Coordinating
Committee, draft terms of reference and a schedule for com-
pleting the school map, both acceptable to the Bank Group
(para. 3.22);
(f) select specialists and fellowships under the project technical
assistance acceptable to the Bank and appoint them on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank; provide suitable counterparts
for the specialists; and make appropriate arrangement for the
placement of fellowship recipients (para. 3.25);
(g) make sufficient and timely budgetary allocations to meet the
annual requirement for counterpart funds to implement the project
(para. 4.06);
(h) use the comprehensive implementation schedule mutually agreeable
to the Borrower and the Bank Group as a project implementation
and monitoring tool (para. 5.02);
(i) select sites in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank
Group and acquire them as needed for the construction and
operation of the project facilities (para. 5.04); and
(j) allocate funds for adequate maintenance and repair of buildings,
equipment and furniture provided under the project (para. 5.07).
November 22, 1976



- 56 -
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector
Ministry of Education
A-1  Diagnostico del Sistema Educativo (1969)
A-2  Plan de Desarrollo Educacional 1969-1980 (1970)
A-3  Motivaciones de Docentes Ensenianza Primaria (1975)
A-4  Memoria - Educacion Primaria (1975)
A-5  Sistema de Formacion Docente (1973)
A-6  Innovaciones Educacionales (1973)
A-7  Estudio de Financiamiento de la Educacion (1966-1980)
A-8  Ley Escalafon Docente (1974)
A-9  Causas Malogro Escolar (1975)
A-10 Desarrollo Educativo en Cifras (1954-1974)
A-il Proyeccion de Escolarizacion y de las Necesidades de Maestros hasta 1985 (1975)
Other Paraguayan Agencies
A-12 Evaluacion Programa Integrado Desarrollo Rural (1975)
A-13 Perspectivas del Empleo 1950-1984 (1975)
A-14 Hacia una Universidad para el Desarrollo (1973)
A-15 Sector Memorandum - Draft (1975)
UNESCO
A-16 Evaluaci6n Proyecto "Formacion del Personal Docente" (1975)
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Ministry of Education
B-1 Desarrollo de la Educaci6n - Segundo Proyecto (1975)
B-2 Informe Sector Educacion (1975)
B-3 Project Preparation Report, two volumes (1975)
Other Paraguayan Agencies
B-4 Censo Nacional de Poblacion - 1972 (1975)
B-5  Cuentas Nacionales (1975)
C. Selected Working Papers and Tables
C-1  Guidelines for School Mapping (1976)
C-2  Enrollments Projection 1975-1985 (1976)
C-3  Building Cost Analysis (1976)
C-4  Bilinguismo:  Algunos Aspectos del Rendimiento Escolar
C-5  Criterios para Seleccion Liceos Nacionales
C-6  Criterios y Prioridades para Construccion de Escuelas



r  INAAfIC  
NEUVA SUNCIHAC 
5/N~~~~~~~~~~~~s  //
A LTO
8 0 Q U E  R    N Na
- -~~~~~~~~~~~                 L ~~~~~~~P RE C                 ENE          HYE
A 0GE NTNA
AN PDR                  ANEN DIyl
-  F-PARAGUAY                                                                              4    7<             FAAU   A'U    C~~~~5.  l//
F<FF,FFF              t ~~~TA3PiJA
S    IS   FO  S                       N- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           F~~~~~  AFc    Nt                            ;
FFF  F2                 MO                                                                                            <F  FFFF~~~~;~



