CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1346 PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 22, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF
PARAGUAY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to pro-
vide additional financial assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Development
Credit Agreement) the Association is agreeing to provide such as-
sistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to four million
dollars ($4,000,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Bank hns agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Section 2.01. (11) is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
"11. The term "Project" means the project or project
or program or programs for which the Loan is granted, as
described in the Development Credit Agreement and as the
description thereof shall be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and the
Association."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions


﻿-3-
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and
all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to tiwe by agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank, and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment; provided, however, that all references to the Association
and the Credit Account in such Schedule shall be deemed to be
references to the Bank and to the Loan Account, respectively.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.T0%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.01. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution ofT the Project
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV of the Development Credit
Agreement and Schedules 1 to 4 thereto are hereby incorporated
into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein; provided, however, that all references to
the Association and the Credit in such Articles shall be deemed
to be references to the Bank and the Loan, respectively.
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Credit shall remain
outstanding and unpaid, all action taken, including approvals
given, by the Association pursuant to the Articles and Schedules
of the Development Credit Agreement enumerated in the preceding
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or
given in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the
Bank; and all information furnished by the Borrower to the Asso-
ciation pursuant to such provisions, shall be deemed to be fur-
nished to both the Association and the Bank.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
wember. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, i2so facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of,. and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-8-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date May 3, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10                                     0
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Educaci6n y Culto of the Bor-
rover is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposeS of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Educaci6n y Culto
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Cable address:
MINEDUCACION
,,nci6n
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
VNTBAFRAD
Vshington, D.C.


﻿-11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Alberto Llanes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gunter K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
Beginning February 1, 1981
through   August   1, 1993                      295,000
On February 1, 1994                                  330,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-13-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the prLmiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.55%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                    3.05%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                    5.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                   7.70%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                          8.70%


