             103176




Republic of Armenia

   Municipal Water Project

      Redacted Report


                Official Use Only
                                                                           Official Use Only

                            Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the
WBG for purposes of its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG’s Framework
regarding Anti-corruption), in relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of
the Investigation was to allow the WBG to determine if the WBG’s Framework regarding
Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation
underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any
administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited
or otherwise referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or
in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on
the institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective
constituent documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the
right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an
investigation or a subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in
connection with this matter. The WBG’s privileges and immunities cannot be waived
without the prior express written authorization of the WBG.




                                             1
                                                                            Official Use Only




                                   Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations that Company A may have engaged in
misconduct in connection with the Municipal Water Project (the Project) in the Republic
of Armenia. The Armenian Water and Sewerage Company was the Project Implementing
Unit (PIU).

The PIU published bidding documents for a contract financed by the Project (the Contract).
Company A submitted its bid for the Contract, which included a Manufacturer’s
Authorization Form (the MAF) purportedly issued by Company B, authorizing Company
A to supply certain equipment.

Evidence indicates that following the bid submission, Company B informed the PIU that:
(i) it did not issue the MAF; (ii) it did not authorize Company A to offer its goods for the
Contract; and (iii) the signature on the MAF was not authentic, and the title of the signatory
on the MAF was incorrect. Subsequently, the PIU rejected Company A’s bid. In response
to INT’s inquiry on this matter, Company A acknowledged that the MAF had been forged
by one of its employees.

The World Bank Group imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on
Company A, which extends to any legal entity Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                              2
                                                                                     Official Use Only

Background

The Municipal Water Project (the Project) in Armenia aimed to support the improvement
of the quality and availability of water supply in selected areas serviced by the Armenian
Water and Sewerage Company, the Project Implementing Unit (PIU). The Project was
financed with an International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)1 loan.

The PIU published the bidding documents for a contract financed by the Project (the
Contract). Company A submitted its bid for the Contract. Its bid included a Manufacturer’s
Authorization Form (MAF) purportedly issued by Company B, authorizing Company A to
supply certain equipment.

Allegations

Following bid submission, the PIU attempted to verify the MAF, and Company B informed
the PIU that the MAF was false. Consequently, the PIU rejected Company A’s bid. The
World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) was informed of the PIU’s
correspondence with Company B.

Methodology

INT’s investigation consisted of, among other things, a review of: (i) Project documents;
(ii) information provided to the PIU by Company B; and (iii) Company A’s response to
INT’s Show Cause Letter.

Findings

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted a forged MAF with its bid for the
Contract.

The bidding documents for the Contract required bidders to submit a MAF to show that
they had been authorized by the concerned manufacturer to supply certain equipment. To
satisfy this requirement, Company A submitted a MAF purportedly issued by Company B.

Evidence indicates that, following bid submission, the PIU contacted Company B to
inquire about the validity of the MAF. According to the PIU, Company B informed the
PIU that: (i) it did not issue the MAF; (ii) it did not authorize Company A to offer its goods
for the Contract; and (iii) the signature on the MAF was not authentic, and the title of the
signatory on the MAF was incorrect.

After the PIU rejected Company A’s bid, INT issued a Show Cause Letter to Company A,
requesting Company A’s response to INT’s findings. In its response, Company A
acknowledged that the MAF had been forged by one of its employees.


1
  The IBRD is one of the five institutions comprising the World Bank Group. The International Development
Association (IDA) and the IBRD constitute the World Bank. The IBRD and the World Bank are used
interchangeably throughout this Report.

                                                   3
                                                                       Official Use Only

Follow Up Action by the World Bank

The World Bank Group imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on
Company A, which extends to any legal entity Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                          4
