                                                                                                              97779
Armenia: Improved Access to Water Services
                                                                                                       April 14, 2011




 Enhanced Public-Private Partnership in Delivery of Water Services in
 Armenia


Overview
Efficient delivery and public safety of water have been a primary concern in Armenia. Progress
has been made in delivery of water services in small and medium-size towns consisting of over
300 municipal and rural communities (37 towns and 268 rural communities) – around 33
percent of the country’s population (benefitting about one million inhabitants). The International
Development Association (IDA) has supported the government in providing safe and stable
water supply through several water and wastewater management projects.


Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
For many years most of the water supply and            Loading the player ...
sanitation systems in Armenia were in serious
state of disrepair. Despite an abundance of
water in the country, for almost all Armenians,
water was available for only a few hours a day.
Over the past decade, the government of
Armenia has strived to improve access, reliability
and quality of the drinking water and its
infrastructure. Although the water resource
balance in many parts of the country has
improved since the 1980s, and despite the
progress in improving water supply in areas
supported by private sector participation, the          MORE
institutional framework for sustainable water             Slideshow:  Improved Access to Water
supply delivery in most parts of Armenia                  Services
remained poor with low rate of revenue
collection (47.9 percent).

Approach                                                              More Results
The project introduced a successful public/private partnership
(PPP) for the management of water and wastewater services
in Armenia Water Supply Company (AWSC) service area,
covering about 33 percent of the population. It has delivered
substantial results. Private sector participation is increasingly
                                                                      266,000
                                                                      households have been provided
seen by the Armenian government as a key component of                 with improved access to water
sector reform strategies. Municipal Water and Wastewater              services between 2004 and 2011
Project (MWWP) replicated the successful PPP model tested
in the Capital city Yerevan’s water sector. The reform
continues under Additional Financing, scaling up the
rehabilitation and investments under the MWWP.                        98%
                                                                     bacteriological safety
                                                                     compliance of water increased
Results                                                              from 93% in 2004 to 98% in 2011

About 266,000 households (about a million inhabitants) have
benefitted from these improvements between November
2004 and January 2011:
                                                                    MORE INFORMATION
       The average daily hours of drinking water service has          Municipal Water and
       increased significantly, from an average of 6                  Wastewater Project (2004-2009)
       hours/day to 14 hours/day (end of project target
                                                                      Additional Financing to
       (December 2011): 16 hours/day).                                Municipal Water and
                                                                      Wastewater Project (2008-2011)
       Cities with minimal daily hours of water increased from
       68 percent at baseline to 90 percent now (end of               Armenia Water Sewerage
                                                                      Company
       project target: 90 percent).

       Revenue collection increased from 47.9 percent in
       2004 to 95 percent in January 2011. Billing on the
       basis of metered consumption increased from 40 percent at baseline to 77 percent (end
       of project target: 77 percent).

       Bacteriological safety compliance increased from 93 percent at baseline to 98 percent
       (end of project target: 98 percent).

       Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the project – 7,599.

       Piped household water connections that are benefitting from rehabilitation works –
       89,000.

       People provided with access to improved water services – 266,000 households (about
       1,064,000).

Bank Contribution
In 2004, IDA provided US$ 23 million under Municipal Water and Wastewater Project, for the
areas outside Yerevan for improvement of water supply in terms of coverage, quality and cost.
To scale up the ongoing program of water system rehabilitation and improvements under the
MWWP project, in 2008 IDA provided Additional Financing of US$ 20 million. The closing date
is December 2011.

Partners
There is a strong partnership among key development partners in Armenia’s water sector. IDA
coordinates with the Asian Development Bank on water sector reforms, particularly on
exchange of information on mutual efforts in the Armenia Water Supply Company (AWSC)
service area. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has invested in five
treatment plants in the Sevan region. Germany’s development bank (Kreditanstalt für
Wiederaufbau, KfW) is financing water supply investments in the cities of Armavir, Vanadzor
and Gyumri. The coordination efforts bode well for future improvements of the sector.

Moving Forward
Armenia appears to be on target to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of
water and sanitation by 2015. Significant investment is still needed, however, to reduce
excessive amounts of unaccounted for water, rehabilitate poor water and wastewater
infrastructure, and continue institutional and financial capacity building. The disparities are more
acute between urban and rural areas. The shortcomings in the system can only be remedied
through rehabilitation of water systems with well established prioritizations and the adoption of
regulatory and institutional changes.

Beneficiaries
The total number of beneficiaries with improved access to water services between November
2004 and January 2011 is 266,000 households, of which 34,748 live in rural areas.
Sophie, an 11-year old schoolgirl in a distant Armenian village, wrote an essay expressing a
desire to have drinking water in her village, which did not have water for more than four
months. She had to carry water from a neighboring village five to six kilometers away every
day. This touching story was awarded a prize by the prime minister of Armenia. Later in 2009,
with IDA and other donor assistance, AWSC implemented a project enabling the supply of
water into this village. “ It’s a real dream come true,” said Sophie. “The water utility brought life
back to our village.”
