Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9257
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2145-MA)
DECEMBER 2P , 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)
M$1.00               US$0.37
US$1.00       =     M$2.68
GLOSSAY
DSD    -  Development and Supply Division (of MOE)
ITI    -  Industrial Training Institute (of MOLM)
ITM    -  Mara Technical Institute
JKR    -  Public Works Department
MOE    -  Ministry of Education
MOLM   -  Ministry of Labor and Manpower
NEP    -  New Economic Policies
PCR    -  World Bank Project Completion Report
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
PSD    -  Public Services Department
SAR    -  World Bank Staff Appraisal Report
SoE    -  Statement of Expenditures
TAVED  -  Technical and Vocational Education
Division (of MOE)
TSD    -  Training Services Division (of MOLM)
VTE    -  Vocacional and Technical Education



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of D,fecttw-Cenetal
Opesatmns Evaluation
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Industrial Training Proiect (Loan 2145-MA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"tProject Completion Report on Malaysia: Industrial Training Project
(Loan 2145-MA)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCALu USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2145-MA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATION SUAY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Background  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
Policy Context  ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Sector Development Objectives ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
Linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Operations  . . .    2
Project Objectives and Description  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..   2
Project Objectives .. . .                                                     2
Project Components  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....    2
Technician Training ....  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
Skilled Worker Training ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    3
Monitoring and Review ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .    3
Project Design and Organization .... . . . . . .                                     3
Project Implementation .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Critical Variances in Project Implementation  . .            . . . . . . . . .    4
Technical Assistance  ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  5
Studies and Pilot Schemes ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  6
Project Risks ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . f..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
Government Actions Taken or not Taken which Affected Project
Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .................. .            7
Major Results of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .          .  .  .    .    7
Project Objectives .         .        .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Impact of Project . . . . .           . . . . . . . . . . . . .               8
Project Sustainability .. . . . . . . . . . . . ..                              .  9
Bank Performance  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  9
Major Strengths and Weaknesses  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Borrower Performance  .          . .                  . . . . . . . . . .   11
Major Strengths and Weaknesses  ... .  .  .  .  .  .    .. ... .  .  .   .   11
Project Relationship  . .                        . .        . . . . . . .   11
Impact of Relationship on Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . .  11
Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Project Documentation and Data  ....  .  .  .     . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .   .   12
Adequacy of Staff Appraisal Renort (SAR) and Major Papers ... .    .  12
Availability of Relevant Dat. co PCR Mission   .    .  .  .  .  ..  .   12
Part II. PRWOECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III  . . . . . . . .  13
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . .  13
Major Lessons Learned ....  .  .  .  .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned  . . . . . .  14
Major Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank and Borrower   . . . .  15
Part III. Statistical Information
Related Bank Loans  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .   .   16
Project Timetable ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .   .   17
Loan Disbursements  ....  .  .   .  .    . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   17
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Project Costs ........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :   19
Project Financing  .             ....20
Project Results.. .21
Direct Benefits of Project          . . .     .     .21
Studies.... . . .23
Status of Covenants        .... ..24
Use of Bank Resources    ..25
Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .25
Use of Bank Resources: Missions .25



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Planned and Actual Disbursements (Chart). . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Annex 2 - Planned and Actual Costs by Cost Category (Chart) . . . . . . . 27
Annex 3 - Estimated and Actual Foreign Exchange Costs (Chart) . . . . . . 28
Annex 4 - Government and IBRD Financing Share (Chart) . . . . . . . . . . 29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2145-MA)
PREFAC«
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Indcstrial
Training Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 2145-MA in the amount of US$40.6
million was signed on October 7, 1982. An amount of US$6.0 million was
subsequently cancelled on June 20, 1989. The closing date of the loan was
originally June 30, 1988 but was extended until June 30, 1989. Disbursements
against the loan continued until December 28, 1989. The total disbursements
were US$27.8 million. The remaining balance of about US$6.8 million was
cancelled on January 18, 1990. There wan a total of US$12.8 million cancelled
through the life of the loan.
2.          This report was jointly prepared by Bank staff (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). The PCR is
based, inter alia, on (i) the findings of Bank staff on two svnervision
missions to Malaysia; (ii) discussions with people knowledgeable about the
project; and (iii) dara from project files at Bank headquarters in Washington.
3.          This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was reviewed with the Borrower during the last Bank mission in
February 1990. Additional comments from the Government were not received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2145-MA)
EVALUATIONIHMAR&U
Introduction
(i)         This project arose from the Government's concern about Malaysia's
limited supply of skilled industrial manpower. To improve this situation, the
Government planned to upgrade the quality and productivity of the education
sector through the provision of increased student access, higher levels of
investment and improved quality of educational services. Within the
subsector, the Government also planned to improve its capacity to train
skilled and semi-skilled workers and technicians (Part I, para. 2 and 3).
(ii)        The project was identified in April 1980.  Appraisal followed in
August 1981 with the Board Presentation on May 18, 1982.  The US$40.6 million
loan to support the project became effective on January 3, 1983. The total
disbursement from the loan was US$27.8 million. The loan was closed on June
30, 1989, after an extension of one year (Part III, Tables 2 and 3).
Objectives and Content
(iii)       The project was designed to support the first phase of an
investment program to produce technicians and skilled worke:s. The investment
program would address major issues of industrial training; namely, the need to
expand the training capacity for technicians and skilled workers, enhance the
utilization of existing and future resources, improve the relevance of
training to both students and employers, and strengthen the national, regional
and local management of the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Ministry of
Labor and Manpower (MOIM) training systems for technicians and skilled workers
(Part I, para. 4).
(iv)        To achieve these objectives, the project would provide civil
works, equipment and technical assistance to: (a) establish two polytechnics;
(b) prepare for future establishment of three polytechnics; (c) establish
three industrial training institutes (ITV); (d) prepare for the future
establishment of two ITIs; (e) strengthen institutional curricula; (f)
increase facility utilization; (g) improve management at national and local
levels; and (h) train teaching and administrative staff. The project would
also: (i) promote training in industry; and (j) strengthen the ministry's
monitoring and review capacity for the project (Part I, para. 5). The project
implementation unit (PIU) for the polytechnics was located in the Development
and Supply Division (DSD) of the MOE. The PIU for the ITIs was located in the
Manpower Division of the MOLM.



- iv -
Implementation Experience
(v)         Although more acute in the MOLM. both ministries experienced
contracting and procurement difficulties which resulted in implementation
variances. In several cases, these problems forced serious schedule changes,
losses in disbursement and other implementation problems. Of particular
concern were the following: (a) the project had significant delays in
construction; (b) four civil works contracts (one polytechnic and three ITIs)
had to be cancelled for lack of contract compliance and subsequently
retendered; (c) there were significant delays in equipment procurement; and
(d) the Batu Pahat Polytechrnic had serious design flaws which were not
discovered until after construction was completed and students were enrolled
(Part I, para. 11 and 12).
(vi)        The project costs totaled US$57.1 million, an underrun of about
54% from the original appraisal estimates. Individual component costs showed
wide variances from original estimates. There were several reasons identified
for these variances. The economy was unstable at the time of appraisal.
Shortly after loan approval, the economy slipped into a recession which
allowed the Government to sign construction contracts for much lower prices
than originally estimated. The inflated estimates also drove price
contingencies up. Finally, the value of the Malaysian currency changed and
allowed a more favorable exchange rate (Part III. Tables 5A and 5B; Part I,
para. 41).
Results
(vii)       The major goals of the project were generally met or will be in
the near future (Part III, Table 6A). All of the institutions were completed
as planned. With the exception of the Batu Pahat Polytechnic, which will be
repaired by the Government, each institution is currently operational.
Instructional staff are being trained in appropriate numbers to offer
effective services, however, the implementation of the training has been more
problematic in MOLM-sponsored ITIs. In these institutions, the fellowship
goals were not met, but other local and donor sources are being utilized to
partially compensate for the loss. The unit costs for training for both the
polytechnics and the ITIs were moderate (Part I, para. 33).
Project Sustainability
(viii)      The Government has been consistent in its commitment to the
concept of the project. With the exception of the Batu Pahat Polytechnic,
which will be repaired in one or two years, the institutions are well
designed, built, staffed and equipped. Coupled with these factors, a recent
Public Service Department ruling requires that all public service technicians
must be graduates of polyte-hnic institutes.  MOE receives about 15,000
applications per year for the available openings in the polytechnics (about
3,000 per year) and find gainful :..ployment for about 95% within two years of
graduation (Part I, paras. 33 and 38).



-v -
Findings and Lessons
(ix)        The Bank should have provided more systematic review and support
of procurement activities dur,-g the initial and early stages of the project.
The PIUs should have been better staffed to adequately implement the project.
Government planning and management should be strengthened to reduce the
variance in the project implementation schedules. Technical assistance
contracts should have been legally strengthened and awarded as early as
possible to reduce input delays and errors that contributed to procurement
problems. Finally, record keeping and data analysis capacity should be
strengthened (Part I, para. 17).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 214 -MA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
- Project Name:   Industrial Training Project
- Loan Number:    2145-MA
- RVP Unit:       Asia Region, Country Department II
- Country:        Malaysia
- Sector.         Education
- Subsector:      Technical and Vocational
Proiect Background
1.    Policy Context.  Beginning in the early 1970s, the Malaysian Government
implemented a set of New Economic Policies (NEP) aimed at sharply reducing
poverty, decentralizing economic controls, and eliminating the connection
between ethnic groups and economic function. During the decade preceding the
project, Malaysia maintained a rapid growth in both GDP and employment,
averaging from 6% to 81 and 4% p.a., respectively. Growth was particularly
rapid in the secondary sector IJ/ with the contribution to GDP growing about
12% p.a., and employment growing about 7X p.a. This rapid growth led to a
severe shortage of skilled industrial manpower. During the decade of the
1980s, the population was expected to grow at about 2.41 p.a, and the labor
force was expected to grow at about 3.0% p.a. It was recognized that a
growing population and labor force would be an important enabling factor in
industrial growth only if the training systems could deliver the quantity and
quality of trained manpower demanded by industry.
2.    Sector Development Objectives. It was estimated that Malaysia would
require an annual average increment of about 6,000 technicians and 35,000
skilled workers during the decade of the 1980s, compared to the annual pie-
project output of 1,700 technicians and 10,000 skilled workers. Within this
context, the Government sought to improve the manpower situation by expanding
and improving the quality, relevance and access to industrial skill training.
Consistent with the strategy of regional dispersion of industrial activity,
the Government also planned to establish new training institutions in the less
developed states where large industrial investments were planned or had
already been made, as well as in states where industry is already active.
3.    As  important contributors in Malaysia's industrial development
strategy, the MOE and MOL4 sought to implement these strategies through an
i| Includes manufacturing, construction, utilities, transport, storage, and
communications.



-2-
investment program to upgrade the capacity and productivity of industrial
training and to improve the access of the poor to this type training. 2/
The Bank agreed to finance this first project under the provisions of Loan
2145-MA.
Project ObiJctives and Description
4.    Proiect Objectives.  To support the strategies discussed above, the
project was designed to: 3/
(a)   expand training capacity at the polytechnic and ITI levels through
the establishment of new institutions and preparing for future
establishment of more institutions;
(b)   enhance resource utilization through more flexible designs and the
grouping of similar, specialized courses in the respective
institutions:
(c)   improve relevance of training prograL., by assisting in the
development of courses in new subject areas to respond to employer
demand, and improve the quality of output by upgrading the
teaching staff required in the new institutions;
(d)   improve internal management of training institutions: (1) create
internal academic and examinations boards. and (2) reform internal
organizational structures and procedures; and
(e)   improve the management of the MOE and MOLM training systems.
5.    Project Components. In order to help achieve the above objectives, the
project provided civil works. furniture, equipment and technical assistance
to:
Technician Training
(a)   establish two polytechnics at Batu Pahat and Gombak;
(b)   prepare for future establishment of three polytechnics at Alor
Setar. Kota Bharu and Kuching;
(c)   strengthen the curricula, increase facility utilization, improve
polytechnic management, and train teaching and administrative
staff;
2/ World Bank, Malaysia's Manufacturing Sector: Development Issues and
Policy ORtions (Report No. 3187-MA, April 9, 1981).
3/ See Staff Appraisal Report, paras. 1.04, 1.05 and 1.09.



-3-
Skilled Worker Training
(d)   establish three ITIs at Ipoh, Kuantan and Malacca;
(e)   prepare for the future establishment of two ITIs at Alor Setar and
Kota Bharu;
(f)   promote training in industry, improve training programs and
materials, increase facility utilization, strengthen ITI
management, and train teaching and management staff; and
Monitorinz and Review
(g)   strengthen monitoring and review activities for the proposed
project.
6.    In addition to the above, the project also provided for the support of
feasibility studies and pilot schemes for future investments in industrial
training.
7.    When the five polytechnics covered by the project become fully
operational (three will be finished under the second project in the investment
program, Loan 2601-MA), they will each have an annual output of 600 students
in certificate courses of 2 1/ years duration, including 6 months industrial
attachment. When the five ITIs covered by the project become fully
operational (two will be finished under Loan 2601-MA), they will each have an
annual output of some 500 - 600 students in a varied program of courses.
Proiect Design and Organization
8.    Based upon information available when the appraisal report was issued
(April 1982). the conceptual framework for the project was appropriate and
clearly stated. The project was designed over a two-year period, with inputs
from the Government's central planning authorities, participating
ministries/institutions and Bank staff/consultants. Following the appraisal
and subsequent approval of the project, there was one significant change in
the project design. The planned polytechnic at Gombak was dropped becaupe the
site became unavailable. Instead, the Alor Setar site was selected for
construction rather than just site preparation. It was decided that the site
for the planned Port Dickson Polytechnic (Loan 2601-MA) would be prepared
under the loan.
9.    The scope and scale of the project were appropriate as the first phase
of the Government's planned investment program in industrial training. The
project also provided considerable front-end preparation to support the next
project, the Second Industrial Training Project (Loan 2601-MA), which is now
being implemented. Likewise, the preparation and expected timing of the
various project activities were well considered and documented. However, it
shculd also be noted that the costing of the project was overestimated. This
resulted in a total cancellation of US$12.8 million from the Bank loan. The
project was prepared with limited, clearly stated objectives. Each of these



-4-
objectives was linked to the design and timing of the subsequent project (Loan
2601-MA) and to the Government's overall, two-phase investment program.
10.   The project was implemented by the Ministry of Education (MOE) for
technician training (polytechnic), and the Ministry of Labor and Manpower
(MOLM), for the skilled worker training (ITI). The project implementation
unit (PIU) for the polytechnics was located in the Development Supply Division
(DSD) of MOE. The PIU for the industrial training institutes was located in
the Manpower Division of the MOLM. The roles of the PIUs and the
participating ministerial departments and institutions were well considered
and clearly understood by all parties. There have been few difficulties
encountered in the coordination between the two ministries.
Proiect Implementation
11.   Critical Variances in Project Implementation. Both the MOLM and MOE
experienced contracting and procurement difficulties which resulted in
implementation variances. In several cases, these problems forced serious
schedule changes, losses in disbursement and other implementation problems. Of
particular concern were the following: (a) several project institutions
suffered significant delays in construction; (b) four civil works contracts
(one polytechnic and three ITIs had to be cancelled for lack of contract
compliance and subsequently retendered; (c) there were significant delays in
equipment procurement; and (d) the Batu Pahat Polytechnic had serious design
flaws which were not discovered until after construction was completed and
students were enrolled.
12.   The delays in construction may be traced to a number of factors: (a) the
contractors had to contract and operate during an economic recession. Some
contracts were bid too low because civil works contracts were few and the
competition was strong. As the economy changed, many contractors had cashflow
problems. They found it difficult to obtain bonds and to borrow money.
Several were forced to operate on performance payments from the Government.
This type of financing was inadequate and often resulted in slow progress and
delayed schedules; (b) there were several slowdowns resulting from inclement
weather; and (c) at some construction sices, there were critical shortages of
labor.
13.   It is not l.kely that any feasible action could have helped the civil
works contractors to avoid many of their cashflow and labor-related problems.
Conditions were simply driven by the economy at the time. If the difficulties
had been foreseen, '.t might have been possible to arrange some type of local
bank financing through which the contractors could have obtained bonds and
borrowed funds on a cost-recovery basis.
14.   The slow equipment procurement was the result of:  (a) delays in
constiuction; (b) Government policy which does not allow equipment
procurement until about 60% of the construction was complete; and (c) the
Government's decisions to procure through a large centralized effort, rather
than procuring the equipment as each institution was near completion. This
was done to try to take advantages of scale in purchasing. In addition, there



-5-
were some technical issues. In both ministries, the specifications for
equipment were not provided in enough detail by the procurement advisors as
required by their contract. Th.s resulted in additional delays as the
specifications had to be rewritten, refined and upgraded. In the case of MOE,
additional courses were programmed after the first procurement effort.
Similarly, the MOLM decided in 1985 to modify the curriculum to relate more
directly to industrial needs. These changes, recommended by their curriculum
advisors, required reprogramming and additional procurement of equipment.
15.   The Batu Pahat Polytechnic was planned for completion in June 1986, but
it was not actually completed until August 1986. It was occupied in January
1987 with the first classes starting in July 1987. Just before and following
that date, serious design faults were discovered which forced the evacuation
of the instit-te for safety reasons (floors were sinking, which in turn,
destroyed electrical and plumbing services). Students and staff have been
moved to temporary facilities and other institutions. The Government is
currently involved in a court action seeking damages from the
architectual/engineering firm that designed the institution. It is estimated
that it will require between M$8.0 million and M$15.0 million to repair the
damage to the institute. The Government has agreed either to assume the costs
of repair or collect damages from the contractor(s) involved.
16.    Studies of this unfortunate situation by Jabatan Kerja Raya (JKR), the
.ublic Works Department, found that soil instability was the key factor that
caused the damage. Prior to construction, a soil test was conducted, by the
design contractor, but the conditions required additional testing. This
additional testing was not done. Consequently, the design was prepared with
inadequate data. In the future. the Government and the Bank should be more
concerned about the condition of the soil at sites where major investments in
civil works were planned. This is particularly true in areas where there has
been a history of soil instability and damage to large structures from soil
settlement.
17.   There are several lessons to be learned:  (a) the MOE PIU was
significantly understaffed; these units should have been strengthened with
more qualified staff; (b) planning and coordination should have been
strengthened to meet project schedules; (c) procurement advisors' contracts
for the preparation of equipment specifications should have been legally.
strengthened and awarded as early as possible to allow time for staffing and
mobilization of effort; and (d) record-keeping should have been strengthened
to improve data analysis (i.e., error checking), control of redundancies
within institutions, and computer-supported procurement packaging.
18.   Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance contractor was a single
company which was contracted separately by MOE and MOLM to provide services.
Both ministries have identified several unsatisfactory outcomes from the
performance of this contractor. In the case of MOE, the contractor was unable
to provide, with continuity, detailed equipment specifications as required by
the contract (para. 14).
19.   MOLM found the fellowship programs provided to be unsatisfactory.
Consequently, only 13 fellows were sent overseas for training by the Ministry.



-6-
The Ministry also found that the contractor's Malaysia-based expatriate
consultants were less than adequate to train counterparts and develop the
types of curricula needed. It was also noted that the contracts with this
technical assistance contractor were poorly written and difficult to enforce.
These perceived inadequacies resulted in a Government decision to limit the
fellowship training and make minimum use of the contracted consultants, and to
rely upon its own resources and other technical assistance available from a
bi-lateral donor (Canadian CIDA).
20.   Studies and Pilot Schemes. The project also provided for the conducting
of studies and pilot schemes in industrial training. One study (by W.D. Scott,
June 1984) was conducted. The findings and recommendations of this study were
reflected in the Government's Industrial Master Plan and the study was
considered a major influence in the establishment of a National Vocational
Training Council in May 1989.
21.   A demonstration of a double tax incentive scheme was also tried, but was
considered largely unsuccessful. Studies relating to short-term innovative
training were not implemented (see Table 6B and para. 37).
22.   Proiect Risks. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified three risks
to the implementation of the project (para. 6.03). The first related to the
possibility that project implementation schedules might be affected adversely
by inadequate program management. A review of the actual implementation
history revealed that the PIU staff was upgraded to a level whereby it should
have been able to manage the various components of the project; however,
continued growth and demand from other projects, also being implemented by the
Government, seriously reduced the effectiveness of PIUs. This is particularly
evident in the areas of procurement and project documentation. At present,
the MOE PIU is managing at least five projects with little or no growth in
overall capacity over the past several years. The MOLM PIU has only a few
staff to support the implementation of the ITIs. Clearly, this low level of
staffing was inadequate to support the project.
23.   The second potential risk was related to the limited capacity of the
construction industry to support the construction needs of the project.
Although there have been problems during implementation with civil works
contractors, the capacity of the construction industry has not been considered
a significant factor in these problems.
24.   The third risk involved the possibility of continued under-enrollment at
the ITIs due to the lack of interested trainees and employers. During the
first year or two of the project, this was a pervasive problem, and was the
primary reason for the reorganization of the ITI system to provide more pre-
service training to meet employer needs for entry-level workers. The current
total capacity of the ITI delivery system is about 6,000 students. For tne
past three years, applications for new enrollments have ranged from 4,000 to
8,000 students per year. The state of the economy seems to have some influence
upon the number of applicants during a given year. On average, enrollments in
the system would be considered appropriate, given the newness of the ITIs and
the current employment potential of the graduates.



-7-
25.   Government Actions Taken or not Taken which Affected Proiect
Implementation. The MOE PIU has requested more staff to support the
implementation of the project. The Government has been gradually responding
to this request. Recently the PIU has received additional staff to support
the civil works and accounting areas. This situation continues to improve,
but it must be recognized as an influence on the implementation of the
project. Staff shortages have surely contributed to a loss of efficiency and
a frustration and lowering of staff morale in the PIU.
26.   In the case of the MOLM, additional staff were not provided until
required as a condition of Loan 2601-MA. Gradually, over the past several
years, the level of staffing has again been decreasing while the workload of
the Unit has been increasing due to the delay of implementation experienced in
Loan 2145-MA. The lack of effective staffing must be considered an important
barrier to project implementation.
27.   The Government made no major policy changes during the course of
project. The Government is still firmly committed to the established need for
the project and has supported a subsequent project (Loan 2601-MA) as the
second phase of their investment program in industrial training. Because of
this, both projects are closely linked to the subsector development strategies
of the Fourth and Fifth Five-Year Development Plans (1980-1990).
Haior Results of the Proiect A/
28.   Project Objectives.  Training capacity goals for the polytechnics have
been reached as planned, while capacity goals for the ITIs were not met by the
time of the closure of the loan due to delays in the completion of the civil
works.
29.   Resource utilization has been increased by a number of measures.  The
ITIs have modified their course offerings in order to be more responsive to
the needs of industry and to allow entry into the programs every six months.
The polytechnics offer short term -rograms and evening programs. A decision
has recently been made to move toi    larger and more cost-effective
institutions where the labor markeL. demand warrants. They have also decided
to increase the 30:1 student/teacher ratios to 40:1 where the facilities,
allow. Both ITIs and polytechnics have altered their policies so that they
can offer training services to industry on a cost-recovery basis.
30.   Courses have been developed in new subject areas and specializations in
response to national and regional needs. Forma and informal advisory
committees have been established at a number of instit tions. As a result of
the success of the effort at the institutional level, tnis practice is being
considered for implementation at national level   The teaching staff for the
new institutions have been trained. Feasibility studies for new courses now
include analyses of the needs of the end users. Expatriate consultants have
studied needs of industry and developed or revised courses to target them more
/4 Refer to Part III, Table 6a for project results at completion.



-8-
directly on the needs of industry. New apprenticeship programs have been
established for ITIs.
31.   Management at the institutional level has been improved by the creation
of internal academic and examinations boards and by changes in the internal
organizational structures and procedures.
32.   Management of the MOE and MOLM training systems has been improved
through the increase in the level of staffing, fellowships for training, and
computerization. A marked improvement in management capacity has been noted
over the duration of the project.
33.   Impact of Project.  The potential impact of the project is
considerable. When fully implemented, the participating institutions will
meet or exceed the projected output targets for trained workers and
technicians. The trained workers are readily employed and immediately
contribute to the industrial development goals of the country. Because of the
relatively large scale of the institutions and the institutions' demonstrated
ability to control drop-outs, annual unit costs for the training in both the
ITIs and the polytechnics are reasonable. Annually, they have an average
range from M$2025 (US$750) to about M$2,430 (US$900), including the cost of
room and board. The employment statistics suggest that the average placement
of graduates from both systems ranges from 85% to 96X after the first year.
The moderate costs for training, coupled with the potential for improving the
external efficiency (and growing wage differentials) combine to support the
assumption that the calculated rates of return for both types of institutions
would be good to excellent.
34.   The institutional impact of the project can be seen in the broadened
scope of services provided and new specializations introduced, based on
industry demand. This led to increased additional staff requirements. In
addition, the in-plant training unit, initially planned for centralized
implementation, was not implemented centrally but locally at the institutional
level.
35.   The number of new academic staff appointed to the five polytechnics was
greater than the planned (610 appointed compared to 464 planned) because a
number of new courses were added. A substantial amount of skill upgradipg was
implemented. with a 85 new staff receiving 697 person-months of upgrading.
For the ITIs, 118 new staff received training, and 21 were given fellowships
for overseas training. Most project management related fellowships under MOE
were implemented, but most of the measures planned to improve management
capacity of the ITIs were not implemented.
36.   The technical assistance envisaged in the project was provided outside
the framework of the loan. Utilizing donor support from Canada and Australia,
lower cost alternatives were used, involving use of expatriate consultants and
management specialists brought in to support the organization and design of
training programs and other development work. In addition to being less
expensive, this approach was perceived to be qualitatively higher than the
original plan.



-9-
37. Only two of the three planned studies were carried out. The third
study, concerning prepararion of a short-term innovative training scheme, was
dropped, but a number of direct institutional reforms addressed this issue.
Individual institutions have sinci been authorized to provide such short-term
training in response to the needs of local employers. This program has been
quite successful and has been replicated in all of the polytechnics and ITIs.
Proiect Sustainability
38. The potential for project sustainability is excellent. The Government
has been consistent in its commitment to the concept of the polytechnics and
ITIs with plans for the ongoing maintenance and improvement of the systems.
The administrative units in both ministries are well established and
experienced. In addition, the institutions are well designed, sited, built,
staffed and equipped. Prospects for long-term financing and linkage to
industry are promoted by a set of far-reaching policy reforms recently
prepared by a cabinet-level committee. These reforms include (1) the
establishment of permanent advisory committees at the institutional and
national levels; (2) increased flexibility in the management of educational
and training institutions in matters of course design and curriculum; (3)
greater collaboration with the private sector in setting up courses and
training programs on a cost-sharing or cost-recovery basis; (4) undertaking
studies to explore the corporatization of training institutions to make them
more effective; (5) the establishment of Centers of Excellence which would
focus on research and development in new and emerging technologies in specific
industries; (6) a continual review and improvement of course design and
curriculum to suit market needs; and (7) wider dissemination of labor market
information. especially to employers, school leavers, and workers.
39. With these factors present, there is every reason to assume that the
institutions will continue to provide large quantities of trained manpower to
the industries of Malaysia. Coupled with these factors. the Government has
recently ruled that all public service technicians must be graduates of
polytechnic institutes. About 15,000 applications per year are received for
the currently available openings in the polytechnics (about 3,000 per year).
The Government is also considering the implementation of a third polytechnic
project in 1993.
Bank Performance
40.   1ajor Strengths and Weaknesses.  The original project contained some
activities that were of little interest to the Government. Although agreed
upon by both the Bank and the Government, over the course of the project, the
Government did not place a high priority on the implementation of these
subcomu,onents. These subcomponents included some of the planned
consultancies, the studies and pilot schemes and the industry/apprenticeship
schemes. To some extent, these activities were addressed, but they were not
as successful as they should have been. In future projects, it may be useful
for the Bank to focus more on the design of projects wherein the Government



-10-
and the Bank have a stronger mutual commitment to full implementation of all
of the project components.
41.   Bank preparation missions and the Government also overestimated the
costs of the project. There were several reasons for this. The costs for
three site preparations (less then US$1.0 million) were included in civil
works contracts for those institutions which were authorized for payment under
Loan 2601-MA. The economy was unstable at the time of appraisal and there was
a need to be cautious in the estimations. Shortly after the loan was
approved, the economy slipped into a recession which allowed the Government to
award most of its larger contracts at much lower prices than originally
estimated. The inflated appraisal estimates also drove price contingencies
up, contributing even more to the overestimation. Finally, the value of the
Malaysian currency changed over the life of the project to a more favorable
exchange rate. All these factors served to inflate the estimates to more than
100% of the actual costs. This variance is too large and was costly to the
Government as it was paying commitment charges on the Bank loan. The Bank
supervision missions repeatedly nointed to this concern. The Government should
have requested cancellation of funds much earlier than it did.
42.   Early in the implementation cycle. the Bank determined that the project
was having problems in the contracting of civil works. Since that time, the
Bank has provided significant inputs through its supervision missions. The
fact that the project was tied to the Second Industrial Training Project (Loan
2601-MA) was, in general, an advantage to the implementation of both projects.
Because both projects were often supervised during the same review mission, it
was possible to support the coordination and linkage of the two to a common
set of goals and objectives. These missions were much more cost effective and
often provided a better quality of Bank input than would have been possible
under the usual supervision arrangements. In addition, the existence of Loan
2601-MA provided some flexibility in the scheduling of site preparations and
construction activities within this project.
43.   Throughout this project, there has been significant turnover in the
Bank's task managers, disbursement officers, and supervising lawyers. Part of
this situation may be attributed to the Bank's reorganization and the normal
movement of staff from division to division. Nevertheless, there is reason to
believe that the Government has been given mixed signals regarding Bank ,
procedures and requirements and that a more coordinated approach would have
resulted in a stronger implementation of the project.
44.   It should be noted that the initial implementation problems which would
have to be judged as critical, were gradually solved, although it must be
recognized that the initial delays and difficulties were insurmountable during
the project. The subsequent project has shown improved implementation
efficiency due in part to formative evaluation in the Bank supervision
process. The weaknesses were due to solvable problems. and with continued
inputs, improvements were made to the point that the project unit in MOE is
now fully capable of managing projects -- in fact now managing many projects
from many agencies.



-1l-
Borrower Perfogmance
45.   Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  The Government has a strong commitment
to the overall development of polytechnics and ITIs. It has been remarkably
stable in its support of these institutions. The institutions are well
received by the Government'_ administrative agencies who operate them.
Pedagogical and administrative planning has been satisfactory. The Government
has also allocated the necessary funds to operate the institutions at levels
which were expected by the Bank.
46.   However, the Government did Live many problems in the implementation of
the project. Throughout the duration of the project, there were staff
shortages in the PIUs and limitations in the skills necessary to effectively
implement the project. Future projects should include the upgrading of PIU
capacity, including the recruitment of qualified staff, the training of senior
officers and the establishment of improved management information systems.
Proiect RelationshiD
47.   The staffs of the PIUs and the Bank staff have an excellent working
relationship. The PIU staffs have considerable experience in their dealings
with the Bank and other multi-lateral and bi-lateral donor organizations. In
this project and in the previous projects, the relationships have generally
been open and positive. There is every reason to believe that future
relationships will be of the same nature.
48.   ImRact of RelationshiR on Proiect IMRlementation.  The PIU staff
relationships with the Bank have not been a serious factor in the
implementation of the project. The Bank had some difficulty in obtaining
audit certificates for the project accounts and appropriate proof of
expenditures for the Statement of Expenditure (SOE) accounts. However, in
both cases, these problems were resolved after discussions with the
Government.
Consulting Services
49.   A single technical assistance contractor provided consulting services
and fellowship/training services to both the MOIM and the MOE under separate
contracts. The role of the contractor was significant and was a major
determinant in the implementation of the project.
50.   The MOLM had serious difficulties with the contractor who provided
consultants who were unable to provide the level and quality of services that
were agreed upon. Schedules were not maintained and the outputs were
disappointing. In addition, the fellowship program provided by the contractor
failed to meet the expectations of the MOLM. As a result, the MOLM decided to
refrain from purchasing the authorized quantity of services from the
contractor. Only a small portion of the contract was executed. This resulted
in a substantial variance in the training/fellowship and consulting services
provided under the provisions of the loan.



-12-
51.   The MOE also had several problems with the contractor.  The contractor
failed to meet the requirements of its terms of reference in several
instances. There were documented instances of ineffective fellowship services
and the provision of inadequate equipment specifications which had to be
redone. Through these, the contractor was considered responsible for some
project delays.
Proiect Documentation and Data
52.   Adequacy of Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and Maior Papers. The SAR and
the supporting papers were well prepared and provided the essential data
required to finance and implement the project. Although changing in format and
prepared by several Bank staff, the supervision reports were reasonably well
done and generally consistent in their findings and recommendations.
53. Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Mission. The project has improved
its documentation considerably over the duration of the project. Within the
past two years, much of the essential documentation w-ithin the MOE has been
computerized and is made available in various formats. Although there were
some errors noted, the PCR mission generally found that the MOE project data
were of high quality and directly related to the needs of the mission. As
expected, the quality of the data from earlier years (1984-5) was less
satisfactory.
54.   Within the MOLM, there were severe limitations in the PIU's capacity to
provide the required data. The PCR mission did receive excellent cooperation
from the Unit, which allowed the mission to collect much of the required data
through interviews and the analysis of various related documents.



-13-
Part II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER!S PERSPECTIVE
Adeouacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
55.   The factual data presented in Part III are both accurate and adequate
for the purpose intended. The data are fairly presented and should provide the
reader with some insight to the strengths and weaknesses of project
implementation.
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
56.   The Bank has provided significant input into the implementation of the
project. Over the duration of the project, numerous Bank missions have
visited Malaysia. Although these missions have been helpful to the Government,
several concerns were noted over the years. These are listed as follows:
(a)   There was a lack of continuity in the interpretation of
procurement guidelines. As Bank staff and management changed,
procurement guidelines were interpreted in different and sometimes
confusing ways;
(b)   There was a lack of flexibility and continuity in the
interpretation of guidelines for proof of purchase for SOEs. The
Government perceived that it had an understanding regarding proof
of purchase, based upon its unique situation. As Bank staff and
management changed, the issue had to be revisited and major
changes were necessary, late in the project cycle, to meet the
requirements of the Bank;
(c)   There was only limited recognition of the ethnic-religious issues
that must be dealt with by the MOE and MOLK. The Bank has not
appreciated the related requirements of the Government; 5/
(d)   Many missions were understanding and helpful, making commitments
which were later modified by the Washington office. This created
some confusion and sometimes required additional communications to
clarify and reach agreements on issues and actions; and
(e)   Some earlier mission members were not knowledgeable about the
technical aspects of vocational-technical education (VTE) and its
unique implementation requirements. Technical projects such as
this one should be supervised and assisted by internationally
experienced specialists who can, in turn, assist the PIU to
4/ This statement relates to the differences of opinion between the Bank and
the Government relating to the establishment of schools which would limit
enrollment of students from specific ethnic or religious backgrounds.



-14-
maximize the potential of the project activities. This issue has
been rectified over the past couple of years.
57.   As stated in Part I, there has been a lack of continuity in the
supervision of the project as Bank personnel have changed over the years. This
has resulted in some mis-communication and confusion. It is also perceived
that there may be a need to provide a stronger foundation of historical
documentation so that future missions can understand the unique issues being
faced by the implementing agency. In addition, new Bank personnel should be
required to adhere to previous Bank commitments and agreed upon procedures.
These commitments and procedures should be well documented for the benefit of
both parties.
58.   Maior Lessons Learned.  Future projects would be improved if there were
an early clarification and understanding between the Government and the Bank
regarding both parties' expectations and procedures. There should also be
more flexibility and continuity given to the interpretation of the various
documentation requirements of the Bank. Bank supervision missions should be
staffed with qualified technical personnel who understand and can advise the
Government on the implementation of the project. Likewise, the attrition and
restaffing of the supervision teams should be reduced to a minimum level.
Associated with this issue, the Bank should recognize the need for continuity
in its supervision process and should seek to better support the decision-
making and recommendations of the missions.
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
59.   The two PIUs have both experienced many difficulties in implementing the
Project. The following issues are of particular note.
60.   Major Lessons Learned. In the administration of the project, it has
become obvious that the level of staffing is directly related to the quality
of implementation. Throughout the implementation period, both units have been
understaffed. The result is a significantly reduced capacity to monitor and
document the costs and activities of the project and to administer the myriad
of activities required.
61.   In the procurement of civil works, there is a need to tighten up the
contractual procedures and requirements to insure better qualified bidders and
to maintain control of schedules and costs. In a'ldition, there is a need to
initiate better field supervision of the contractors. Associated with this is
a need for a more thorough analysis of soil conditions at building sites. If
this had been done in the existing project, it is unlikely that the Batu Pahat
Polytechnic would have been so damaged by soil settlement.
62.   In the procurement of equipment, the line agencies and their contractors
should be more concerned about the timely preparation of course requirements
and equipment specifications to eliminate time losses resulting from
cancellation of orders, rebidding and redundancy of orders. The contractual
arrangements with consultants should be tightened to insure better qualified
bidders and adherence to agreed upon schedules and deliverables. More careful



-15-
contract supervision and willingness to require good performance is also
needed.
Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank and Borrower
63.   The relationship between the Bank and the Government of Malaysia has
been excellent. Issues of concern are discussed openly and both organizations
have been eager to resolve the issues as soon as possible.



-16-
PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORHMTION
1.     Related Bank Loans
Loan                                             Ter of
Title          Porpoe                             Approval         status                     CoeMOts
Ln. 599-MA     Increase out ut of                   1969         Completed                    Successful
First          skilled middle-level                                                          lIplementation
Education      m npover through con-                                                          overall
Project        structlon of 6 vocational
*econdary schools and 5
technical secondary
schools
Ln. 810-M&     Increase technical and               1972          Completed                   Successful
Secondary      vocational training with
Education      7 more vocational and ona
Project        technical secondary schools
Ln. 914-M      Assist in technical                  1974         Completed                    Successful
Third          trainin  through estab-
Education      llsnent of one poly-
Project        technic at Kuantan
Ln. 1329-MA    Support industrial skill             1976          Completed                   Successful
Fourth         trainin_ through addition
Education      of 3 Industrial training
Project        Institutes (ITIs)
Ln. 1657-MA    Assist in development of             1979         Completed                    Successful
Fifth          long-term strategies for
Education      middle-level occupational
Project        training
Ln. 2601-M     Assist in the establishment          1985         Ongoing                      Second *tage of
Second         of two polytechnics and two                                                    GM investment
Industrial     ITfs as a second stage to                                                      program
Lu 2145-MA



-17-
2.     Prolect Timetable
Date                          Date                       Data
Item                           PLaUn"                        RAvisd                     ictual
-Identification                04-02-80                      04-02-80                   04-02-80
-Preparation                   11-01-81                      05-04-81                   05-04-81
-Appraisal Hission             12-01-81                      08-01-81                   08-01-81
-Loan Negotiations             07-01-82                      04-05-82                   04-05-82
-BOard Approval                09-01-82                      05-18-82                   05-18-82
-LOan/Credit Signature         10-07-82                       10-07-82                  10-07-82
-Loan/Credit Effectiveness     01-03-83                      01-03-83                   01-03-83
-Project Completion            06-30-87                      06-30-89                   06-30-89
-Loan/Credit Closing           06-30-88                      06-30-89                   06-30-89
Comments:
At the identification level. senior Bank management expressed concern ragarding the
possibility of financing the Mara Technical Institute (1IM) Hotel and Catering Management
School because it excluded admission of non-Malays. Issue-s regarding the need for
coordination of VTE and the financing of recurrent costs were also addressed.
3.     Loan Disbursements
ElSuasd and Actual Disburse VA;g
(US$ millions) /1
category                         1983   1984   1985   1986   !,07   1988   1989  1990
Appraisal Estimate                1.6    3.8    8.6   17.8   29.6   40.6   40.6   40.6
Re1ional PrOfile                 0.0    0.7    2.0    6.6   13.5   20.4   32.5   34.6
Revised Estimate /2               1.3    2.1    4.2   10.8   15.3   21.6   24.5   34.6(sic)
Actual /3                         1.3    2.1    4.2   10.8   15.2   21.6   23.8   27.8
Actual as I Appraisal Estimate   82.5   56.0   48.6   60.6   53.3  53.1  56.6   68.4
/1     DisbureQant are prosented as twUaative from yer to year.
/2     FollowLng cancellation of US$6.0 million on June 20. 1989.
/3     On January 18. 1990, the BDank cancelled the unused portion of the loan totaling
US$6,789,123.25
Date of Final Disbursement: December 28. 1989



-18-
4.     Project Imilemnentation
Project Components                     Planned                 Acttal
Completion             CompletIon                      Nonths of Delay
Civil Works and Site Development:
Polytechnies:/1
a) Batu Pahat              06-86                   08-86                                   2
b) Alor Setar              06-86                   03-87                                   7
ITIs:
a) Ipoh                    06-86                   12-89                                   42
(b  Kuantan                 06-86                   10-88                                   28
c  Malacca                 06-86                   10-88                                   28
Site Development (only):
Polytecbn"is:
(a) Kota Bharu              12-84                   07-85                                   7
(b) Kuching                 12-84                   02-85                                   3
ic) Port Dickson             12-84                  NA  /2                                  NA
'TI.:
(a) Alor Setar              06-87                   NA  /2                                  NA
(b) Kota Bharu              06-87                   NA  /2                                  NA
Furniture and Euipment:
Polytechnics:                    12-86                   06-89                                   30
ITIs:
(a) lpoh                    10-86                   12-89                                   42
(bal Kuantan                10-86                   12-88                                   30
(c Malacca                  10-86                   12-88                                   30
chnical Assistance:
(a) Polytechnics            NA                      NA                                      NA /3
(b) ITIs                     6-87                   12-89                                   30 /4
/1      Initially civil works were to be done at Gombak, and site development was to be done at Alor
Setar. Plans were later changed. however, so that both site development and civil works were
done at Alor Setar.
/2     Site works were included in the building works contracts under Loan 2601-MA.
/3     Changing Terms-of-Reference and additional con:ract awards to the  same contractor combine to
make comparison inappropriate.
/4     MOWL  stopped purchasing services from the contractor without canceling the contract.



-19-
5.     Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(US millions)
Appraisal hbti  t-             Revised Kstloto '84                    Actual
foreign                       foreign                          Foreign
Loal Ehange                    Local Exchange                 Local Exchange
Category                       Costs  Costs   Total           Costs  Costs   Total            Costs  Costs   Total
Construction
Site development /1           13.4    4.5   17.9             12.9    8.6   21.5               7.0    0.0    7.0
Building                      23.7    7.9   31.6             17.1   11.4   28.5              21.8    1.7   23.5
Professional Services         11.6    1.3   12.9             10.0    4.0   14.0               6.9    0.0    6.9
Furniture                       2.7    0.9    3.6              2.7    0.9    3.6               3.6    0.0    3.5
Equipment                       2.4   13.6   16.0              1.6    9.1   10.7               1.9   10.5   12.4
Technical assistance
Fellowships                    0.3    2.3    2.6              0.3    2.0    2.3               0.0    1.6    1.6
Specialists Service            0.3    3.0    3.3              0.3    2.0    2.3               0.2    1.3    1.5
Contintencies
Physical                       5.4    3.3    8.7              2.0    1.0    3.0               0.0    0.0    0.0
Price escalation              15.4   10.7   26.1              2.1    1.0    3.1               0.0    0.0    0.0
Front-end fee                   0.0    0.6    0.6              0.0    0.6    0.6               0.0    0.6    0.6
Total                          75.2   48.0   123.2            49.0   40.6   89.6              41.4   15.7   57.1
Per Cent                       61.0   39.0   100.0            54.7   45.3  100.0              72.5   27.5  100.0
/1 One polytechnic and two ITI sites were costed at appraisal (about US$700,000) but later
financed through construction contracts authorized under Loan 2601-MA



-20-
B. Proiect FIronaLcng
Source                                 Aggemat Z    Rawlse  '64  S         Raevld '89 /1  S           fi"al       2
Clvil works                          11.0    25    20.0            40     13.5             40        12.8      40
Professional Services                 6.0    40       4.0         40       3.5            40          5.1      40
Equipment. Vehicles
M Haterials /2                      14.0   100    10.0          100      19.2           100          5.6    100
100                 100                     100                 100
40                  40                      40                  40
Conaultant Services 
Fellovships                         7.0   100       4.0         100      3.8            100         3.8    100
Fee                                   0.6   amount  0.6          "ount   0.6              mount       0.6    amount
due                 due                     due                 due
Unallocated                           2.0    -        2.0         -        0.0            -           0.0      -
Subtotal                             40.6    33    40.6           45      40.6            51         27.8      49
Gevrnmsnt                              82.6    67    49.0            55     39.4             49        29.3      51
Total                               123.2     -      89.6         -       80.0            -          57.1      -
/1     In 1-89 the Governent requested and was granted the reallocation a  presented.  In 6-89, the
Goernment requested and was granted a cancellation of US$6.0 million from the loan. This
cancellation ls not included in the revised allocation as it was taken from the undisbursed
amot. The reallocation is reflected In the final figures.
/2      The per cent of ezpenditure on equlpment. vehicles and materials to be financed is as follows:
100l of fore lgnependitures. IOOZ of local expenditures ex-factory. and 402 of other Ltems
procured locally.



-21-
6.       Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits of Proiect
Ratimted
Appraisal      Actual at         at rull
Lndicators                                satinat        Closing Date      Development
PoLyamccs
Civil Works and Construction:
(a) Invitation to bid tor site works
(first 2 polytechnics)               Complete 3-82    Complete 3-83    Complete 3-83
(bi  Invitation to bid for buildiug wks  Complete 9-82    Complete 7-84    Complete 7-84
a   Construction                          Start 4-83       Start 4-84        Start 4-84
Finish mid-86    Finish 3-87       Finish 3-87
(d) Alor Setar and Kota Bharu site
Acquisition                          Complete 12-82   Complete 3-82    Complete 3-82
Ooeration of New Polvtechnic:
(e) Total annual student intake in
new institutes (2)                    1200 by 1-87     1355 /1           2400 (1-91)
(f) Total annual student output
from new institutes (2)              1200 by 1-89      780               2400 (1-92)
Staffint and Staff Development:
(g)  Total academic staff appointed
to five new polytechnics             464 by 1-89       610               650
(h)  Total new staff undertaking skill
upgrading overseas fellowships        110              85                85
(i)  Total new staff fellowship
man-montha                            1040             697               697
1   Number of principals in  ost          2                 4                 5
Number of Ministry staff
directly concerned with              In accordance    Complete           Complete
polytechnics                         with needs
(1) Number of Ministry and other
Senior staff completing project      About 50 staff   52                 52
management related fellowships        164 man-months   153               153
Technical Assistance:
(m) Curriculum development and
equipment specification              40 man-months    40                 40
in)  Implementation of courses            27 man-months    12                 12
o) Management aspects                     16 man-months    0                 0
Institutional Development:
(Fp Upigrade data collection and
analysis capacity within
the PIU and DSD                       Unspecified       50S              Fully
Computerized     Computerized
(q) Upgrade management capacity
of PIU and DSD to plan and implement
development projects                 Unspecified      -Senior MWmt       NA
trained in
international
procurement (ILO)
-Architectual     Additional
support staff    as required
added to PIU
-Accounting       Additional
staff added      as required
to PIU
Monitorlnt and Reiews
_r   uata review                         Twice each year  Twice each year  Twice each year
s   Staff fellowships                     9 man-months      0                 0



-22-
contlnued,
INDUSTRIA  TRAININ  MSTITUTIS
Civil Works and Construction:
(t)  Site acquisition - Alor Setar         Complete 7-82    10-83              10-83
- Kota Bharu        Complete 12-82   12-83              12-83
(u) Preparation of tender documents
for buildings                         Complete 8-82    1-85               1-85
(v)  Construction of 3 institutes          Start 4-83        11-86             11-86
- Kuantan           Finish mid-86    10-88              10-88
- M4alacca          Finish mid-86    10-88              10-88
- Ipoh              Finish mid-86    12-89              12-89
(v)  Establisbment of new training
capacity                              1260 by 1986      262 /2            1470
Improvement in Trainina Oualitv:
(x)  Curriculum development & training
materials
: Specialist services          18 man-months    54                 54
: Overseas fellowships         18 man-months    18                 18
ty) Introduction of 3-year
consolidated apprenticeship
training including 18 months
of ITI training in first 2 years    Complete            Complete          Complete
Staff Develo vmnt:
(z) Scholarshlp program for appoint-
ment of new staff                     207 trained       118               207
(aa) Overseas fellowship training for
new staff                             150 man-months   21                 30
Development of ManaRement Capacity:
( b)  ITI senior staff training             105 man-months   9                  60
(ac) Creation of Training Operation
Unit                                  14 new staff      Complete 1-85    Complete 1-85
(ad) Fellowships for new staff             30 man-months    0                  0
ae) Specialist services                   36 man-months    0                  0
iaf) In-plant Training Unit                29 new training  Not implm'ted/3  Not implm'ted
officers
(ag) Training Resource Unit                9 new technical  Complete /4        Complete
staff
(ah) Implementation Unit                   5 new staff       Not implm'ted/5  Not implm'ted
Promotion of Skill Trainina in Industry:
(ai) Specialist services                   36 mam-months    6                  6
(aj) Training fellowships for training
officers                              48 man-months    5                  5
itoring and Review:
(ak) Data review                           Twice each year  Not implm'ted    Not implm'ted
(al) Staff fellowships                     9 man-months      Not implm'ted    Not implm'ted
/1     When Batu Pahat Polytechnic was shut down for reconstruction, its reduced eurollment
(about 400 students) was redistributed between the other existing polytechnics and
work experience programs. These students were included in the input and output totals
for the two new institutions. It should also be noted that Kota Bharu and KRtching
Polytechnics (planned for site works only) were also completed during the project
period with an initial annual enrollment of about 900 students. These students vere
not included in the above indicators.
/2     At closing date, this sum included only Kuantan (119) and Malacca (143).  By 1990, the
enrollment at Melaka, Kuantan and lpoh had a total of 600 students, with an intake for
that year of 420. It is planned that the remaining capacity will come on line as
teachers and curricula are phased in over the next year.
/3      In-plant training unit was scrapped because it vas not effective, and functions were
taken over by the lTIs. The Bank supported this change, as it provides a more
decentralized and efficient approach to meeting the demands of employers.
/4     The training resource unit is now called the technical unit.  It has evolved into a
more efficient unit with a scope of services that exceed project expectations.
/5     The upgrading of staff and capacity of the PIU was not implemented until required by
the seventh loan (2601-HA).



-23-
B. Studies
Item                                         Estimated at Closing Date /1
3 studies,
including 6 man-months
of specialist services
-  Preparation of short-term                          Not carried out, but local institutions
innovative training scheme                        were authorized to provide such services
-  Study of incentive schemea                         Double tax incentive tried out but
was not successful because (1)
authorities and employers were not
in agreement about target skills and
levels and (2) rules for eligibility
were stringent.
-  Study for future development of                    16 man-months of specialist services
industrial skill training                         were used in study of future develop-
ment of industrial skills. Findings
were tabled to Government in mid-1986.
Findings contributed to development of
National Vocational Training Council.
/1 No further implementation is planned by the Government



-24-
7.     Status of Covenants
Deadline
for
Covenant Subject                          Compliance              Status
3 06   The Borrower shall take or                06-30-88                In compliance
cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the
Project and shall furnish the
Banl, promptly after such
acquisition. evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of
land are available for pur-
roses related to the
project.
3.07   The Borrower shall carry out              06-30-88                In compliance
a scholarship program to train
about 460 instructors for the
five polytechnices under Part A
of the Project in accordance
with a schedule agreed upon
between the Borrower and the
Bank.
3.08   The Borrower shall carry out a            06-30-88                In partial
scholarship program to train                                      compliance.
under about 210 instructors for the                               due to
five ITIs under Part B of the                                     civil works
Project in accordance with a                                      delays /1
schedule agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Bank.
3.09   The Borrower shall provide a              06-30-88                In compliance
three-year apprenticeship
training program with ITI's
training to be consolidated
within the first two years of
apprenticeship beginning
July 1, 1983.
3.10  Escept as the Borrower and the             06-30-88                In compliance,
Bank may otherwise agree, the                                     but the unit
Borrower shall ensure that                                        is now repon-
adequate staff positions                                          sible for
required for the proper carry-                                    other projects
ing out and, thereafter. oper-                                    so it  s
ation and maintenance of the                                      functionally
Project are duly established                                      understaffed
as and when needed and that
qualifled staff are appointed
in a timely manner to fill
said positions.
/1    The required training system is operational. All instructors hired must be
specifically trained and certified prior to assignment to teaching duties.



-25-
8.     Use of Bank Resources
A. Use of Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs /1
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle                   Planned          Revised           Final    Comnents
Through Appraisal                  NA              NA               47.8
Appraisal through
Board Approval                     NA              NA               60.1
Board Approval
through Effectiveness              NA              NA               10.7
Supervision                        NA              NA               49.9
Total                              NA              NA              168.5
/1 Planned and revised data is unavailable.
B. Use of Bank Resources: Missions
Date of                                  Performance
Stage of              Month/  Form   No. of   Days in  Specialization   Rating    Types of
Project Cycle         Year    590    Persons  Field    Represented        Status    Problems
Thrnugh Appraisal     08-81   NA      NA                Econ.,Tech. Ed.,   NA         NA
Arch..Ind. Trug.,
Appraisal through
Board Approval        05-82   NA      NA                Econ., Tech. Ed..   NA        NA
Arch.
Board Approval
through Effectiveness 01-83   NA      NA                Econ., Tech. Ed..  NA        NA
Arch.
Initial Suary         n/a      09-82  1         0       Tech. Ed.            1       Mgt.
Supervision 1         12-82   01-83  3          2       Econ., Tech. Ed.    1        Hgt.
Arch.
Supervision 2         10-83   11-83  1          2       Arch.                1       Hgt.
Supervision 3         04-84   05-84  1          1       Arch.                1       Ngt.
Supervision 4         10-84   11-84  2          2       Arch.. Tech.Ed.      1       Mgt.
Supervision 5         03-86   08-86  1          3       Arch.                1       Ust-
Supervision 6         07-86   07-86  2          5       Arch., Tech. Ed      i       Mgt.
Supervision 7         12-86   12-86  1          3       Const. Spec.         2       Proc.
Supervision 8         03-87   04-87  1          3       Const. Spec.         2       ,t.
Supervision 9         07-87   08-87  1          5       Const. Spec.         2        Mst.
Supervision 10        02-88   03-88  1          2       Ind. Trng.           2       Mgt.
Supervision 11        09-88   09-88  1          6        Ind. Trng.          2       Mgt.
Proc.
Disb.
Supervision 12        01-89   03-89  1          7        Ind. Trng.          2       12gt.
Proc.
Diab.
Supervision 13        02-89   07-89  1          7       Ind. Trng.           2       HRt.
PCR
Proe.
Audits
Disb.



- 27 -
Annex I
Planned and Actual Disbursements 1/
US$ million
50 -
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Appraisal Est.    1.6   3.8   8.6   17.8  29.6  40.6  40.6  40.6
Regional Profile   0    0.69   2.08   6.57  13.49  20.41  32.52  34.6
Actual Disbursements  1.32   2.13  4.18  10.78  15.27  21.57  23.8  28.7
-  Appraisal Est.        i  Regional Profile
Actual Disbursements
1/   Disbursements are cumulative.
Coment:
The above chart illustrates the significant differences between the estimated
disbursements and the recorded actuals. The regional disbursement profile is
a better "fit" to the recorded actuals and, therefore, would have been a
better estimate at appraisal. It also illustrates the effects that optimistic
implementation schedules have on estimated disbursements.



- 28 -
Annex 2
Planned and Actual Costs by Cost Category
US$ million
35-
_0   ...................  ...  .... ...........  .......I..........................................  ...............
25 . .    .                                          ...
20-    
0 --T
SITE  BLDG PF SV FURN EQUIP FELSP SPEC PHYC PRCC  FEE
Appraisal Est.  17.9  31.6  12.9  3.6  16  2.6  3.3  8.7  10.7  0.6
Revised Est. 84 21.5  28.5  14.5  3.6  10.7  2.3  2.3   3   3.1  0.6
Actual Costs  7   25.5  6.9  3.5  12.4  1.6  1.5  0.5   0   0.6
[-Appraisal Est.   +Revised Est. '84  _Actuai Costs|
Comment:
At appraisal, site preparation estimates were particularly high. Some
of the variance (about US$700,000) is explained because three project sites
were originally costed at appraisal, but later financed as a part of the
authorized construction contracts under Loan 2601-MA. The Government was also
able to obtain services at much lower costs for the remainder. This is
likewise true of the cost of professional services. The contingencies
category was particularly high. It is important to note that the 1984
revisions did not improve the estimates much. The savings were mostly taken
from the contingencies category. In fact, the revisions increased the
variance between estimates and actuals in two cost categories and
underestimated the final costs of equipment.



- 29 -
AM" 3
Estimated and Actual Foreign Exchangp C08ts
USS million
25
20  _" .................I......................................................... .......................... ..........................................
15 t
10 |v_n
5    ... ....                                   ...... ..
0
CIV WK PRO SV  FURN  EQUIP  TA  PHW C PRC C  FEE
Appraisal Estimate  12.4  1.3   0.9  13.6  5.3   3.3  10.7  0.6
Revised Estimate '84  20    4    0.9   9.1    4  1    1    0.6
Actual Costs    1.7    0     0    10.5  2.9    0      0    0.6
-   Appraisal Estimate     Revised Estimate 84
z             | _~~~~~~~ Actual Costs
There are significant variances in the estimated to actual foreign exchange
costs of the project. Although the actual foreign exchange is always
difficult to measure, Government data suggests that the original estimates
were more than 60X higher then the actual costs. Further study revealed
that the percentage of foreign exchange to local costs has been dropping
significantly in the construction industry where locally produced materials
and mechanical equipment have become increasingly available at competitive
prices. Likewise, the increasing availability of high quality, local
consultants has reduced the need for hiring foreign experts. The actual costs
for civil works seem quite low. These costs were provided and then reverified
by the ministries.



- 30 -
Armex 4
Government and IBRD Financing Share
US$ million                                 percent
140 - ______________________________
Agreement 81    4.             21263
Revised '84     40.6          49            89.6          45
Revised '89     40.6          39.4          80            55
Final Costs     27.8          29.3          57.1          47
-Agreement '81          *|' Revised '84
L~~~~~ L~- Revised '89                      Final Costs|
Comnment:
As the project estimates of cost were revised (1984 and 1989), the percentage
of IBRD participation increased from 33X at appraisal to about 47X at project
completion. As the percentages of disbursement were fixed by agreement, it is
interesting to note that the phenomena resulted from a situation where there
were high levels of expenditures in categories where the Bank financed a high
percentage of costs. Along with this situation, there were also lower
expenditures in categories where the Bank financed low percentages of the
cost.



