Document of
The World Bank                                          X
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3287-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 29, 1982
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00 = M$2.30
M$1.00   =  US$0.435
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
ILD     -  International Labor Organization
ITI     -  Industrial Training Institute
MARA    -  Majlis Amanah Rakayat (Council of Trust for
Indigenous People)
MOE     -  Ministry of Education
MOLM    -  Ministry of Labour and Manpower
MYCS    -  Ministry of Youth, Culture and Sports
NITTCB  -  National Industrial Trade Training and Certification Board
TAVED   -  Technical and Vocational Education Division (of MOE)
TSD     -  Training Service Division (of MOLM)
UNESCO  -  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYS IA
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Malaysia
*        Beneficiaries:        Ministry of Education, Ministry of Labor and Manpower
Amount:              US$40.6 million [including the capitalized front-end feel
Terms:                15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would assist the Borrower in the first phase of
a long-term industrial skill development program. The
program aims to increase the supply of technicians and
skilled workers, improve their quality and strengthen
management of relevant training programs. To help achieve
these objectives, the proposed project would provide civil
works, furniture, equipment, and technical assistance to:
(a) establish two polytechnics and three industrial
training institutes (ITIs); (b) prepare for future
establishment of three polytechnics and two institutes
(design and site works); (c) promote training in industry,
improve training programs/materials/staff, increase
resource utilization, and strengthen polytechnic and ITI
management; and (d) strengthen monitoring and review
activities for the project. Principal benefits from the
project would be an increase in the number of qualified
technicians and skilled workers and improvement in the
management of relevant training programs.
The project faces two risks. First, delays could occur
because of inadequate program management and limited
capacity of the construction industry. To reduce this
risk management would be strengthened and the project
would be implemented in phases. Consultant architects have
also been hired in lieu of the Public Works Department,
which was a source of delays in the past. A second risk
is that enrollment in the ITIs would accelerate slowly
because of the deficiency of their programs and the
resultant lack of interested trainees and employers.
Remedial measures include reduction in the length of the
institutional training period and improved expertise of
training officers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:/1  Components                               Local  Foreign  Total
---- ($ million) ----
Technician Training
Estab. of polytechnics                39.4    18.7    58.1
Curriculum and staff
development                          0.2      1.7      1.9
Management development                 0.1      0.4      0.5
Subtotal                            39.7    20.8    60.5
Skilled Worker Training
Establishment of ITIs                 14.4      9.4    23.8
Promotion of skill training
in industry                          -        0.4      0.4
Curriculum/materials/staff             -        0.4      0.4
Management development                 0.1      0.5      0.6
Subtotal                            14.5    10.7    25.2
Monitoring and Review
Strengthening of monitoring
and review                           -        0.1      0.1
Studies and Pilot Schemes
Future investments                     0.2      1.8      2.0
Base Cost                           54.4    33.4    87.8
Physical contingencies                 5.4      3.3      8.7
Price contingencies                   15.4    10.7    26.1
Total Project Cost                  75.2    47.4   122.6
Front-end fee on Bank loan               -        0.6      0.6
Total Financing Required            75.2    48.0   123.2
Local  Foreign  Total
Financing Plan:                                             ---- ($ million) ----
Government                    75.2      7.4    82.6
Bank                            -      40.6    40.6
Total                    75.2    48.0   123.2
/1 The project is tax exempt.



- iii -
Estimated                  Bank FY    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Disbursements:                       ------------- ($ million) -------------
Annual              1.6    2.2    4.8    9.2   12.0   11.0
Cumulative          1.6    3.8    8.6   17.6   29.6   40.6
Rate of Return:    17% for polytechnics
15% for institutes of industrial training
Staff Appraisal    No. 3740a-MA, dated April 15, 1982.
Report:
Maps:               IBRD No. 16187



t:



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR AN INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
v           loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$40.6 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Industrial Training Project.
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA) is dated October 14, 1977. In July 1980,
a book, written at the request of the government and entitled "Malaysia:
Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society" was published. This section
contains information gathered in recent updating missions; a new economic
report is under preparation.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance has
been outstanding.  The per capita income of US$1,670 in 1980 (World Bank
Atlas) is among the highest in Southeast Asia.  In the last decade, per capita
GDP growth has averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per
capita growth achieved in the sixties. This sustained good performance is a
reflection of several factors including the country's wealth in natural
resources especially ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; good economic and financial management; and, not least,
stable social and political institutions. Three specific elements have been
important: first, substantial attention and priority has been given to
agriculture resulting in high productivity gains in the sector, which have
cushioned against occassional steep price declines; second, manufacturing
growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a. in the last two decades, following
first an import substituting pattern, but later increasingly oriented towards
exports; third, in a very open economy with exports and imports averaging 49%
of GDP (1970-80), exports have diversified from an initial large dependence
on rubber and tin to include palm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income
between ethnic communities and has also been struggling with a serious
poverty problem. In 1970, about half the households in the country had
insufficient incomes to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter,
clothing and other basic needs.  This poverty has been concentrated among
agricultural families, which are predominantly Malay.  In 1971, the govern-
ment declared a New Economic Policy (NEP) and accorded the highest priority to
eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalance in income, employment



-2-
and the ownership of assets. More specifically it was targetted that by
1990 the incidence of poverty will be reduced to 16.7% of households, and
that the share of Bumiputeras /I in the ownership of the corporate sector
will increase from about 4% in 1970 to at least 30%.  These intentions serve
as the fundamental policy objectives of government. In the mid term of this
program, substantial progress has been made. By 1980, the incidence of
poverty had declined to 29% of all households and there were 125,000 fewer
poor households than in 1970. The Bumiputera share of corporate assets
increased from 4.3% in 1971 to an estimated 12.4% in 1980, whilst the
Chinese community achieved their target 40% share in 1980, some ten years
ahead of schedule. Over the same period, there were significant changes in
the distribution of employment in line with the restructuring objective that
employment in all sectors and at all levels reflects the racial composition
of the country.
5.        The government's overall strategy of pursuing high growth, along
with a series of direct interventions have been instrumental in this fast
pace of achievement of the NEP objectives. In particular over the last
decade, the rapid opening of income and employment opportunities in the
modern sector, where productivity and wages are much higher than in agri-
culture, successfully channelled the flows of labor market entrants into
positions where they did not become, or remain poor. Simultaneously, this
reduced the pressure of population on the agricultural base. Thus, only 14%
of the net addition to the labor force between 1970 and 1980 was accounted
for by new agricultural employment, in contrast to previous decade where 35%
of all new jobs were found in agriculture. At the same time, high labor
demand facilitated the penetration by Malays into occupations and sectors in
which they were previously under-represented, as well as fostered Malay
mobility into the more senior levels of occupations. In addition,
restructuring corporate asset ownership was made easier by the rapid
economy-wide growth, where redistribution could occur from the increments to
national wealth rather than from existing stocks. Direct interventions by
the government, however, also proved important in the progress toward
achieving the NEP objectives. These were particularly extensive in
agriculture, including new land development and farmer resettlement, major
irrigation schemes, technical and financial support for rubber replanting,
extension and marketing assistance, and selective subsidy programs. The
success of many of these programs is attested by the fact that smallholder
productivity over a range of products increased significantly during the
decade, with positive impact on farm income and reduction of poverty.
The government also directly intervened to achieve the asset redistribution
target.  Because the volume of Malay savings is relatively small, as may be
expected with lower average Malay incomes, substantial amounts of corporate
equities were purchased by the government to be held "in trust" for the
Bumiputera community. Recently a scheme has been developed to divest these
holdings by government to individual Malays.
/1 "Bumiputera" literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to
refer to Malays and other indigenous groups.



- 3 -
6.        Against this broad background of progress, the economy has been
undergoing some important structural changes. Industry has replaced
agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and manufactured exports have
replaced import substitution as the cutting edge of industrial growth. As
noted, the composition of exports has changed from a rather narrow to a much
more diversified set of commodities. This diversification has proved
important as two of Malaysia's major foreign exchange earners - timber and tin
show signs of flagging vitality. In the case of timber, exploitation of the
resource has led to detrimental environmental consequences and the government
has now established a Forest Conservation policy which will limit, in effect,
the quantum of exports. In the case of tin, increasing costs of extraction
and the exhaustion of many mines have resulted in declining export volumes.
But perhaps the most important ongoing change in the economy's structure is
the diminishing retention of labor in the rural areas, such that it is
expected that the agricultural labor force may soon peak before declining in
absolute numbers. Whilst plentiful evidence points to selective processes at
work fostering this outcome, the precise turning point is not easy to predict
as much depends on the rate of growth of and the pace at which labor can be
absorbed in the modern sector. Nonetheless, some of the symptoms of this
change including accelerating migration of the young and educated from the
farms to the towns, more visible "shortages" of semi-skilled agricultural
laborers and an increasing incidence of idle and abandoned land suggest that
future problems of agriculture and poverty in Malaysia may differ in important
respects from those of the past. The poverty problem is likely to be
increasingly characterized as one of aging, elderly farmers, unable to adjust
fully to loss of family labor, with consequent reduction in their farm output.
The great importance of agriculture to the Malaysian economy both in terms of
its contribution to GDP as well as its role as a major earner of foreign
exchange - makes it important to devise policies which maintain the agricul-
tural resource base, improve land/man ratios, augment agricultural labor
productivity and incomes, and improve, through social interventions, the
standard of living in the rural areas. Mindful of these challenges the
government is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of agricultural
strategy and policies, with the intention of announcing a National
Agricultural Policy later this year.
7.        Whilst, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occassional difficulty.
This is true of the very recent past where Malaysia has been particularly
affected by downturns in the prices of major export commodities. Between 1977
and 1980 prices for palm oil, rubber, timberand petroleum increased rapidly
and export receipts nearly doubled. The terms of trade improved by 15% in the
same period and real national income increased by more than 10% p.a. Since
1980, however, prices for rubber and tin have fallen rapidly, palm oil
and timber prices have not recovered to the high levels experienced in 1979
and, in part, due to the recession in the OECD countries, petroleum and
manufacturing export volumes have declined. Somewhat expansionary, contra-
cyclical, fiscal and monetary policies have been applied to cushion the impact
of terms of trade imposed losses in real income and to maintain the momentum



- 4 -
of growth. In combination, these elements have led to sharp deterioration
in the current account of the balance of payments from an average surplus of
about 2% of GNP in 1977-80 to a deficit of about 10% in 1981 and an expected
similar outcome in 1982. Gross external reserves declined from about 5
months import coverage in 1980 to 4 months at the end of 1981.  Inflation,
as measured by the Consumer Price Index, increased from an average of 4% in
1976-79 to about 10% in 1981.
8.         In the short run, Malaysia should not find it difficult to weather
external deficits of this magnitude. The country has rarely run large
balance of payments deficits with the result that its external indebtedness is
relatively low, and in recent years, the debt service ratio has averaged
about 5%. The country's creditworthiness ratings are, therefore, excellent.
Over the medium term, however, very large deficits will not prove sustain-
able. Some relief on the export side may, however, be expected. Recovery
from the international recession should improve major commodity prices and
restore some of the dynamism of Malaysia's manufacturing export growth;
additional foreign exchange will be earned as the country begins to export
LNG, starting in 1983. At the same time a more appropriate balance between
national expenditures and national income will need to be restored. The
"boom" years of 1977-80 substantially raised the investment ratio to GDP as
well as facilitated very high import growth.  Close surveillance over the
level and growth of public expenditures, of the efficiency of public
investment, and of the size and sources of financing for the public deficit
will need to be exercised. In the longer term, the economy will no longer
be able rely so heavily on the rapid growth of primary commodities. Whilst
Malaysia is rich in natural resources, which will provide a reliable base
for the expansion of the economy, the growth rates of the production of such
commodities as rubber, palm oil, petroleum and forest products are all
likely to be lower than in the past. With growth decelerating in the
resource sector, continued rapid industrial growth will increasingly become
essential to successful economic performance. This imperative arises not
only from the viewpoint of production, and the creation of real incomes but
also from the viewpoint of achieving the NEP targets. As the most obvious
areas of import substitution have been exhausted, sustained rapid growth in
manufacturing will have to rely increasingly on export expansion. Policies
will, therefore, have to ensure a favorable export environment. The
Government is presently undertaking a series of studies to serve as the
basis for the reformulation of industrial and export incentives.
9.         Assuming a sustained international economic recovery over the
medium term, continued expenditure restraint by the government, and an
improved incentive structure for exports, the current account deficit should,
relative to GNP, decline from 1983 onwards and achieve approximate balance
later in the decade. Under this scenario, Malaysia will continue to enjoy a
7-8% GDP growth over the next few years. The debt service ratio will
increase from its average 5% of exports in 1977-80 to 12% of exports in 1990.
At end-1980 about 16% of external debt outstanding and disbursed is from the
World Bank. These percentanges are expected to remain unchanged by 1990.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
10.       The Bank has made 52 loans to Malaysia, totalling $1,281.47
million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water
supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of March 31, 1982, the effective loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to $1,097.82 million. Twenty-three loans have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of projects under implementation.
11.       In view of Malaysia's proven capability to prepare and implement
traditional infrastructure projects independently, the Bank's present lend-
ing strategy in the country is to support the Government-s programs to
combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in
the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide
financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to develop an
institutional and policy framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to
design and implement antipoverty programs independently. With this in mind,
the Bank has proposed to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such
as the Agricultural Credit Bank (BPM), the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA), and area and state development agencies in
the poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their experience in the
designing of projects and serve as a basis for building managerial and
technical skills within these institutions. Technical assistance of this
nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be the most effective
way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian development at present.
12.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. Ten
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of
tree crops, national extension and research. At least 11 additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
next few years.
13.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more heavily
on technical and skill training. The proposed project would support the first
phase of the Government's program to increase the number of qualified tech-



- 6 -
nicians and skilled workers, by improving the efficiency of industrial skill
training and strengthening the management of the polytechnics and the
Industrial Training Institutes. The Bank is also seeking new initiatives in
providing support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in
promoting the growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the
Government to realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives.
Assistance to infrastructure in the future will be selective, concentrating on
providing access to rural areas and rural electrification.
14.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of March 31, 1982 amounted to $1.14
million (Annex II).
15.       Overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in Malaysia has
been satisfactory. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of cumulative
disbursements to cumulative commitments from FY75 to FY81 displays a pattern
of continuous improvement, although the ratio of commitments to disbursements
has remained unchanged. Overall disbursement performance of $94.3 million
in FY81 represented a 38% improvement over the FY80 figure of $68.1 million.
Based on actual disbursements for the first half of FY82 the outcome for
FY82 will probably be some $35 million above the FY81 level. Actual
disbursement by March 31, 1982, is $84.3 million against the revised FY82
estimate for the year of $164.1 million. The major problems causing
disbursement delays are: delays in project start-up due to manpower
shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures; and limited
capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting industry.
To improve the situation, the Bank carried out its first project
implementation review in collaboration with the implementing agencies in
November last year. Further reviews will be undertaken periodically with a
view to improving the overall implementation of projects, which should have
a positive impact on disbursements. It is also proposed to reinforce the
implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements for the
benefit of the implementing agencies.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL SKILL TRAINING
Industrial Development and Manpower Constraints
16.       The rapid growth of Malaysia's economy over the past ten years has
not been accompanied by a commensurate growth in the supply of skilled
industrial manpower. The present shortage of such manpower is reflected in
market conditions. In 1980 the Public Service Department could fill only 10%
of 2,500 reported vacancies for skilled workers and 40% of 970 vacancies for
technicians. The shortage of technicians is even more acute in the private



sector since about 70% of graduates have received government scholarships and
are bonded to three to five years public service after graduation. Due to
keen competition in industry, the highly skilled occupations carry pay scales
which are ten times higher than those for laborers, compared to a ratio of
less than 5 to 1 in advanced countries.
17.       To help achieve the goals of the New Economic Policy (i.e., reduce
absolute poverty and achieve a more representative racial balance in different
occupations), the Government intends to transfer more people from low
productivity rural occupations to higher income opportunities in the modern
sector. In this context, the secondary sector (i.e., manufacturing, con-
struction, utilities, transport, storage and communications) is expected to
grow rapidly, at about 10% p.a., as compared to about 8% p.a. for the economy
as a whole. Developing the skills of industrial workers plays an important
role in achieving these increases. Projections for the next decade indicate
that Malaysia would require an annual average increment of about 6,000 techni-
cians and 35,000 skilled workers. This requirement significantly exceeds the
present annual output of 1,700 technicians and 10,000 skilled workers, indi-
cating the need for rapid expansion of industrial skill training programs.
This need is supported by the favorable economic rates of return from invest-
ments in polytechnic education and apprenticeship training in Malaysia,
calculated to be at about 16% and 12%, respectively./l
Industrial Skill Training
18.       The sources of industrial skill training in Malaysia are:  (a) poly-
technics, which provide technician training; (b) industrial training institu-
tes, and skill training institutes and centers, which prepare school leavers
for industrial employment and upgrade skills of the employed; (c) vocational
secondary schools, which supply semi-skilled workers; and (d) industry, which
provides on-the-job training for its workers.
19.       Technician Training.  Of 1,700 technicians currently produced each
year, 40% come from two polytechnics run by the Ministry of Education (MOE)
and 13% from the semiprivate Tunku Abdul Rahman College. The remainder comes
from a number of smaller private institutions. Ungku Omar Polytechnic, (at
Ipoh) established in 1969, had 1,560 students enrolled in 1980 with an output
of 530. At Kuantan Polytechnic, which was established in 1977 and is still
under construction, 450 students are currently enrolled in temporary accomoda-
tions and the output in 1980 was 130. The polytechnics offer a 2-1/4 year
course of study for secondary school leavers, largely based on a sandwich
structure of one year of study, five months of industrial placement, and a
final nine months of study. Existing courses include various specializations
within mechanical, electrical and civil engineering and commerce. With a
total of 200 teaching staff, the polytechnics have a teacher to student ratio
of 1:11.
/1  These economic rates of return are referred to as the social rates of
return in the literature of education economics.



- 8 -
20.       Skilled Worker Training.  The annual output of skilled workers is
estimated at approximately 10,000, about 6,500 of whom are produced by the
following existing government training institutions: (a) two Industrial
Training Institutes (ITIs) run by the Ministry of Labor and Manpower (MOLM);
(b) eight Skill Training Institutes run by the Majlis Amanah Rakayat (Council
of Trust for Indigenous People - MARA); (c) one Skill Training Center run by
the Ministry of Youth, Culture and Sports (MYCS); and (d) 30 Vocational
Secondary Schools run by the MOE.
21.       The ITIs are located at Kuala Lumpur and Prai and in 1980 had a
combined enrollment of 1,540 and output of 1,060 graduates. They offer five
types of courses: four-year apprenticeship training under the National
Apprenticeship Scheme, which includes 55 weeks of course work at the Institu-
tes (22 weeks in the first year and 11 weeks in each of the subsequent three
years) and the remainder of the time training on the job in industry
(130 apprentices completed in 1980); (b) six-month preparatory trade courses
followed by a six-month industrial placement, provided to unemployed school
leavers (500 trained in 1980); (c) part-time skill upgrading for industrial
workers as requested by employers (320 trained in 1980); (d) a 90-hour,
part-time course in instructional techniques for trainers within industry
(100 trained in 1980); and (e) a two-month instructor training program to meet
the staff needs of the ITIs (71 trained to date).
22.       The eight Skill Training Institutes are exclusively for bumiputras.
Most of the courses they offer are for two years, including six months spent
in industry. The MYCS Skill Training Center provides industrial skill
training to out-of-school youths. In addition, the vocational secondary
schools conduct two-year training courses leading to the Malaysian Certificate
of Vocational Education.
23.       The National Industrial Training and Trade Certification Board
(NITTCB) established in 1971 holds primary responsibility for overall
coordination of skilled worker training in Malaysia. It is chaired by the
Secretary General of the MOLM and includes representatives from employers'
and employees' organizations, the MOLM, MOE, the MYCS, and the MARA.  The
NITTCB has the following functions: (a) to assess the need for skilled
industrial manpower; (b) to recommend the establishment of new training
programs; (c) to review and, if needed, modify existing programs; (d) to
develop national trade standards; and (e) to implement a national program of
trade skill testing and certification.
24.       Expenditures.  Funds allocated by the MOE to technical and
vocational education grew from M$11.6 million to M$26.8 million between 1975
and 1979 (33% p.a. on average), while in the same period, the total
education and training budget grew from M$1,340 million to M$2,393 million
(20% p.a. average). Despite this relative increase in technical and
vocational education under the MOE, the percentage allocation of the
Government's education budget to the subsector remains low at 1.1% (up from



- 9 -
0.9% in 1975). Even with the inclusion of relevant expenditures by the
MOLM, MARA and MYCS, the 2% allocation of the total education and training
budget to technical and vocational education is much lower than other
countries in the region (e.g., 7% for Korea and 6% for Thailand).
Issues in Industrial Skill Training
25.       The main problems facing Malaysia in meeting the needs for
technicians and skilled workers are the low level of output, inadequate
quality, and inefficient use of resources, compounded by weakness in
management.
26.       Technician Training
(a)  Low Level of Output.  The total output of technicians is only one
fourth of the estimated average annual requirement for the next
decade. Even with optimum use of specialist facilities, there
would still be a shortage of about two thirds in training
capacity.
(b)  Narrow Curriculum.  The curriculum in the polytechnics has not
been sufficiently flexible to meet the changing needs of industry,
particularly in areas of importance to Malaysia's growth
industries (e.g., natural resource processing and computer and
plant technology). This is largely due to the limited capacity of
the MOE's Technical and Vocational Education Division (TAVED) to
develop the curriculum.
(c)  Use of Resources.  Failure to plan the maximum efficiency in use
of physical resources contributed to the existing polytechnics'
high capital cost. The 35% utilization of laboratories and
workshops is due partly to single-stream enrollments in courses
where double-streaming would be possible and to duplication of
specializations with small enrollments at the polytechnics. Also
a series of separate small workshops for each aspect of a
specialization were provided in the past, instead of multipurpose
spaces equipped for a wider range of related practical activities.
(d)  Management.  No formal arrangements have been set up between the
two existing polytechnics and TAVED to ensure academic standards
and efficiency. Responsibilities for such functions as student
admission, course development and use of resources are left to
individual institutions and often to their departments and staff.
27.       Skilled Worker Training
(a)  Low Level of Output.  The present annual output of skilled workers
is less than one third of the projected average annual requirement
for 1981-90. Even with optimum use of specialist accommodation,



- 10 -
the shortage would be greater than 50%. To date, industry has
played a minimal role in worker training, due both to the lack of
financial incentives to upgrade their work force and appropriate
training programs and staff.
(b) Quality of Output. In 1980, only 62% of ITI students passed the
NITTCB tests in basic and intermediate level skills, largely due
to inadequate course design and instruction. The 50:50 mix of
theory and practice in the courses does not give students
sufficient practical expertise and too much emphasis is placed on
outmoded subjects. The quality of instruction suffers from the
teaching staff's general lack of industrial experience and
refresher training in teaching methods.
(c) Use of Resources. The erratic demands made on the ITIs by
variable enrollments at different times of the year has resulted
in effective teacher to student ratios of only 1:4 at Kuala Lumpur
and 1:3 in Prai, and in a utilization rate of specialized accommo-
dations as low as 20%. In addition to poor class scheduling, the
nature of the apprenticeship training (para. 21) has contributed
to this inefficiency. Experience from the MARA Skill Training
Institutes has shown that a pass rate of 65% for their students on
the NITTCB intermediate skill tests can be achieved after only two
years, some 18 months of which is spent in a MARA institution. A
consolidation of the institutional training period is expected to
increase employer support for the apprenticeship scheme.
(d) Management. At the institutional level, the effectiveness of ITI
senior staff is hampered by their limited management and industrial
experience. At the central level, the Training Service Division of
the MOLM's Manpower Department lacks adequate staff and a relevant
organizational structure to operate effectively the expanding ITI
system.
Government Objectives, Strategy and Programs
28.       The Government aims to increase the supply of skilled industrial
manpower through expansion and improvement of industrial skill training.
To accomplish this aim, the Government plans to.  (a) increase the number of
public training institutions; and (b) stimulate industry to participate more
in training.
29.       An important component of this strategy is the improvement and
expansion of the network of polytechnics and ITIs. The number of
polytechnics will be increased from two to seven, increasing output from 650
in 1980 to 4,050 by 1990. Two of the five new polytechnics will be built at
Batu Pahat and Gombak and the three others will be built later at Alor
Setar, Kota Bharu and Kuching.  Classes are expected to start in temporary



- 11 -
accommodations before the new buildings are completed. The sites are
located in areas where industrial growth is expected to accelerate in
accordance with the Government's strategy of regional dispersion of
industrial development. All sites have been chosen and are at various
stages of acquisition and preparation, with Batu Pahat and Gombak the most
advanced. The Government has prepared a staff development plan which
provides for scholarships to train an additional 460 staff by 1990.
30.       The Government has a long-term program to establish at least one
ITI in each of Malaysia's 14 states.  There are two in existence and three
more already under construction. Five more ITIs are planned to be built at
Alor Setar, Ipoh, Kota Bharu, Kuantan and Malacca. Output will increase
from 1,050 in 1980 to 7,200 in 1990. The choice of location for the five
planned new ITIs has been governed by considerations similar to the siting
of the new polytechnics. All five sites have been selected and are at
different stages of readiness, with those at Ipoh, Kuantan and Malacca the
most advanced. The Government plans to train about 210 teaching staff for
the new ITIs at the existing ITI at Kuala Lumpur before 1985.
External Assistance
31.       Bilateral and Multilateral Assistance,  The first ITI at Kuala
Lumpur was established with ILO (International Labor Organization)
assistance in 1964 and the second ITI at Prai was set up with German
bilateral assistance in 1973. During the Fourth Plan period, an advanced
skill training center for industrial supervisors and instructors, with a
total project cost of US$23 million, will be set up at Shah Alam with
Japanese bilateral assistance. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) will assist
in the establishment of nine vocational secondary schools, one of which will
include an equipment repair center, with a total project cost estimated at
US$80 million.
32.       World Bank Assistance.  Since 1969, the Bank has helped finance
five education projects in Malaysia. They are helping to improve access and
quality in basic education, and meet manpower needs for middle-level tech-
nical and agricultural workers and for public administrators. The lending
program in this sector to date totals US$116.8 million. In view of Malaysia's
development strategy, which emphasizes industrial growth, and the magnitude of
its industrial skill development problems, the Bank is expected to continue
its support to vocational training and technical education; all five education
projects in Malaysia include the components to support such training and
education. The proposed project also reflects the Government's view that
industrial skill development is a key factor in its development strategy.
33.       To date, two Bank projects have been completed and a project
performance audit report on the first project (Report No, 2520, dated May
22, 1979, SecM79-408) has been prepared. A completion report on the second
is being audited. The audit report states that the project has been



- 12 -
successfully implemented overall. However, it finds that inadequate
authority and staffing of the MOE's Development and Supplies Division
charged with implementing the project, together with staff shortages in the
Public Works Department, were mainly responsible for implementation delays
of about 2.5 years. Subsequent to the first project, an increased number of
staff have been assigned to project implementation. The authority of the
MOE's project director has also been increased. To cope with the limited
capacity of the Public Works Department, the Government has used private
consultants in recent education projects. In respect to operational
outcomes, the audit report notes that agricultural schools are underenrolled
due to a lack of government scholarships to sponsor students; technical
secondary schools have a limited practical subject content; and timely
review of the appropriateness of project components and implementation
procedures would have avoided the faults (e.g. workshop layouts) and delays
(e.g. procurement matters). Addressing these problems, the Government has
(a) increased the number of scholarships and agricultural schools are now
satisfactorily utilized; and (b) decided to phase out technical secondary
schools. Further strengthening of project implementation staff and use of
private consultants for architectural and engineering works have been
included in the proposed project. The needs for these are confirmed in the
completion report on the second project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with ILO
assistance. It was appraised in August 1981 and post-appraised in January
1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 5 to April 6, 1982.
The Malaysian delegation was led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob, Deputy Secretary
Finance Division, Treasury. Supplementary data are in Annex III. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3740a-MA, dated April 15, 1982) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.
Objectives and Scope
35.       The proposed project would support the first phase of the Govern-
ment's investment program to increase the number and quality of skilled
industrial workers.  It is designed to help overcome the existing problems in
technician and skilled worker training. The project would provide civil
works, furniture, equipment, and technical assistance to: (a) establish two
polytechnics and three industrial training institutes; (b) prepare for future
establishment of three polytechnics and two industrial training institutes;
(c) promote skill training in industry; (d) improve training programs,
materials and staff; (e) increase efficiency and management capacity of the
polytechnics and industrial training institutes; (f) strengthen project
monitoring and review activities; and (g) prepare for studies and implement
pilot schemes for industrial training.



- 13 -
Technician Training
36.       Establishment of Polytechnics.  To increase the supply of techni-
cians, the project would establish two polytechnics at Batu Pahat and Gombak
(para. 29). The project would also assist in the preparatory work (design
and site works) for three additional polytechnics at Alor Setar, Kota Bharu
and Kuching. Each polytechnic would be designed for an annual intake of 600
students in certificate courses of 2-1/4 years' duration, including six
months of related training in industry. For these two polytechnics, the
project would finance site works; professional services; academic and
communal buildings, furniture and equipment; and student hostels and staff
housing.
37.       Curriculum and Staff Development.  In order to improve the quality
of polytechnic graduates, the project would assist in development of courses
in new subject areas and specializations in response to national and
regional needs. The project would finance: (a) 40 man-months of specialists
to help finalize physical and staff resource needs for the new courses to
be established in the first two polytechnics, and identify and plan the
outline of new courses for the three polytechnics to be developed later; and
(b) 27 man-months of specialists to help instructors in the initial
implementation of new specializations.
38.       To complement the government scholarship program to develop the
460 teaching staff required for the five new polytechnics (para. 29), the
project would include 1,040 man-months of overseas fellowships of 6-12 months
duration in: (a) specialized subject study or reorientation, particularly in
practical work; (b) teaching methods and practice under supervision; (c)
preparation of teaching materials related to the technician courses; and (d)
industrial experience. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the
scholarship program to train about 460 instructors would be carried out in
accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank (Section 3.07, draft Loan
Agreement).
39.       Improvement in Facility Utilization.  The project would seek to
optimize utilization of specialized facilities in the proposed polytechnics
through: (a) designing large multipurpose workshops equipped for a range of
related practical activities; and (b) encouraging the concentration of
specialized courses in selected polytechnics with two or three stream
intakes. These improvements are expected to reduce capital cost per student
place by about one quarter, from US$13,000 to US$10,000. The utilization rate
for specialized accommodation, which is about 45% of teaching accommodation,
would almost double from 35% to 68%. Both the revised cost and utilization
rate are considered reasonable.
40.       Development of Management Capacity.  To cope with the management
of an increasing number of polytechnics, the project would assist in the
establishment of an organization and management system through (a) the
development of an appropriate structure for the internal management of the



-14 -
polytechnics; (b) the development of an effective management system in the
MOE, in particular TAVED; and (c) a training program for the senior manage-
ment staff of the polytechnics and of the MOE. The project would finance 16
man-months of specialists to assist in setting up the management system and
related in-service training, and a total of 164 man-months of 3 to 6 months
of overseas fellowships to the senior staff in TAVED and the polytechnics.
Understandings were reached with the Government that the principals and key
department heads for the two polytechnics would be appointed well in advance
of the completion of new buildings, by December 31, 1983 for the first and by
December 31, 1984 for the second.
Skilled Worker Training
41.       Establishment of Industrial Training Institutes.  To increase the
number of skilled workers, the project would establish three new ITIs at
Ipoh, Kuantan and Malacca. The project would also support preparation
(e.g., site works, designs) for two additional ITIs to be built at Alor
Setar and Kota Bharu at a later stage. The ITIs would have a training
capacity, on a two-shift basis, of 360 to 480. Each institute would have
three departments - mechanical, electrical and construction. When fully
operational, the three ITIs would produce approximately 2,000 skilled
workers p.a.
42.       Promotion of Skill Training in Industry.  The project would also
promote skill training in industry by increasing the number of
qualified training officers and conducting a study on incentive schemes.
The Training Service Division (TSD) of MOLM's Manpower Department expects to
increase the number of training officers attached to it from the present 14
to about 43 by 1987. As part of the project these officers would receive
training to improve their effectiveness. The project would include 36
man-months of specialists to work with training officers in industry in
Malaysia, and 48 man-months of overseas fellowships for the training
officers to work with the same specialists in their countries.
43.       To further encourage on-the-job training by industry, the project
would finance six man-months of specialist services to conduct a study of
incentive schemes. The study would evaluate the government incentive scheme
recently introduced to promote training of construction workers by contrac-
tors, and recommend ways of extending such a scheme to training of craftsmen
and technicians, not only in construction, but also in manufacturing
industries.
44.       Curriculum, Materials and Staff Development.  In order to raise
the quality of the training at the ITIs, the project would assist in
improving course content, teaching materials, and instructors. The project
would provide six man-months of specialist services to assist the TSD in
course improvement and in introduction of revised courses. In addition, the
project would finance 18 man-months of fellowships and 18 man-months of
specialist services to assist the TSD in the development of training



- 15 -
materials, visual aids, documentation and progress training in order to
complement revised courses. The qualifications of teachers would be
upgraded through provision of 150 overseas fellowships of about six months
duration. This would augment the local training program for about 210 new
instructors (para. 30). Assurances were obtained from the Government that
the scholarship program to train about 210 instructors would be carried out
in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank (Section 3.08, draft Loan
Agreement).
45.       Improvement in Facility and Staff Use.  The proposed project would
raise the utilization rates of ITI facilities and staff by shortening the
institutional training component of apprenticeship training from over four
years to three years. Achievement of intermediate skills in shorter time
should make the scheme more attractive to employers and young people and
facilitate recruitment of apprenticeship trainees. Recruitment would also
be improved through the training officers' increased promotional activities.
These measures would be expected to increase utilization of ITI workshop
facilities and achieve a satisfactory teacher to student ratio of 1:10.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that they would introduce a
consolidated institutional training program to all ITIs, beginning July 1,
1983 (Section 3.09, draft Loan Agreement).
46.       Development of Management Capacity.  The project would improve the
management capacity of the ITI system at the institutional and central
levels. At the ITI level, the project would provide 105 man-months of
fellowships for the principals, the deputy principals and senior instructors
of all ITIs. These staff would receive 3-6 months training in curriculum
and staff development, evaluation of training, facility development and
utilization, and relations with industry.
47.       The project would also assist in reorganizing and expanding the
staff of the TSD which currently consists of the Technical Support Unit,
Industrial Training Development Unit, Instructor Training Unit and Adminis-
tration Unit. An operational unit responsible for managing ITIs through
development of procedures and systems would be created, while the Instructor
Training Unit would be absorbed into a Center for Instructor and Advanced
Skill Training being established under the director's office of the TSD.
The total technical staff of the Division is expected to increase from 18 to
nearly 70 by 1987. To develop a new training operation unit, the project
would provide 36 man-months of specialist services and 30 man-months of
fellowships. Understandings were reached with the Government on the
organizational structure and staffing of the TSD, and a schedule to
implement the expansion.
Monitoring and Review
48.       Project monitoring and review by both development units in the MOE
and MOLM would be improved and staff strengthened for the analysis of data
on project implementation and on the operational impact on external and



- 16 -
internal efficiency, and management. They would be assessed twice a year at
meetings of a committee comprising the relevant parties.  The project would
finance 9 man-months of overseas fellowships in monitoring and evaluation
techniques for staff for the units.
Studies and Pilot Schemes
49.       In addition to direct government-financed training programs and
institutes, it will be necessary for industry itself to undertake some of
the training work required to develop a skilled work force to meet national
labor requirements in the next decade. Since on-the-job training efforts
have not been commonly used in the past, it is proposed to include funds in
this project for the preparation of innovative short-term training schemes,
which would incorporate the results of the incentive scheme study (para. 43).
If these experimental pilot efforts should prove successful, the Government
could promote their wider applications in a variety of industrial activities
throughout the country. A total of about US$2 million is provided for pilot
schemes and related industrial training studies.
Project Management and Implementation
50.       The project would be implemented by existing organizational units
in the MOE and the MOLM.  The MOE would be responsible for implementation of
the polytechnic component. Specifically, the Development and Supplies
Division would be responsible for: (a) procurement activities; (b) review of
designs and supervision of construction; (c) administration of technical
assistance contracts; and (d) claiming of disbursements from the Bank and
maintenance of liaison with the Bank and on behalf of the polytechnics.  The
division is generally adequately staffed. TAVED would assist the Develop-
ment and Supplies Division in: (a) development of teaching programs and
courses; (b) preparation of accommodation schedules, equipment lists, and
staff development programs; and (c) technical review of equipment contract
awards. The strengthening of TAVED under the project (para. 40) should
enable it to efficiently perform these implementation tasks.
51.       The Development Unit under the MOLM's Manpower Department would
implement the industrial training institute components of the proposed
project.  This Unit has been in charge of implementing three new and two
expanded ITIs, assisted under Loan 1329-MA. To prevent recurrence of
earlier delays the staffing of the unit is being strengthened. Assurances
were obtained from the Government that staff would be appointed as needed
to carry out the project (Section 3.10, draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Staff shortages in the Public Works Department have been a common
cause of delays in earlier projects. To avoid repetition of this problem,
the Government has recruited suitable local consultants for survey, design
and supervision of construction (Section 3.03, draft Loan Agreement).



53.       The project is in an advanced state of preparation: sites have
been acquired for two ITIs and two polytechnics to be constructed as part of
the project. Final acquisition of the third ITI site, at Ipoh, is expected
by July 1982; an academic development plan for polytechnics has been
prepared and reviewed with the Bank; detailed staff development programs
have been formulated and agreed with the Bank; and job descriptions for new
jobs to be created under the project and terms of reference for specialists
have been prepared and reviewed; consultant architects and engineers have
been appointed and sketch designs completed and reviewed. Bids for site
works were invited in April 1982.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total cost of the proposed projects is estimated at
US$122.6 million equivalent; the project is exempted from taxes and duties.
Construction costs were based on April 1982 unit prices of recently
constructed, comparable buildings. Technical assistance costs (about 7% of
project total) are estimated at an average of US$7,500 per man-month for
specialist services and US$1,800 per man-month of fellowship training. The
man-month costs for specialists include housing and other benefits as well
as recruitment and relocation costs. A physical contingency of 10% (U$8.7
million) was added to the cost of all project items. The price contingency
allowance (US$26.1 million) amounts to about 27% of the base cost plus
physical contingencies. The following escalation rates were used for both
the foreign exchange and local cost components: 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in
1983-85, and 6.0% in 1986-88. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange
component is US$47.4 million, or about 39% of total project costs. The
proposed Bank loan (including US$0.6 million capitalized front-end fee)
would amount to US$40.6 million. Since the Government would finance the
total cost of hostels and staff housing, the Bank would finance 85% of the
foreign exchange component of the project. The remaining 15% of foreign
costs and all local costs would be financed by the Government. In order to
advance project preparation and implementation, retroactive financing of up
to US$2.0 million is recommended to cover the cost of professional services
and site works incurred prior to loan signing but after January 1, 1982.
55.       Annual incremental recurrent cost due to the proposed project is
estimated at about US$3 million equivalent (in 1981 prices) for the
technician training component and about US$2 million equivalent (in 1981
prices) for the skilled worker training component. Each student at
polytechnics pays tuition of M$450 p.a. But about two thirds of them
receive scholarships. Training at ITIs is free of tuition fees. The costs
of technician and skilled worker training under the proposed project would
account for 0.2% of the MOE budget and 6.0% of the MOLM budget in 1987,
assuming the budgets of these ministries would grow at an annual rate of 10%
in real terms. No effort was made to solicit funds for this project from
private industry because Government is encouraging private companies to
undertake independent training schemes.



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Contracts for civil works aggregating about US$55 million or 75%
of total value of civil works and equipment valued at about US$15 million
would be grouped to the maximum extent possible and awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
Other contracts would be awarded as follows: (a) about US$15 million of
civil works contracts costing less than US$2.5 milion each, mostly for site
works in scattered locations that are unlikely to interest foreign bidders,
would be awarded on the basis of locally advertised bidding in which foreign                 a
firms would be allowed to participate; (b) about US$5 million of equipment
bid packages estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent each, which
are not expected to interest foreign suppliers because of the variety of
the contents of each contract, would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with government procurement
practices which are acceptable to the Bank; (c) sundry items not exceeding
US$25,000 in each contract and aggregating a maximum of US$2.0 million
equivalent which could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three
quotations or on the basis of Treasury contracts for bulk procurement; and
(d) furniture and books which would be purchased in accordance with normal
government procedures. In bid comparison of equipment procured through
international competitive bidding, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
preferential margin of 15%, or the existing customs duty, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports. Employment of
consulting firms and individual consultants would be in accordance with Bank
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
57.       The proposed loan of US$40.6 million equivalent would be disbursed
on the basis of: (a) 25% of the total cost of civil works, excluding
construction of hostels and staff housing; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of directly imported equipment, vehicles and educational materials;
(c) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items; (d) 40% of
the cost of locally procured items; (e) 40% of the cost of professional ser-
vices; and (f) 100% of the cost of specialists' services and fellowships.
The disbursement schedule is based on the disbursement profile of Bank-
assisted education projects in the region and the performance of earlier
education projects in Malaysia. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1988.
Accounts and Audits
58.       The MOE and MOLM would establish and maintain project-related
accounts at the Development and Supplies Division and at the Development
Unit, respectively, which would be responsible for the coordination of pro-
ject implementation. These accounts would be operational from the start of
project implementation. Accounts would be maintained in accordance with
sound and generally recognized accounting principles and practices satis-
factory to the Bank. The above two units would submit to the Bank annual
financial statements reflecting the financial performance and position of
the project. Such financial statements would be the basis of annual auditing
of expenditures by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Annual



- 19 -
audits would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year of the Government to provide adequate and timely information of
the supervision of loan disbursements and of the project in general.
Benefits and Risks
59.       Benefits.  The three principal benefits from the proposed project
would be: (a) increased number of qualified technicians and skilled workers;
(b) increased internal efficiency of industrial skill training; and (c)
strengthened management of the polytechnics and ITIs. In addition, the
proposed project would lay the groundwork for further increases in output
under a second phase of the industrial skill development program. The
increased internal efficiency and management capacity resulting from the
proposed project would also benefit a second phase project.
60.       The annual output of 1,200 technicians from the two new polytech-
nics would meet about 20% of the projected average annual requirement for
1981-90. With this increment, the annual output from the whole polytechnic
system would rise to 4,600, or 75% of annual needs. The three new ITIs
would train 2,000 students p.a., or about 20% of the estimated average
annual requirement for skilled industrial labor over the 1981-90 period.
The output of the whole ITI system would then rise to 7,200 p.a., or 70% of
annual needs. Improvements in resource utilization at both the polytechnics
and ITIs would reduce unit capital costs by 25% and 13%, respectively, as
compared to the costs originally estimated by the Government. As a result,
the economic rate of return from investments in polytechnic development would
be 17%. The economic rate of return from project investments in ITIs would
be 15%. These returns are slightly higher than the rates of return from the
existing polytechnics and ITIs.
Risks
61.       There are two important risks inherent in the proposed project.
The first is that project implementation might not proceed on schedule due
to inadequate management and the construction industry-s limited capacity;
this has proved to be a major issue in polytechnic and ITI development
programs in the past. To help reduce this risk, the Government-s industrial
skill training program would be developed in two phases over a seven-year
period instead of the five-year period as originally proposed by the
Government, the proposed project constituting the first phase. In addition,
the Government has employed consultant architects for the proposed project
to avoid relying on the Public Works Department. A second risk involves the
possibility of continued underenrollment at the ITIs due to the lack of
interested trainees and employers. In addition to overall improvement of
the curricula, the project includes two specific measures to avoid this: (a)
shortening the apprenticeship training period under the National Apprentice-
ship Scheme from four to three years; and (b) increasing the number of
qualified MOLM training officers. The change in the duration of the
apprenticeship training program should make it more attractive to employers
and trainees.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 29, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KALAYSLA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEEGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             329.8                        -          MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       65.1                1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    250.0        470.0    1370.0                  1136.1                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPIION PER CAPITA
(KILoGRAMS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)       252.8         518.0      767.2                1150.6                    1324.1
POPULATlON AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8028.0         10729.0   13137.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT oF TOTAL) 25.2            27.0       29.1                  40.8                       64.2
PUPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           19.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            30.0
YEAR STATIONARY PVPULATION IS REACHED                     2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          24.3         32.5      39.8                  373.1                       34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    150.6           183.7     197.4                 2382.8                      94.5
POPULATION AGE SIRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                            45.2         45.4      41.5                   39.8                       40.7
15-64 YRS.                           S1.2          31.5      55.1                   56.7                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.6          3.1        3.4                    3.5                       4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.5          2.9        2.2                    2.3                       2.4
URBAN                                 4.6          3.6        3.1                    3.8                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        39.1         32.6       28.3                  29.7                       31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         9.1          6.8        5.7                    7.5                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..           ..        1.8                    1.9                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (rHousANDs)          ..         56.0       80.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WoMEN)    .:             7.0      36.0                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTLON
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.0          99.0      118.0                 123.7                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  - 105.0        113.0      117.0                  112.6                     107.6
PROTLINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            48.0          51.0       57.0                  62.5                      65.8
OF WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          16.0        18.0       22.0                   19.7                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        13.3          7.8        2.0                    4.8                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.3            59.5       68.2                  64.0                       64.1
INFANT MORTALITY BATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..         40.8       31.8                  50.2                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         29.0      62.0                   45.9                      65.7
URBAN                                  ..       100.0       93.0                   68.0                      79.7
RURAL                                  ..          2.7      49.0                   34.4                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXGRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         59.0      60.0                   53.4                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..        100.0      100.0                   71.0                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..         43.0       43.0                  42.4                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7467.97d    4527.074  8733.7/e                4428.7                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1776.0/c    1467.1kL  1288.881.le             2229.7                    1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              265.0Ld      320.87d   306.0                   588.5                     471.2
URBAN                                  ..        147.1/d      ..                  579.6                     558.0
RURAL                                  ..      2463.87         ..                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          17.9      17.2                  36.7
NUOSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
ToTAL                                 5.9          5.6         ..
URBAN                                 5.9          5.9         ..
RURAL                                  *-            5L        ...
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 3.0         2.6/d        .
URBAN                                 2.3          2.3Ld
RURAL                                  *-          2.8L        ..
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  *-        43.4          ..
URBAN                                82.9        84.7L         .*
RURAL                                  *-         30. 174



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                              Page  2  of  5
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYS IA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  96.0         91.0      94.0                    99.8                     101.7
MALE                 108.0         95.0       95.0                  100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                83.0         87.0       92.0                   98.8                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  19.0         35.0      48.0                    53.5                      35.3
MALE                  25.0         40.0       52.0                   58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                13.0         29.0      44.0                    48.6                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)   5.0            3.2        2.0                   21.1                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             28.0         32.0      31.0                    34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           38.0         26.0      27.0                    31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         53.0         55.0         ..                   86.5                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         22.2      39.1                    12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          37.7         40.1     119.4                   174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.2         12.1      53.0                    50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   61.0         73.0      149.3                  106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0            9.4        2.7                    4.3                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2745.3       3622.2    4573.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.0         31.4      31.3                    37.4                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               63.1         56.0      50.6                    50.2                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.7         14.0      15.8                    21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 34.2         33.8       34.8                   40.2                      31.8
MALE                                  48.8         45.7       47.3                   49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                18.9         21.5       22.0                   31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4        1.3                    1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         27.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         10.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URnAN                                 ..           ..     279.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     252.0                   193.7                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     313.0                      ..                    513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     283.0                   234.3                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      16.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      46.0                    32.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  Id Peninsular Malaysia;  /e Government personnel only.
May, 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
DFNT OpSO  SOCIal IsoICAyTRS                                                     Page    3   of    5
Notes:   lthcugh tha dt.     :dosn  fin    o .            ..erll  Jug.  the at-    uth-it-ine ad reiable  it .bul  as  be  cted  thatI they  ay non be O-te-
naioalyco             Iol  bec..s I f thelac   ofesdadsddebtbC.. and  -cccete use. b  dif.r.ttontte                          -1tos-icg the date.  The data Ire.
the1es.. use ful to d-etibe  -od-r  of agnitude.  indicate ltred., end                        --itertetttt  sajo  diff-t-t. betw...
The reeecegops e(1 Ih seencoutry grouP of the euhbect conyta    laconrgouwihoahehierargei stttecotrgop
LAIDdAd  (tousod  sla.                                                                       Pcolaicn Irtth.t a  fed- ttedturah,  rd  urf                 - -h irlo dtr-i
fntsl -Totel  utfeceersa ceprtein  lend   reah a  indg-d eser.ura,  ndtot)divddb  tdte   r                                          h.ctn   tuelbir ny hosptalhed
harioltual -tetlste  f egIcultura  area nee tel porerly.tor. fe-earsity                   sna-thtlebhl.. in.. gihli  ted- r.,yic  - enena i nd  -pcili    - boptl  n
Toal te  by same  nnrIcI  _etiod us fodtnI             Als(97-9has)   Nfnd...   ..ial ten    o  pereanantylyhi                                 .tffd  by   phsiia hutb
1971, end 1979 detn.                                                                   nad'Id  ,J-dcalseitvn    ies   idie  etc.))dl  Ibr   fe  inPaten    tr.
orftry)    P     ~ :to 'lgrs do cala ilAlen  perdcpita  19ff   9f.1and 1979 dsfrs                             prflsa    opoasar   ocoe  ol  udC  ttl
PitA IIP                                                                                                                      P,.bl h-.dp.-hitTISTIft
amegdour1979     91,  970  ad  97  ldae                                                         thlhuehldfr  ta_stra    uross
lee,t        dfel   iamaetnysahiiga  77.5 yers   PSi psJa                                         fenen total. dwhIag-   wihelctniy                 tagqatesa
ea ters fot feelsype  as   ew   hselvlssselgdIc noftnl,ubn,sdrua    eelos  epr iey
ferilty   rrrdlg  n  ome  10I1enhpat  amly  lawin    Irfoesre
dthehi,        raeh      -qa  t  h   en  rste  sad- also , the 0 age       197n9ur  rS-pnn                       Pia t o   llae  atsepimrteela              rntgst  es ht
aetimaad  ou  he hass of te prnjnced uerarisistirsof shepopuieiow;"   since smed pupils arId                 o   o   hv  th    fiil ho  ag. 
dinf.. th yea fihIP. atnt the rtet of drties of  fetility .. raenorpIn-inodr  sfcHon-htotl,l   sa   .al       opue   s  bv;serd
anIlve.                                                                                   dugItnreuiesa  las f'ryfrsofIprd                    e  pREmr   ttutin
year  ....oae t  rorus196  c is  eehe   Pbs year             bil ebsod sttinryppuato                 poIdes I gnrl-. voAtbIea,o             Iro     trinn    in itc  true for pupi
P s. .ise has-eewte.h..                                                                              ualy fhId t   7paso     e p.           ortssprden       Y rouse  or J.enoddll
PwlHlo  rest                                                                                         macladed.,I   IJ-t-.1     . d-90  .            b...d-1 Atg
trfl aea  19d6f,197  and 1979.C, dta.                                                              orlns  srttsl tIotral  o  oho   pogam  eio  oawteaIp=d
Per so. A. egriruloral lan    h- Copted as shov  for a     drculura   J.n                  Mnt-y or as  datetiso  esodryigitte
retly;t960 -19d71 te     i--I-d p97f dta.                                                       If It-Oaberrtio -                           _Pmat  a ...sordiy-yos   tudnt  pnrolled.i
th. MIhir  fotblteI-'et)-toa -th               os  Iwetwae  o   otlai-aspronel   f  otladl  pplsin  gd  5yer1sdovn
yer _oiasaa  o  190-0  16-7f, sad. 1917.dI   t."    .-                                                                                     U- tt1, 1  .df                ,
lesions for 1951 Ifl  19 thIso   9179                                                      asmerCr .1-tfear          ..I ihonaru   Pr llto)-Psegrieecmes   na
Ch,ltls  11f, 171 tend197  darIe.               '                                                eflitary,    -     Ief1-olse.C.
popheiun  160,19f,sod199 dte                                                        boadgee n  gntel  ubicIeethusad  f ppeetot;aulad..ti
her temed rsredenive perod if  he eapefeen.   prsnC    g-pofoPr                        sswsi  effead dane ff,t  _. forrna    er   a  wanll, he  oegarele  c
tIiyaa;uulyfv-yereegaInigi   9f,17.sd17.es    bOsmiie dj hibe                                                                             - 1icetatehig.                   1
PsalePlnuis    IersCornnt  f  ared  weaf- ProaJge  f  rredii oewll  arth -in y...rI rube  rsi_t                                        o   of            _det  was i  _tf
al    areJ     ea i   aeaegop tlwt   f'al  generalI in Irs   Ceep Ie",dtZ lea  asaP.uid
t~~ All 5f7T0111om                                                                       to ho "daily" if it appears at  ieaat Pent timesh      s meth.
-ia as  . caede. er  ot. Chd         iiacwrprmr   td   eg.   egecsesd   eid.  omit.1,_.
teaareteded)   AgrI   gis             q-..rie   of leach roecr  i  base.e...1g  fOlCyO-dt   ...l
-1iea   vretpodcrprciaihs  1f16)   91.ad999dos                                                  atl9bo   rce(bsaads       otoslyatvepwon,frlde
Pe            19Ia  s 0leo 1970dere 1ermta   aorsaa       ep Ite  free.. tiea    Idossdalya    o   nlfagheeie.stdns   u
eiy Ia eai   oeiet    a     aerts    eetr.-oymsgtChgilddty(miet)-lbo   ereI tsng   eatuetn    esfrtcn
1onti hl  level; 1970, 1-65 9d      ,s 11977dt   date.                                           1,971 and-..  1919. dat.I              4   b         C       t  h       't.
ma.It apya   ad   a   a._teapyrtfu  is _sfRICed am shoes,   a-                                     ativity. Cytm  ste rP-nte        -  i. .. trah  ale,t sad l feed   labo  faCe ent
allo.eamos51 ft gram   ef total  oetein pawDayad20g19t a.lea                          9f  1970, -4 gad 1979 date,         Pdbsen tira based em  Fie   srii   nrae
ISseld Psed taesy; 1951-65,  970 and 197bldth,                                      to the total-,-      C labo  forts,
ried'ta  9 an     70al  sa  1979a int. gyLlpw dy;191-5    910en  177  at._
trim   dat  driedfpamlie  sbta 190.190  ad199  at                                                 o  hnthods
hit      veg .      r    fpess  life raiingls  el                                                f aCae  en  ee   praet   eseae   str   ee
t in       11 9 sm                 aa      sea   eah   dleet            -res  eren   hed   he                      itretd ...wIthC        adrbetwg
sT    IImIl   itldstetdmafe.etr  rue enreate  hoeil                  ruw -nedmt-                 Bffardablia,         6h .,V     .PI         U    . mite-  aTen,               a 
,hten   llrb ,a abet  5ea.  presasa    beabeme Illeibge  dad          ...a mals  A5P les    Em 'la             "I povert  gtsh  evli  m ei-    faerg    eedpt
esmddee   s  a          itIfeeeMhe  nes  tteabwn,h ad                         arad                 Bteat.  .  dlimlysaif itl     Ib lta  Ilet   ae           -k4.91I
ramamabdamacam  manld APCy  the  the hea7sseiOe s- fd r If   the hesebel                         A_vws-I Aset a atI  C.eearm it.               enl  h   eeea
"e-hr   asedadherpttaa paeadte                 da in dffabi       d th                  pte5-.   1  d               yb
yea.  a.reaB,awa         te-dti e-time -                                                                                                  Jmi. aeb.  teral 
If dpegl lIte .   drib.   .dstead) sedeed .by .a -S.m_.lI,m-at.S
...ust~  efS thi  fApe-th. P-d-tieegam a.   C-eet  dgabp...d mayAlashed.
lea _It. ..a"J,I                                                            I                                                                           Ite  195
elqeelttlmd!reaa  madgual acheal at   ivereiay liea."..';                                               -l"b                  -    - i..C-.   l
Pewal. a    rg.  aem-  nmaiA    iie  bysmara    retn
a  tle    y egmsrems.peemlmrs.mdemnae inem1



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980:                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(Z in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln      %         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979  1980
GNP at Market Prices            22,461    100.0          6.4       7.8     7.6   6.2   9.2   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment        6,690      29.8         6.7       9.6    20.8   7.5  11.1  18.2
Gross National Saving            6,443      28.7               .        .       .     .         .
Exports of Goods, NFS           13,996      62.3         6.0       8.0     4.5   7.4  14.0   3.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           13,295      59.2         2.9       7.3    15.1  12.4  20.0  16.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 /a
-Output             Employment        Output Per Worker
US$ Mln                 ml _                US$          Z
Agriculture               2,792     24.6         2.1    41.2         1,351       60.5
Industry                 3,657      32.2         1.2    23.5         3,035      136.0
Services                 4,920      43.2         1.8    35.3         2,701     121.0
Total/Average       11,369    100.0          5.1   100.0        2,232      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                       Z of GDP
1980          1980         1971-75         1976-80
Current Receipts                  16,371         31.9           24.0             29.1
Current Expenditures              15,615         30.4           22.5            26.4
Public Authorities Surplus           291          0.6            0.8              1.0
Current Surplus                    1,047          2.0            2.3              3.7
Development Expenditures           9,596         18.7           10.8             14.2
Foreign Borrowing (net)            1,590          3.1            2.3              2.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES         1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976   1977    1978    1979    1980
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money           4,124  4,668  5,762  7,552  8,714  9,982  12,748  14,819  17,467  21,663  27,648
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                          957  1,174  1,357  1,652  1,999  2,600   3,321   4,006   3,765   4,585   5,646
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                        2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278  6,077   7,511   9,008  11,844  15,311  20,823
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                    33.9   36.0   40.5   40.3   38.1   44.7    45.4    45.8    48.2    49.0    53.8
Consumer Price Index
(1967 - 100)                  101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8  144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3   180.1
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index              1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4    4.5        2.6      4.8      4.9     3.6      7.0
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                         -8.4   22.7   15.6   21.7   21.0   30.1    27.7    20.6    -6.0    21.8    23.1
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                         21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1   15.1    23.6    19.9    31.5    29.3    36.0
/a In 1970 prices.
. not applicable
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



-25 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1978   1979   1980    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-80)
(US$ million)                   (US$ Million)
Exports f.o.b.                  7,658 10,948  12,819   Rubber                       1,924    18.3
Imports f.o.b.                  6,035  7,902  10,699   Timber                       1,626    15.4
Nonfactor Services (net)         -784 -1,021  -1,397   Petroleum                    1,994    18.9
Resource Gap (deficit)            839  2,025       723   Tin                        1,037      9.8
Factor Services (net)            -730   -759    -911   Palm Oil                     1,052    10.0
Net Transfers                     -37    -54      -56   All Other Commodities    2,899    27.5
Balance on Current Account        144  1,212    -244
Total               10,532   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         490    668      910
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                 1,473  1,334   1,038   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Amortization                    858    587      398
Subtotal                        615    747      640                                     US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i.               -502    469  -1,322   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   4,696
Increase in Reserves (-)         -459   -672    -472   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   4,696
International Reserves          3,243  3,915   4,387
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                         665    942   1,504
Exports                       1,060  1,981   3,111   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          2.3
Of which:  Crude Petro-                             Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum          1,017  1,922   3,022   Total Outstanding & Disbursed          2.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed            587.39
1971              3.05           0.33               Undisbursed                         510.43
1972              2.82           0.35               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,097.82
1973              2.44           0.41
1974              2.41           0.41
1975              2.40           0.42
1976              2.54           0.39
1977              2.46           0.41
1978              2.32           0.43
1979              2.19           0.46
1980              2.22           0.45
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1982)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower           Purpose                        Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-three loans fully disbursed                                454.97
880     1973   Malaysia           Population                      5.00       0.22
931     1973   Malaysia           Highway (II)                   19.50       2.78
973     1974   Malaysia           Agricultural Development    45.00         19.27
974     1974   Malaysia           Education (III)                19.00       6.49
1044     1974   Malaysia           Land Settlement                36.00      10.44
1115     1975   Malaysia           Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50       4.33
1178      1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                    32.00       2.41
1213     1976   Malaysia           Sewerage                       21.50       8.55
1214     1976   Malaysia           Urban Transport (II)           26.00       7.28
1294     1976   Malaysia           Rural Development              21.00       7.54
1329      1976   Malaysia          Education (IV)                 35.00      18.79
1376     1977   Malaysia           Highway (III)                  35.00      13.67
1443     1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                   22.00       4.65
1444     1977   Malaysia           Irrigation                     39.00      24.13
1493     1978   Malaysia           National Extension             19.00      14.36
1522     1978   Malaysia           Agricultural Development    26.00         16.12
1580     1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                     13.00       4.15
1590     1978   Malaysia           Land Settlement                28.00      25.52
1608     1978   Malaysia           Population (II)                17.00      14.79
1618     1978   Malaysia           Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50         13.56
1632     1978   Malaysia           Agricultural Development    26.50         17.73
1657     1979   Malaysia           Education (V)                  38.00      27.39
1717     1979   Malaysia           Irrigation                     31.00      23.72
1808     1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX                       50.00      41.61
1899     1980   Malaysia           Agriculture Development        25.00      23.94
1900      1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Credit             30.00      30.00
1957     1981   Malaysia           Rompin-Endau                   40.00     40.00
Area Development
1960     1981   Malaysia           Trans-Perak
Area Development               50.00      50.00
2013      1981   Malaysia          Felcra                         37.00      37.00
Total loans (less cancellations)                     1,281.47
of which has been repaid                             180.53
Total now outstanding                                1,100.94
Amount sold                                 43.89
of which has been repaid                  40.77        3.12
Total loans now held by Bank                         1,097.82
Total undisbursed                                                 510.43



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1982)
*                                                     Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year                                        business        Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing        -     1.31       1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                     Cement          1.28     0.28       1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                 Steel           2.45      1.01      3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                 Steel              -      0.23      0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.         Textiles        1.25      0.25      1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing        -     0.63       0.63
Total gross commitment                                4.98     3.71       8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                   4.09      3.46      7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC                     0.89     0.25       1.14
Total undisbursed                                              ___       _



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 967 Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 31, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of clearance of about 33,600 ha of land and
planting of 26,200 ha of oil palm, construction of 5 palm oil mills, 8
villages, access roads, power and water facilities and settlement of about
7,000 families. The project is fully disbursed and the Project Completion
Report is being prepared. About 31,100 ha of oil palm have been planted
(118% of appraisal estimate) and 5,940 families have entered the schemes.
Major project works are nearing completion and project performance has been
generally satisfactory. Total project costs at $163 million exceed
appraisal estimates by 80%. However, the economic rate of return is
expected to be favorable because increase in commodity prices should more
than offset the increased costs.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 25,500 ha of land and
planting and maintenance of about 22,300 ha of oil palm; construction of
three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families. The project is progressing satisfactorily. About 21,000 ha
of oil palm or 95% of appraisal target had been planted by December 1981 and
the third and last palm oil mill financed under the project is expected to
be completed in September 1982. However, there is considerable delay in
settler entry due to delays in provision of water supply by the Public Works
Department (JKR). Disbursements are 70% of appraisal target.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen MARDI's research
programs and to establish an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of
Agriculture. The project was restructured in mid-1979 and the focus was
changed from commodity specific research to include all broad-based research
programs of the Research Institute. Subsequently, the loan was reduced from
US$28.5 million to US$20.5 million involving reductions in the use of consul-
tants, livestock, equipment and civil works components. The project is now
progressing satisfactorily, but recruitment of consultants has remained a
problem, as MARDI has decided against any long-term appointments. In order
to build a more effective link between research and extension and to improve
the transfer of new technology to farmers, MARDI and DOA have recently
agreed to work more closely. After a long delay, the construction of ELU's
office complex and installation of the ELU and DOA computers are underway.
Disbursements are in line with the reappraisal target but there has been
some reallocation of proceeds, in particular, the agreement with the Bank to
finance a metabolism unit and controlled environment facilities.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/
state relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the
main constraints are (a) the inability to fill operative level posts due to
the shortage of trained staff and the temporary status of posts; and (b) the
inability of the Public Works Department to prepare timely civil works
designs. Hiring of operative level staff will improve significantly in
Peninsular Malaysia in 1982 because of the increase of graduates specialized
in agriculture; however it will continue to be a major problem in Sabah and
Sarawak. Civil works construction is expected to show considerable
improvement in Peninsular Malaysia. Progress is satisfactory in Sarawak and
improving in Sabah.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Progress has been slow due mainly to delays in forest clearance
and land release in some areas of Pahang State. In January 1982, Bank
agreed to FELDA's request to replace the problem areas and change the crop
mix. The project now consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of
21,000 ha of rubber, 8,000 ha of oil palm and 800 ha of cocoa; settlement of
7,200 smallholders; and construction of necessary housing and infrastructure
facilities. FELDA plans to accelerate the project implementation rate to



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
complete all plantings by late 1984 in line with appraisal estimates. About
13,800 ha have been planted to date against the appraisal target of 29,100
ha, but disbursements to December 1981 were only $2.5 million against the
appraisal target of $16 million.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 16,400 ha of
traditional coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, and fruits; new
planting and replanting of about 6,900 ha with hybrid coconuts and
associated cash crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the
importation of about 6,600 crossbred dairy animals for the development of
about 3,350 integrated dairy and beef operations in coconut areas; and the
strengthening of support services for crop and dairy production. The crop
component is progressing with uneven performance; rehabilitation is ahead of
schedule while replanting is considerably behind schedule. At the end of
June 1981, 9,400 farmers had received assistance to rehabilitate 8,500 ha
(117% of appraisal estimates) and replant 1,900 ha (62% of appraisal
estimates). In the future progress is projected to slow down due to the low
prices of cocoa and coconut. The dairy/beef component is about 2 years
behind schedule because of the delay in establishing a cattle holding
center. Only when the center is established, import of heifers will
commence. The first shipment will consist of heifers purchased and raised
in New Zealand for about one year.
Loan No. 1899 Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan df December 1, 1980; Effective Date: June 2, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project will provide assistance to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR
land settlement schemes to complete development of their holdings and to
replant or rehabilitate existing crops. About 1,800 families will be
settled to develop landholdings on the schemes. About 11,300 ha of
rubber will be planted, 5,700 ha rehabilitated and 2,800 ha replanted, and
1,200 ha of orchard rehabilitated. With the exception of settlers' housing,
implementation of the project is behind schedule. Progress of planting and
replanting have been delayed due to insufficient supply of planting material
and delays in construction of farm roads. RISDA's extension unit has been
established but is not yet operating in the project area. TAKDIR still lacks
the necessary managerial and implementation capacity and requires considerable
strengthening.



3
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1900 Rural Credit Project; US$30.0 Million Loan of December 1, 1980;
Effective Date: June 2, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
r
The project was designed to support the expansion of Bank Pertanian
Malaysia's (BPM) portfolio of agricultural production credits, and term loans
for rural development and agricultural production; and provide assistance to
expand BPM's branch network, to improve its financial management and planning
function and to develop its staff training program. The project includes a
large credit component for smallholder loans up to 15 years, depending on
crops, at interest 1.5% above prime rate.
Loan No. 2013 FELCRA I Project; US$37.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1981;
Effective Date: March 10, 1982; Clsing Date: December 31,
1986
The project would finance the fringe area and rehabilitation scheme
elements of FELCRA's tree crop program for the Fourth Plan Period (1981-85),
extending to a total 34,000 ha. It includes the development of about 50
proposed fringe schemes and rehabilitation of about 40 existing unassisted
land development schemes and provision of two palm oil mills. Although behind
schedule, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Land develop-
ment is underway in 14 schemes, and construction of palm oil mills and
procurement of equipment for both the mills are also underway.
Loan No. 973  Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in a tree crop
area of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an
integrated agricultural development program to introduce intercropping and
other changes in cropping patterns, construction of farmers' development
centers, and improvements in research and extension. All civil works have
either been completed or started and expect to be completed by end-1983,
except for the farm roads which would be completed by 1985. The pace of
agricultural development, initially slow, has now improved. The Government
has formulated an action program to accelerate the agricultural development
component. Consultants will be engaged to assist the Government in the
preparation of the Phase II of the project.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km
of rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,



- 32 -
ANNEX 1i
Page 7 of 14 pages
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers' development centers; and estab-
lishment of agricultural extension services. Problems related to land
acquisition, staffing and limited construction capability which initially
delayed implementation of civil works have been largely overcome.  Most                      p
project components should be completed by end-1983, some three years behind
schedule. Agricultural support services have been established and are
working well.
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems
with a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout
Malaysia; technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equip-
ment and a completed feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation
project (Loan 1957-MA). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and
work should be completed by end-1983. Of the 195 proposed schemes to be
implemented under the project, 84 schemes have been either rejected or
deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 16 new schemes have been
added. The revised number of schemes proposed under the project is now 127,
covering about 42,000 ha, all of which have been approved by the Bank for
inclusion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and
Evaluation Team. Construction of 39 schemes had been completed and 73
schemes are under construction.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of an irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage works for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but now significant progress has been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. Draft agricultural
services operation and irrigation O&M manuals have been prepared. The
project is expected to be completed by mid-1985, about two and a half years
behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensified agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
the state of Perak. Due to initial staff shortages and continuing delays in
land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of 1985,
some two years behind the appraisal estimate, but those difficulties have
been largely overcome and progress is more satisfactory. Total cost of the
project is now estimated at US$115 million, up about 92% from the appraisal
level of US$60 million. The substantial cost increase was due to the high
inflation rate in the construction sector and some increase in work
quantities.
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, where the storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project (Loan
434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary irri-
gation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement
of operation and maintenance facilities, and drainage and coastal protection
works serving the entire 98,000 ha area. Project completion is now expected
by end-1985, as compared to end-1983 at appraisal. Implementation was
initially hampered by delays in land acquisition, the nationwide lack of
contractors due to the booming construction sector and the need for
retenders due to high bid prices, but these problems have been largely
overcome and implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Total project
costs have increased to US$100 million, about 45% higher than the appraisal
estimate of US$69 million.
Loan 1957 Rompin-Endau Area Development Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project is designed to provide for construction of irrigation
works and development of new land for double cropping for rice on about
11,400 ha in four subprojects along the Rompin, Pontian, and Anak Endau
rivers in southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia
and for housing and social facilities for about 4,750 settler families. The
Project Manager was appointed on December 21, 1981. Overall project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily but delay in appointing
consultants has delayed land clearing operations by up to 12 months.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Loan 1960 Trans-Perak Area Development Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date: October 23, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would provide for development of 13,600 ha of new land
for rice and treecrops, and rehabilitation of 4,900 ha of existing rice land
in Perak State.  It would also include roads, housing, community facilities,
palm oil and cocoa mills, and supporting services for agriculture and com-
munity development for about 6,900 settler families, presently landless or
cultivating uneconomic-sized holdings in Perak and other states. The
Project Coordinator was appointed on November 16, 1981. Implementation of
the rice develpment and rehabilitation components is progressing
satisfactorily but some construction works are behind schedule due to DID
staffing constraints. Part of the treecrop development has also been
delayed by contractor and drainage problems.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project includes seven secondary schools, one junior college,
four teacher training colleges, one polytechnic institute, and educational
radio and television facilities. Project implementation is about two and half
years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design and
tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor. Construction of about 80% of project locations has
been completed, and the remaining works are expected to be completed by June
1982.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction
of approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project
total) is satisfactory. About 75% of the primary schools have been
completed; the remaining project items are under construction and are
expected to be completed in mid-1983. The delay is related to rural project
locations, land acquisition and shortages of building material. At
Government request, a one year extension of the closing date is planned.



- 35 -                     ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
tional training. Implementation performance is good (of 76 planned secondary
schools 13% have been completed an about 43% are under construction), and
overall the project is being implemented on schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project consists of extension of the Prai Thermal Power
Station, installation of 132 kV transmission line from Majadee switching
station to Kota Tinggi, and extension of 11 kv distribution system to two
rural areas. Extension of Prai Power Station is now completed except for
the remaining retention payments. Due to savings in project cost, the loan
amount was reduced to US$32.0 million.
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project consists of construction, supply and implementation
of oil-fired thermal power station at Pasir Gudang, and supply and installa-
tion of transmission facilities. The first unit at the Pasir Gudang Thermal
Power Station was synchronized in January 1982, which was 6 months behind
schedule. The commission date for the second unit is planned for September
1982. It is planned to extend the closing date by about one year.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project consists of construction of two dams and hydroelectric
power stations in upper reaches of Perak River, supply and installation of
associated transmission and substation facilities and, energy sector
development study. Most contracts have already been awarded. The project
is behind schedule by about two months due to delays in structural



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
steelwork, however, the completion date will not be affected. A saving of
about US$8.0 million is expected in the loan amount, due to lower cost of
awarded contracts.
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date:  August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year masterplan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing
satisfactorily. Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have
created serious problems, some of which still persist. Sewerage surcharges
on water bills were instituted after considerable delays. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about three years behind the appraisal
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and
East Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region
of North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project is virtually complete except for a one mile bypass of
Batu Caves, a northern suburb of Kuala Lumpur, where construction has been
held up due to a squatter removal problem which is still unresolved. The
Government intends to complete this work later using its own funds. All
studies have been completed. After settlement of contractual claims, which
are being assessed, about US$0.5 million of the loan will remain undisbursed
and will be cancelled.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and con-
sultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
Overall, the project is about 80% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in
September 1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is
completed. Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one is 90%
complete and the second is 33% complete. The work on both sections has
ceased since the beginning of 1982 due to severe financial difficulties
faced by the contractor. Consequently, project completion will be delayed
by over a year. Government is considering whether to call new bids to
complete the works.
Satisfactory progress has been made with Road Upgrading Program
and in establishing the road maintenance organization in Sabah and equipment
has been procured, but execution of Road Maintenance Program is limited by
inadequate funding and Government is considering supplementary budgeting.
Setting up road maintenance sections in three pilot states in Peninsular
Malaysia has been completed. The Pavement Strengthening Program in the
three pilot states will be completed in mid-1982 and is being extended to
other states. The urban study of Kota Kinabalu in Sabah and the
transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia have been completed. The
Closing Date is likely to require extension by about 18 months.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth; and
(c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports Authority (SPA) by providing
technical assistance and staff training. Civil works commenced in December
1979 and are about 80% completed., Traffic for 1981 was more than forecast
but SPA's cash flow position is deteriorating because there have been no
tariff adjustments to rising costs of port operations and required port
expansion. Tariff increases have been proposed by SPA. Management
consultants completed work and submitted their draft final report in January
1982.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Due to delays experienced during the early stages of design and
construction, the Project is now expected to be completed by December 1982,
14 months later than anticipated at the time of appraisal. Most of the
facilities, however, will be available for use by mid-1982. Construction
costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project execution,
combined with rapid inflation.
POPULATION
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for
the improvement of maternal and child health.
Implementation of this project has been slow, due partly to staff
turnovers in the implementing agencies, and to planning delays concerning
several of the larger construction facilities. As of September 30, 1981,
145 sites out of 200 facilities under the project had been acquired and 64
of these were either completed or are under construction. Progress in the
procurement, training, research, evaluation, the civil works component in
Sarawak, and women's development program activities under the Ministry of
Agriculture are all satisfactory. The National Family Planning Board, in
collaboration with other implementing agencies, has completed the opera-
tional manual. Recently, a base-line project evaluation has been completed;
the data are being analyzed.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primar-
ily concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approa-
ches to residential development for low-income families. The main components



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
are: (a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced
plots for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure
services for existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support
traffic management and transport planning, to prepare an urban development
project for Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs.
The major problems encountered during project implementation,
besides delays in construction, were reluctance of the Government to pursue
public transport policy measures and disagreements between the Bank and the
Government relating to policy issues on the Sites and Services component.
At the time of the earlier closing date of the loan - June 30, 1981
sufficient improvements had been made in the public transport capacity and
coordination among concerned agencies, the level of staffing in the Traffic
Management Department (TMD) and in the hiring of foreign traffic consultants
to assist in the training and advising of traffic engineering problems, to
warrant an extension of the loan closing date until December 31, 1982.
Civil works and traffic control equipment for the Traffic Management
Department - City Hall are nearly complete. The inner ring road has now
been opened to traffic. The Traffic Dispersal Scheme (Stage 1 with 2 lanes)
is expected to be completed by mid-1982. At the time of the earlier closing
date, the Bank and the Government agreed to cancel the Sites and Services
component of the project.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
MALAYSIA
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the Project:               Five months
(b)  Agency which prepared the Project:               Government with ILO
assistance
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:                  June 1981
(d)  Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission:          August 1981
(e)  Date of Departure of Post-Appraisal Mission:  January 1982
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                      April 1982
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                   July 1982
Section II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government's scholarship program to train about 460 instructors
for the proposed five polytechnics would be implemented as planned
(para. 38);
(b) The Government's scholarship program to train about 210 instructors
for the proposed five ITIs would be implemented as planned
(para. 44);
(c) A consolidated apprenticeship training program would be introduced
to new apprentices enrolled at all ITIs beginning July 1, 1983
(para. 45); and
(d) The Government would establish appropriate positions for carrying
out the project with qualified staff appointed in a timely manner
(para. 51).



.BRD 16187
-   ivG                            \  ; Ia ~I00>                                                                         103'                                   ,o4.  JANUARY 1ss2
-   7c-rngp4    ~       -  -S  ~-                                                                            M ALAYS IA
Paeda,, eWa                                                   \                                            INDUSTRIAL TRAINING PROJECT
>  ,sJi,>               T ~~~~~H A I L A N D\
Kan                                                                                                                         Ai       MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
fPOLYTECHNICS
j I'a                                                                                              'A ~~~~~TAopl    IN IST RY O)F LARDS  A ND M AN POWE R
Merrontl                                                                                                                              i k ,Jt,g  /  ts <FNDUSTRIAL TRAINING INSTITUTES
MRtSSr'Gg               SITAr,                                                      /        KeI WintGr                                    FEDERAL  ROADS
(  TT  IIYRAR .         LA  305                        _________  ~~~OTHER ROADS
KE\AK  .  r  h/    -2--n--n--+ |                              %          ,                          ,RAILWAYS
Po--n  --   STATE BOUN DAR IES
I'                     Th0nge1)    _            R}l               -             INTESNATIONAL8OUNDARIES
Bumbong L i 0                    I                1S
PE/W A'1 1-                                                                                         20      AS     50       5 G   IN
ORAngE hen)< '<         /
PK AG               KI          )                                                                                                              iLOMATEES
I                                                                            Trn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nggaeeu
K   , A   TA NA 
P P P   A     K     r 
IK.alcKur                                                                                      TR   E NG  GA  r" U  \                                                 5
, Id         T                        r ng (
/y~         ~~ 7&C          j(1fX_-/   
, A Kcngscar                                                                 -.5                  AO,DUNgJI
I   Sungei Baging
Hilir  P             )      )    ~~~~~       ~       ~     ~~~~~Raub                      K ,5Kunton|S   o   LI                       i
21           A                      N   G~~~~~~~~A                                           O
f t TOEOR                S <apse51l  /
-.  (ROIl SRWrI5Cr     -  Gortibo       entor
Wao3d~~ ~ ~ BanE stR aahonl                      NGr  S               trF            4'
Sh    ntannadTanjong Ka, th
_     Kuatu Senor                 am                            35                                                               e C
KUJX ALA0PU L P
g_  rhEs meehas beenprrwaredbythe        ~~~ ~~~Port     rr  t<lng J                            \
Rnt iecsrt ton whin  ,this mance                                            >                   )
dob fettnat d o/y  nstsdt the par of S                                               utaPEc/ 
WetrIdb*R'e,POd t ifa PrIi,tteany 50ebn                                                     i1            W/                                     i
,eap .rate taorpahraR ndnaseen,an                                                                                                                  N Dl}Y   
if            OZ ~~aancseprante of Su, bohundanes                                    IcrhnCson            T  arnpnt, Senrmo   3SegmOl --.                              \ 
~~~'  '    ~~~~~~~~~~                e                     ,SJ          f                               Me-sl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ngX
thOc      1PHILIk.N                                          /-                                                                       Iog
I- A'    "        ,Y 5t9<,                                 -[           D       N        SA-
161  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                          PSIntiJnI(RnRi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ,g
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
C, NG~~~~AUEhrg....                                    .......... ANT6N    / tS U  To t rO                 8- --   INGAPORE
i    >  t  N9=CTi  O,~0  N   EtS S   I  A                                         1  i2'        %     j                  103'                            7       14
.  z  z  .  4 .  _._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



