Docume
The Wor
FOR OFFICIAL
Report No. 10000-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 18, 1991
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Curren' Rate (Official):  US$1   ' Ch$305 (Averags&  1990)
US$1 - Ch$345 (June 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASWRES
Metric System
1 meter (m)                -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  -  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (m ton)       -  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
1 liter (1)                -  0.264178 US gallon (gal)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DIPLAP         Planning and Finance Division / MOH (Divisifn de Planificaci6n
y Presupuesto del. Ministerio de Salud)
DIPROG         Programming Division/ MOH (Divisi6n de Programacifn del
Ministerio de Salud)
PAP            Fee-for-Service System for Reimburs.Lng Hospitals (Facturaci6n
por Atencion Prestada Integral)
FAPEM          Fee-for-Service System for Reimbursing Municipal Health
Facilities (Facturaci6t por Atenci6n Prestada en
Establec:Lmientos .Municipalizados)
FNDR           National Regional Development Fund (Fondo Nacional de
Desarrollo Regional)
FONASA         National Health Fund (Fondo Nacional de Salud)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product (Producto Geoge&fico Bruto)
HSA            Health Service Area (Ser;ricios de Salud)
HSRP           Health Sector Reform Project (Proyecto de Reforma del Sector
de Salud)
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo)
ISAPRES        Prepaid Health Insurance Plans (Instituciones de Salud
Previsional)
ISP            Institute of Public Health (Instituto de Salud Publica)
JGF            Japanese Grant Facility
MIDEPLAN       Ministry of Planning (Ministerio de Planificaci6n)
MOF            Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda)
MOH            Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MS             Santiago Metropolitan Health Services Region (Servicio de Salud
Metropolitano / Santiago)
NHS            National Health Service
NHSS           National Health Service System (Sistema Nacional de Servicios
de Salud)
PCU            Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos)
PNAC           National Supplementary Feeding Program (Programa Nacional de
Alimentacion Complementaria)
PPF            Project Preparation Facility (Financiamiento para Preparacion
de Proyectos)
PPS            Preferred Provider System (Sistema de Libre Elecci6n)
SEREMI         Secretariat of the Regional Health Service Area (Secretaria
Regional Ministerial)
SERMENA        National Medical Service for Employees (Servicio Medico
Nacional)
SP             Social Fund (Fondo Social)
TAHRP          Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project
(Proyecto de Asistencia T6cnica y de Rehabilitaci6n de
Hospitales)
TFR            Total Fertility Rate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ix. -
CHILE
IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page, No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......       ............... ..o...  ......... .v - viii
BASIC DATA AND DEFINITIONS .. .................................. ix - xi
I.  BACKGROUND  ......... ...1....            ...... ....... o....               I
II.  SECTORAL CONTEXT ..........   * .. . .   ***................                 2
A.  Population, Health and Nutrition Status             .     .....         2
B.  The Health Care System ............. ....                               4
C.  Health Care Resources and Utilization                   . ...           7
D.  Health Care Expenditures and Financing of Services. ..                  9
IlI.  HEALTH AND HOSPITAL SITUATION IN METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO (MS)                 12
A.  Health Status ...........  o...........                                12
B.  Public Hospital Network ...  .... . ..... ...... . .12
IV.  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY..                                     14
A.      Issues    ... * o *............  ..........   . o # o. . . ... oo   14
B.  Government Sectoral Strategy         .                                 19
V.  ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR..                           .      .    21
A.  Bank's Role and Strategy  ..                   ......................... t  21
B.  Tlhe Role of Other Donors ............so ............*....             22
C.  Lessons From Past Experience ............             ........         23
VI.  THE PROJECT ....... o...o...... .  ... too .... ... t ....        ... .    25
A.  Project Objectives, Rationale and Area  .....              .....o      25
B.  Main Features of the Project ... ..... .....t  .......                 27
C.  Technical Assistance . .... .. s . ..............o.... ...             27
D.  Pilot-Tests/Start-Up Operations ........... ... o........    33
E.  Hospital Rehabilitation Program........-.......0* ......               34
VII.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN ...............              ........       36
A.  Project Costs ... ...... .**..*. * .... ...36
B.  Financing Plan ....o..... ............ ...  ...........    38
VIII.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION o ... . .......... ........... .........             38
A.  Project Management and Coordination                      ........    38
B.  Procurement   .. ..         .. o...     . ...o... . . ........o        40
C.  Status of Preparation ....... .....         .........o... s . ..    42
D.  Disbursements and Accounts .........ooo   ......... ...    42
E.  Audits .........         ....... ,, ........................           44
F.  Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision           ......        44
G.  Environmental Aspect  ...  .o.    .... . .. ......    ....    44
H.  Impact on Women ...................................... .    45



- iili
IX.  EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS . .................................   45
A.  Benefits ......                   ........                     45
B.    Risks   o*. .* s .....o .......                              46
X. AGREEMENTS TOBE REACHEDAND RECOMMENDATIONS .................    46
LIST  OF  ANNE ES   .........   .... O....#.......... 0.4 ..............  49
ANNEX  l:  HEALTH SECTOR DATA ...........            .....0 ........t..  50
Table  1:  Crude Birth Rates, Crude Death Rates, Infant Mortality
Rates, 1945-89 ............ I....... *.              ............. 50
Table  2:  Principal Causes of Death, 1980-88                          51
Table  3:  Number and Type of Consultations\Chile, 1989                52
Table  4: Number of Hospital Beds, 1981-89                             53
Table  5: Hospital Discharges, 1978-89 ...                .........   54
Table  6: Public Sector Medical Personnel, 1978-89                     55
Table  7: Public Health Fir.ancing, 1980-90,..........,                55
Table  8:  Public Health Expenditures, 1980-90                         56
Table  9:  Public Sector Hospital Beds\ Metropolitan Santiago
Region,   1990..........................                  56
Table 10:  Public Sector Hospitals, Construction Date and Size\
Metropolitan Santiago Region, 1989 ................    57
Table 11:  Public Hospital Activity\Metropolitan Santiago Region,
1989                 ...............58
Table 12: Location of Health Care Facilities\Metropolitan Santiago
Region, 1989....... .. ..............    60
Table 13: Waiting Period for Hospitalization\Metropolitan
Santiago Region, 1991. .....  .................    60
Figure 1: Health Sector Organizational Structure                       61
Figure 2: MOH Organization Chart ...............................****** .   62
Figure 3:  Flow of Public Health Funds ........ 0 ...............      63
Chart  1:  Health Services Beneficiaries by Type of Provider, 1989    64
Annex  2:  Implementation Schedule and Sources of Financing of
Technical Assistance Studies ........... .................  65
Annex  3: Project Action Plan ....................         ...         66
Annex  4:  Summary of Recommendations of the Study on the Reform
of the Public Health Care System ................. ...  70
Annex  5:  Training Plan.. ...............      ..     .. ....... so  79
Annex  6: Diagnostic Study of Public Hospitals in Metropolitan
Santiago   ..................  **#*0.             ....      82
Annex  7:  Criteria for the Selection of Ilospital Subprojects......   91
Annex  8:  Budget Cycle of Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects ....   95
Annex  9: List of Subprojects Recommended for Financing ..........   96
Annex 10:  Detailed Project Costs and Financing Tables ............  98



- iv -
Parte No.
Annex 11:  PCU Organizational Chart and Terms of Reference    ..........  107
Annex 12:  Subproject Procurement and Disbursement Cycle ............  lll
Annex 13:  Terms of Reference of Major Project Reviews ..............   112
Annex 14:  Working Papers and List of Documents in the Project Files.   113
MAP:       IBRD #23251 and IBRD #23358
This report is based on the appraic.l discussions held in
September/October 1991 between the World Bank and the Chilean Ministry of
Health. World Bank staff included Messrs./Mesdames Evangeline Jav'er (Task
Manager), Patricio Marquez (Public Health Specialist) (LA4HR); Marta Molares
(Sr. Legal Counsel, LEGLA); and Carlo& Trabucco (Procurement Adviser, LACVP).
In addition, a preappraisal mission consisting of Ms. Evanbeline Javier,
Mr. Patriclo Marquez, and Ms. Jeannette Mercado (Consultant, Operations
Analyst) visited Chile in June/July 1991 to review in detail the project
proposal. Messrs. Philip Musgrove (Health Economist, LATHR) and Jean Pillet
(Consultant, Public Health Specielist) provided valuable technical advice and
substantive contribution. Meedames Shahrzad Gohari (Economist, LA4HR) and
Suzzane McQueen (Summer Intern) contributed to the report. The report also
draws on a draft social development report prepared by Me. Karen Lashman
(LA4CO). This report was edited by Mr. William Mayville. Ms. Lien-Hiep
Nguyen and Me. Lucine Juskalian (Staff Assistants, LA4HR) provided assistance
in the production of the report.
Task Manager:    Ms. Evangeline Javier (LA4HR);
Division Chief:  Mr. James W. Adams (LA4HR);
Director:        Mr. Ping-Cheung Loh (LA4DR);
Peer Reviewers:  Mr. Willy de Geyndt (ASTPH); and
Mr. Jose Bobadilla (PHRHN).



- v -
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Chile
Beneficiary:              Ministry of Health (MOH)
Amount:                   US$27 million, equivalent
Terms:                    Repayment in 17 "ears, including a 4 year grace
period with interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate.
Proiect Objectives:       The primary project objectives are:  (a) to assist
the Government in developing and launching critical policy,
institutional, and operational reforms that will increase the efficiency
and effectiveness of health care delivery; and (b) to initiate the
improvement in the quality of hospital services in Metropolitan Santiago
by upgrading selected physical facilities and medical technology, which
have seriously deteriorated after a decade of almost no investment.
Specifically, the project would:
(-J) assist in the development, pilot-testing, and/or initiation of key
reform measures in health service delivery reorientation, health
financing, health labor incentives, strategic planning and management
improvement, and procurement and quality assurance of pharmaceuticals
and food supplements;
(ii) assist the Ministry of Health, under a sector development scheme,
to respond systematically to urgent requests for reconstruction,
rehabilitation, and upgrading of selected hospitals in Metropolitan
Santiago that pose health and safety hazards to their patients, staff,
and surrounding environs, and/or are providing inadequate health care
partly because of severely deteriorating facilities and medical
equipment;
(iii) facilitate the decentralization of decision-making and resource
management by delegating to the HSAs and hospital managers/staff in the
project area the needs analysis, as well as execution of hospital
rehabilitation subprojects in their respective areas.
Proiect Decription:       The project represents the first stage in the Bank's
planned assistance to the health sector. In this regard, it would
comprise the preparation stage for a possible sector operation (the
proposed Health Sector Reform Project). This first operation would
support the project objectives by financing the following components:



- vi -
(a) Tec ical Assistance (14 percent of total Drolect cost): This
component consists of (i) about 12 policy/institutional reform and
infrastructure investment studies, covering diagnostic and implementa-
tion design stages; and (ii) pilot-testing of key refcrms (the Pilot
Implementation Program), as well as the startup phase of the information
system, and training and information workshops. While the technical
assistance component accounts for less than 20 percent of total project
cost, it is the centerpiece of the proposed operation. The studies,
pilot tests, and startup operations address the core of the sector's
major efficiency problems. The project features built-in flexibility to
adapt, as appropriate, the recommendations of the reform studies.
(b) Hostital Rehabilitation-Program (80 percent of total prolect cost):
This component would finance urgent rehabilitation needs of 17 hospitals
(Type J and 2) in six Health Service Areas (HSAs) in the poor urban and
semi-rural areas of Metropolitan Santiago. Financing of the hospital
rehabilitation subprojects would be allocated using a demand-driven
mechanism, i.e., subprojects would be proposed by the hospitals through
their respective HSAs; these would be reviewed and approved by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in conjunction with the Ministry of
Plarnning, using selection criteria agreed with the Bank. The
subprojects would be implemented by the HSAs; periodic monitoring and
review of implementation progress would be exercised by the PCU.
(c) Proiect Administration (6 percent of total project costL: This
component would support the operation of a PCU which would coordinate
project implementation, provide assistance to the HSAs, and continue
preparation of a possible follow-up operation.
Expected Benefits:        The principal benefits include:
(a) initiation of a process of addressing the sector's medium-term
objectives (i.e., increased efficiency of resource use, improved quality
at all care levels, ability to respond to the new health challenges of
an aging polpulation, and increasing the equitable access to health
services through a better definition and fulfillment of the respective
roles of the private and public sectors) through the completion of
studies, and pilot-testing or startup, of critical health sector
reforms; the proposed project has begun to generate benefits at the
preparation stage with the adoption by the Government of the major
recommendations of the first phase of the pertinent studies, and the
commencement of public debate on the more complex health financing
reform proposals;
(b) improving health service provision to a majority of the poor
population of Metropolitan Santiago by upgrading the dilapidated capital
stock of 17 public hospitals that cater to the ambulatory and tertiary
care needs of the city's semi-rural and marginal periurban areas;
(c) creation of a receptive environment for the implementation of some
of the difficult policy and institutional reforms being prepared under
the project through information dissemination workshops and visible
improvement in the efficiency of some of the ambulatory health care
needs;



- vii -
(d) improvement in the project preparation, evaluation, and implementing
capacity of about 70 directors and selected staff of the MOH, the HSAs,
and the hospitals in the Metropolitan Region through in-service (i.e.,
involvement in planning and implementation of loan-financed hospital
rehabilitation subprojects) and formal training programs.
Risks  nd Safeguarda:    The major risks include:  (a) the complexity of most
reforms, especially in health financing; (b) the long-term horizon of
the sector reforms, most of which would be fully implemented either
towards the end of the current government's tenure, or during the next
administration; and (a) the lack of project implementation experience,
especially of the HSAs and hospital managers. These risks would be
minimized by the direct involvement and close supervision by the Bank of
the different stages of elaboration and implementation of the reforms;
pilot testing of the critical recommendations to ensure a feasible
design; ample public dissemination and discussions of the proposed
reforms to ensure broad consensus; institution of a Medium-Term Project
Review by the Bank and the Government to evaluate the implementation
progress of the rehabilitation works, as well as the completion of the
activities and conditions of the Action Plan; and technical assistance
and supervision to be provided by the PCU to the HSAs, as well as the
training under the project. Also, the project design has taken into
account some of the lessons learned in Bank- and other organization-
financed health projects, emphasizing a phased approach and built-in
flexibility in instituting complex reforms and meeting the medium-term
investment requirements of the health sector.



- v1ii -
Estimated Costs  l                     (USS Million). .            __PercentL
Local     Foreign   Total           Base Cost
Project Components
Hospital Rehabilitation    19.3         12.8      32.1            79.9
Studies                       3.1       0.1        3.2             8.0
Pilot Tests/Startup
Operations       2.1        0.8       2.9              7.2
Project Management            1.8       0.2        2.0             5.0
Baseline Cost 2                 26.3       13.9      40.2
Physical Contingencies           1.4        0.7       2.1
Price Contingencies              2.0        1.0       3.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST              29.7       15.6      45.3
Financing Plan
Duties
Prolect Cost               and       Total   Percent of Cost
Source          Local   Foreign   Total   Taxes       Cost    Proiect   Total
Bank            11.7        15.3    27.0       0.0     27.0      68.7     59.6
Government      11.6         0.0    11.5       6.0     17.6      29.3     38.8
Japanese Grant
Facility    0.4         0.3      0.7      0.0       0LZ      2.0       1.5
Total           23.7        15.6    39.3       6.0     45.3
Estimated IBRD Disbursement          FY93       FY94       FY95      FY96
Annual                               11.4        10.4       3.7        1.5
Cumulative                           11.4        21.8       25.5     27.0
Economic Rate of Return              Not applicable
1/ Totals may not add due to rounding.
2/ Includes local taxes amounting to US$6.0 million.



BASIC DATA SHEET
GENERAL COUNTRY DATA
Area (thousaud kin)                                            756.6      1990
Total population (millions)                                     13.1      1990
Urban population (2 of total)                                   85.0      1939
Annual population growth rate (2):
Total                                                     1.8       1989
Urban                                                     2.9       1989
Population density (persons/a/k)                                18.0      1989
GNP per capita                                              2,359.0       1990
Energy coacumption per capita   (kg of oil equivaleut)         836        1989
LABOR FORCE
Total labor force (millions):                                   4.9       1990
Agriculture (2)                                          15.5      1990
Manufacturing (2)                                        lf.1      1990
Personal and domestic services                           1.9       1990
Participaion Rate (2):
Total                                                    37.5      1990
Male                                                     70.5      1987
Female                                                   26.9      1987
sOUSING
Average siue of household:
Urban                                                     4.2       1987
Rural                                                     4.6       1987
Percent of population in penmanent dwellings                    70.0      1987
Percent of dwelli p8 with electricity:
Urban                                                    97.9       1989
Rural                                                    62.0       1989
Highest 202 income group                                 97.6       1987
Lowest 202 income group                                  83.9       1987
Percent of households with accesz to sewage syst..:
urban                                                    85.8       1989
Rural                                                    11.7       1989
Population wit% access to safe water (2):
Urban                                                   98.5        1989
Rtral                                                   77.0        1989
EDUCATION
Adult illiteracy rate (2 of persons 15 and over)               5.6        1990
Enrollment rates (z):
Preschool (age 2-5)                                     28.4       1989
Primary (age 6-13)                                      94.6       1989
Secondary (age 14-17)                                   81.6       1989
Average schooling (year.):
Children                                                10.0       1989
Head of household                                        8.0       1989
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Per capita daily supply of:
Calories                                            2,584.0        1983
Physician supply (per 1,000 persons):
Total:                                                    1.6        1990
Public system (SNSS)                                      0.58       1990
Hompital bed supply (per 1,000 persons)                         3.27      1990
Total fertility rate                                            2.7       1990
Life cxpectancy at birth (years)                               72.0       1989
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000)                              17.1       1990
Maternal mortality rate   (per 100,000 liv- births)             4.1       1980
Births attended by a health professional (perceat)             98.0       198S
Low birth weight babies (percent)                               7.0       1985
5ources World Developeut Report. World lak 15911 ScIal Dovelemt rrogress t Chil, World lak 1901 CASI XX Chile amat r
Profile, Sconimoc Tutelligetioe omit 1l3l1 sfP Report, Chiesa Z USaia of health 1051.



- x -
Crude Birth Rate               Number of live births per year per 1,000 people
Crude Death Rate               Number o. -aths per year per 1,000 people
Rate of Natural Increase       Difference between crude birth and crude death
rates; usually expressed as a percentage
Rate of Population Growth      Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
migration, and expressed as a percentage of tha
total population in a given year
Dependency Ratio                Population 14 years or under and 65 years or
older as a percentage of the population age 15
to 64 years
Literacy Rate                  The pet.centage of persons age 12 and over who
can read and write
Mortality                      Death in a population
Morbidity                       Disease and illness in a population
Infant Mortality Rate          Annual deaths of infants younger than 1-year-
old per 1,000 live births during the same year
Child Death Rate               The number of deaths among children one to four
years of age per 1,000 children in that a&a
group in a given year
Life Fxpectancy at Birth       The number of years a newborn child would live
if subject to the age-specific mortality rates
prevailing at time of birth
Maternal Mortality Rate        Number of maternal deaths per 10,000 live
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, childbirth, or post-partum
Total Fertility Rate           The average number of children a woman will
have if she experiences a given set (i.e.,
those then prevailing among women of those
ages) of age specific fertility rates
throughout her lifetime. Serves as an estimate
of the number of children per completed family
Contraceptive Prevalence       The percentage of married women in reproductive
ages who are regularly using a method of
contraception.
Age-specific mortality rates  Death rates broken down for each age group
population



- xi -
DE-1INITIONS (Continued)
Potential years of life lost  The number of potentially productive years loot
to a specific disease
Incidence Rate                 The number of persons contracting a disease as
a proportion of the population at risk, by unit
of time usually expressed per 1,000 persons
Prevaience Rate                The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per
population. Usually expressed per 1,000
persons
Chronic Diseases               Those illnesses characterized by a long latency
period, prolonged clinical course, and
deb4litating manifestations
Average Occupancy              Number of hospitals patient-days/number of beos
rate multiplied by 365
Average Length of Stay         Number of hospital patient-days/number of
patient admissions



REPUBLIC OF CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The promotion of social justice with macroeconomic stability and
growth is the centerpiece of the Chilean Government's development agenda.
President Aylwin assumed office in early 1990 with a platform focussed on
poverty alleviation without undermining the economic growth momentum. The
Government has maintained economic policies consistent with an open, market
economy, promoting the private sector as the main engine of growth.
Productive activities are diversifying rapidly, as Chile reduces its earlier
dependence on natural resource extraction, increases the international
competitiveness of its exports, and develops its service sector. Within the
stri-'tly guarded constraints of a balanced fiscal budget, the public sector
has started to improve the quality and efficiency of key social programs as a
means to assure access of the less privileged to select basic needs,
particularly health and education services.
1.02      Chile's social development over the last three decades has been
impressive. While Chile's GNP per capita of US$2,130 in 1990 places it among
lower-middle-income countries, its social indicators closely resemble the
profile observed in developed countries. Chile's average life expectancy at
birth of 72 years (1990) is well above the Latin American average of 66 years;
infant mortality rate is a relatively low 17/1,000; the prevalence of moderate
and severe malnutrition (measured by weight-for-age) among children under six
years of age is less than 1 percent (1988), similar to that of developed
countries; and the average level of educational attainment of 10 years of
schooling among the population 15 years of age or older (1987) and overall
adult literacy rate of 94 percent are achievements to which many developing
countries aspire.
1.03      The foregoing developments have been fostered by a strong political
commitment to social welfare by successive governments of widely disparate
political philosophies. Sustained public investments in maternal and child
health care and food supplementation programs, basic education and potable
water and sanitation have played a major role in health improvements. In the
1980's, Chile introduced health sector reforms which aimed to redefine the
role of the State, decentralize primary health care responsibilities to the
municipalities, revise health financing mechanisms, promote private sector
participation in both the delivery and financing of health services, and
target public health and nutrition expenditures to low-income groups.
However, in spite of these efforts, serious imbalances and resource use
inefficiencies continue to limit health sector productivity, efficiency, and
service quality. In addition, there are pockets of the population, especially
in marginal areas, with health status notably lower than the rest of the
population.
1.04      Problems exist with the quality and resource-use efficiency of
health services at all levels of the system--primary, secondary and tertiary
care. Major problems include the lack of complementarity between the distinct
levels of care; low internal efficiency in service delivery, particularly
within the public hospital network; distortions in the pricing and in the



-2 
pattern of utilization of health services resulting from the mode of financing
of health services; and limitations in the institutional and manpower
capability of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and its autonomous agencies.
Moreover, numerous municipalities lack the administrative and financial
capacity to provide adequate primary care. Overall, relatively scarce public
resources for the sector need tc be complemented by a stronger private sector
participation, if basic health service needs of the underserved population and
emerging health needs from an aging population and chronic diseases and
injuries, are to be met.
1.05      The Government is striving to implement a National Health Plan that
seeks to institute critical reforms in the sector.  A major objective is to
achieve a balance in the public health care system, continuing its traditional
focus on maternal and child health while responding more effectively to the
changing health needs of adults and the elderly. Cognizant of serious fiscal
constraints, however, the Government is resolved to increase efficiency in the
use of existing resources; provide incentives for cost-savings; delegate most
decisions on resource allocation to local goverrment levels; and stimulate the
increased participation of the private sector in the financing and delivery of
health services. Savings from planned efficiency measures and wider cost
recovery would allow the Government to meet changing needs without adding
significant pressure on limited budgetary resources.
1.06      One of the Government's major actions in 1990 was the adoption of a
tax reform to help finance program improvements in health and education. The
Government has also adopted as a national policy the recommendations of a
Study on the Reorientation of the Health Care System (financed by the Bank's
Project Preparation Facility), which would restructure the institutional
design aspect of health care delivery in order to improve capacity for the
prevention and resolution of health problems at lower levels of care. In
addition, the Government has sanctioned some initial operational changes, such
as extending the operating hours of primary health care facilities to attend
to the needs of working adults, increasing the proportion of paid (private)
beds in the public hospitals to augment their revenues, and improving the
monitoring and transparency of the ISAPREs (the private health insurance
groups) to assist in rationalization of consumer choice. Precise details of
the sector institutional restructuring, together with several other critical
functional and policy reforms, would be defined with the assistance of Bank
financing under this project. Tne key on-going and programmed activities to
help guide the Government's adoption of important sector reforms are discussed
in Section VI below and summarized in the Action Plan (Annex 3).
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Status
2.01      Population.  In recent decades, Chile has experienced profound
demographic changes. Total population in the country is estimated at 13
million in 1989, of which more than 85 percent live in urban areas, particu-
larly in the metropolitan areas of Santiago, Valpa.aiso-Vinia del Mar, and
Concepci6n. Population density is 18 per square kilometer, which places it
among Latin America's least densely populated countries. The crude birth rate
and crude death rates are, respectively, 23.4 and 5.8 per 1,000 population,



- 3 -
giving a natural population increase of 1.8 percent per year (Annex 1, Table
1). Age structure of the three main groups is as follows:
0-14 years: 30.5 percent;
15-64 years: 63.5 percent;
65 and over:   5.9 percent.
The dependency ratio therefore is 57.3 percent.
2.02      The total fertility rate (TFR) has fallen rapidly.  While in 1965
the average woman had about 5 children in her lifetime, by 1990 the TFR had
declined to 2.7 children. As a result of the sustained decline in the
fertility rate, in conjunction with an increase in life expectancy due to
medical advances and improved social conditions, the proportion of elderly
(people aged 60 years and older) to total population is growing rapidly. This
group now accounts for 8.6 percent of the population. It is estimated that by
2025 the proportion will increase to 17 percent.
2.03      Health Status.  The health of the Chilean population has improved
substantially, with life expectancy at birth increasing from about 58 years in
1970 to about 68 years in 1989 for males and from 64 years to 76 years for
women. The major cause of the decline in death rates has been a significant
reduction in the incidence and prevalence of infectious and communicable
childhood diseases. Infant mortality fell from 120 deaths per 1,000 live
births in 1960 to 17 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1989, comparing favorably
with most developed countries (Annex 1, Table 1). The maternal mortality rate
is 4.1 deaths per 10,000 live births, which is low compared to other develop-
ing countries. These advances in life expectancy have resulted from an inter-
play of a number of factors, among them reductions in birth rates; high
coverage of vaccination programs for vaccine preventable childhood diseases
(97 percent of polio, 94 percent for DPT, and 90 percent for measles);
increased access of pregnant women to prenatal care; greater number of births
attended by medit l professionals (98 percent in 1987); and provision of milk
and other supplemc,ntary foods to both pregnant and lactating women and
children. Large-scale investments to expand access to basic education,
potable water and sanitation, and improved housing conditions have also played
a role.
2.04       Rapid urbanization and industrialization, as well as significant
changes in lifestyles, have contributed to the emergence of a new set of
health problems. As a result, the mortality profile and the disease burden
have been altered from a developing country profile characterized by the
prevalence of infectious and communicable diseases of childhood to a developed
country profile that includes chronic diseases and injuries among an aging
population. Hypertension, smoking, fat intake, sedentary lifestyle, daily
ingestion of alcohol, occupational hazards, and pollution have become
important determinants of health and disease in Chile.
2.05      The principal causes of death in the 1980s were cardiovascular
diseases, cancer and accidents, accounting for about 58 percent of deaths, up
from 28 percent in the 1960s (Annex 1, Table 2). Among cardiovascular
diseases, ischemic heart is the leading cause of mortality, with an age-
adjusted death rate of 36 per 100,000 inhabitants in 1987, below the rates
observed in the United States (67) and in Canada (64), but two times higher
than those in other Latin American countries such as Ecuador and Peru. The



-4-
age-adjusted death rate from cancer in 1987 was 73 per 100,000 inhabitants, a
relatively high rate comparable to that of the United States or of Canada.
The age-adjusted death rate from accidents and violence in 1987 was 61 per
100,000 inhabitants, exceeding the rates of the United States (48), Argentina
(44), and Canada (38). In 1983, injuries, cancer, chronic liver disease, and
diseases of the heart accounted for 62 percent of total years of potentially
productive life lost for both sexes before age 65. In 1987, injuries and
cancer alone accounted for close to 40 percent of total years of potential
life lost.
2.06      In the future, as the Chilean population evolves toward an older
age structure, a consequence of declining fertility rates and the aging of the
large number of children wt.. were born during past periods of high fertility,
the relative importance of chronic diseases and injuries as principal causes
of mortality and morbidity will grow.
2.07      Nutrition Status.  The nutrition status of the Chilean population
is generally satisfactory. Although its economic development progressed
slowly over much of the past fewT decades, Chile significantly reduced mal-
nutrition (measured by weight-for-age) among children under the age of 6 years
from 15.9 percent in 1976 to 8.6 percent in 1988. The majority of malnutri-
tion in this age group is mild (i.e., 12.1 percent prevalence in 1976 and
7.7 percent in 1988); the prevalence of moderate and severe malnutrition is
among the lowest in the developing world affecting 0.8 and 0.1 percent,
respectively, of children under 6 years of age. Various evaluations of the
National Supplementary Feeding Program (PNAC) have indicated that integrated
health and nutrition interventions have had a significant impact in preventing
and controlling malnutrition. Reduced PNAC resources during the economic
recession of the early 1980s were followed by a slump in the figures for child
malnutrition and even those for child mortality, which had gradually been
declining since 1975. A different type of nutrition problem is now emerging
among adults due to the strong relationship between certain dietary habits
(e.g., consumption of saturated fats, sugars) and the incidence of chronic
conditions (e.g., atherosclerosis, obesity).
B. The Health Care System
2.08      Organized medicine in Chile dates back to the 1920s, when social
insurance arrangements were established to provide health services for blue
collar workers. With the creation of the National Health Service (NHS) in
1952, diverse public institutions were consolidated under a unified health
structure. Up to the late 1970s, health care in Chile was provided by four
distinct delivery systems. The two largest systems were the NHS, responsible
for providing preventive services to the entire population and free hospital
care to blue-collar workers and indigents, and the National Medical Service
for Employees (SERMENA), a government administered health insurance plan for
white-collar workers and their dependents, established in 1968. Both systems
covered approximately 85 percent of the population; about 10 percent of the
population was covered by private providers working on a fee-for-service
basis; and 5 percent by the armed forces medical program.
2.09      With the introduction of major institutional and financial reforms
beginning in 1979, the health care system was reorganized. The reforms
included: (i) decentralizing the old NHS through the establishment of a



National Health Service System (NHSS) comprised of 26 operational regional
autonomous services plus an environmental health unit in Santiago;
(ii) transferring responsibility, infrastructure and personnel for the
delivery of primary health care to the municipalities; (iii) creation of a
financial institution (FONASA) for the health sector; and (iv) establishing
the legislative framework and financing mechanisms to support the de"elopment
of prepaid private health insurance plans. The resulting institutional
structure, which is characterized by a complex combination of public and
private providers and financial agencies, is shown in Annex 1, Figure 1. The
present roles and relationships among the main sectoral institutions are
described in paras. 2.10-2.17 below.
2.10      The Ministry of Health (MOH).  With the abolition of the NHS, the
MOH assumed responsibility for the formulation of all public health policies,
definition of norms and standards applied on a nationwide basis, and broad
health planning and monitoring. In performing these functions, the MOH
coordinates and supervises the delivery and financing of health services
through its (i) Subsecretariat of Health, which provides overall direction to
the National Health Service System (para. 2.11) and (ii) four autoncmous
agencies: the National Health Fund (FONASA), the principal health care
financing mechanism in the country; the Central Supply Facility, in charge of
procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies to
public health facilities ordering directly from it, as well as milk and other
products provided via public health facilities by the National Supplementary
Feeding Program (PNAC); the Public Health Institute, responsible for quality
control of pharmaceuticals and food products; and the Superintendency of
ISAPRES, recently created to regulate the private health insurance market (see
the MOH Organization Chart in Annex 1, Figure 2).
2.11      The National Health Service System (NHSS).  The NHSS consists of 26
decentralized Health Service Areas (HSAs) plus one that administers the
Environmental Health Unit in Santiago. The HSAs, which are distributed across
the nation's 13 administrative regions, assumed the operational responsibili-
ties of the former NHS. HSAs do not necessarily correspond to other existing
administrative/political boundaries in the country; rather they were defined
on the basis of health catchment areas (i.e., factors such as population size,
existing health infrastructure, and local health status were taken into
consideration when defining the HSAs). HSAs are directly responsible for the
operation of all public hospitals in their respective geographical area, as
well as for tschnical oversight of the municipal-based primary care system
(para. 2.13).
2.12      Each HSA is an autonomous service run by a Director (generally a
physician), who reports directly to the Secretariat (SEREMI) of the respective
administrative region in which the HSA is located (the SEREMIS are composed of
staff from each major ministry who report directly to the intendente or
administrator of the region rather than to their respective ministry head-
quarters in Santiago). The Director, however, has some discretionary control
over all personnel and financial matters.
2.13      Municipalities.  Increased administrative decentralization in the
public system was achieved in 1987 by transferring the management of Rrimarv
health care services to the municipalities, including personnel recruitment
and management. The primary care network transferred to the municipalities
consists of urban and rural clinics, rural health posts, and rural medical



-6-
stations. In contrast to HSAs' personnel who are civil service employees,
staff operating these facilities are municipal employees governed by the labor
code applicable to the private sector. As stipulated in the 1985 Health Law,
all NHSS users are classified into one of four groups according to their
ability to pay for services rendered; those classified in categories A and B
as indigents or poor (76 percent of all beneficiaries under the FONASA system
in 1989) are not required to pay user charges in public health facilities.
2.14      National Health Fund (FONASA).  The Fund exercises the financial
functions previously under the responsibility of NHS and SERMENA. It is
responsible for administering and distributing financial resources of the
public system, including a mandatory 7 percent payroll deduction from all
active and pensioned salaried workers which is collected by INP (Instituto de
Normalizacion Previsional), as well as central government allocations for
health. FONASA finanices the HSAs through (i) allocations based on the number
and grades of personnel, and (ii) a fee for service mechanism (FAP) that takes
into account the amount and type of services rendered in the different
hospitals of the region. In principle, FONASA reimburses the municipalities
under a special billing scheme (FAPEM) for facility-specific primary care
services rendered. In practice, however, there are ceilings on the amount
reimbursed. Resources are also transferred under a scheme of incertives based
on selected biomedical and process performance and financial indicators.
2.15      Preferred Provider System (PPS).  All workers contributing to
FONASA have the option to select providers in the private sector under the PPS
arrangement. Private providers participating in the PPS are reimbursed
according to a fixed price system for specific medical services rendered.
FONASA pays only a portion of the required ambulatory or inpatient service;
the user (or beneficiary) pays the other part with a voucher purchased from
FONASA. The provider redeems the voucher for 100 percent of the pre-agreed
price at one of FONASA's offices, or at selected commercial banks. The PPS
copayment system varies by level of provider: users pay 50 percent of the
cost of service in level 1; 66.7 percent in level 2; and 75 percent in level
3. The more expensive the provider, the higher the copayment. Usually, new
physicians and general practitioners are clustered in level 1 and specialists
in level 3.
2.16      Private Providers.  In addition to physician offices and inpatient
facilities concentrated in large cities, and sickness funds (mutuales) for
administering work-injury benefits which are financed by an 0.8 percent
payroll deduction paid by employers, health care is provided in the private
sector through prepaid health insurance plans (ISAPRES). These plans offer
subscribers and their dependents both outpatient and inpatient care on a cost-
sharing basis via either their own clinics and/or diagnostic centers or
through contract with private providers or public facilities. ISAPRES
affiliates have to pay a monthly premium on top of the compulsory 7 percent
payroll deduction which salaried workers may have allocated to a health
insurance plan of their choice, and are required to pay between 10 percent and
40 percent of the cost of each service. The rapid growth of the ISAPRES in
recent years has been the result of the introduction of policies that have
encouraged private sector activity in the health sector. In 1981, a govern-
mental decree was enacted to allow ISAPRES to collect directly the obligatory
7 percent salary deduction of persons willing to purchase private health care
coverage. Additionally, the ISAPRES are exempted from paying taxes on some of



their income, and those who opt for private health insurance enjoy a tax
relief equivalent to ISAPRES premiums.
2.17      Although there is a multiplicity of health care providers in Chile,
the bulk of preventive and curative services is provided by the public sector
through a vast network of ambulatory facilities and hospitals. Official
figures indicate that in 1989, 67 percent of the population was covered by the
NHSS (including HSAs, municipalities, armed forces and state enterprises);
about 18 percent by the FONASA-administered PPS; and 15 percent by the ISAPRES
(Annex 1, Chart 1).
C. Health Care Resources and Utilization
2.18      Ambulatory Services.  Over the last two decades, with the priority
attached to the expansion of primary care, health investments shifted signi-
ficantly away from hospitals in favor of primary care facilities. As a
result, the number of primary care facilities increased substantially in urban
and rural areas. The primary care system that was transferred to the munici-
palities over the 1980s consists of four basic types of facilities: rural
medical stations, rural health posts, rural health centers, and urban health
centers. The rural medical stations, the most peripheral echelon, are
buildings used as temporary sites for periodic visits by medical teams. Rural
health posts, staffed with resident health auxiliaries, provide health
promotion and protection services to catchment areas of approximately 1,000
persons. Rural health centers (consultorios), located in communities of
between 2,000 and 5,000 population, offer round-the-clock nursing and medical
care for general health problems of limited complexity. Permanent profes-
sional and auxiliary staff operate these facilities. Urban health centers
provide ambulatory care for general health problems. These facilities have
fixed hours, generally providing care eight to nine hours daily, and the
composition of their staff varies with the size of the locality. There are
1,214 rural medical stations, 1,040 health posts, and 345 health centers
distributed across the country.
2.19      Secondary and tertiary care is provided in hospitals and their
outpatient departments (consultorios adosados de especialidades). While
primary health care facilities were constructed in recent decades according to
an MOH master plan, the current hospital network consists of diverse hospitals
inherited from municipalities and religious or welfare institutions--many of
the hospitals are close to a century old. Only a few additional hospitals
were built in the last four decades to complement the public sector network.
2.20      Hospital Services.  Public hospitals in Chile are classified under
four categories, ranging from Type 4 rural hospitals with minimnal technology
to Type I with the maximum technology available in the public sector. The
NHSS has 105 Type 4 facilities, which offer the first echelon of inpatient
care. Type 3 hospitals, of which there are 25, are located in small towns and
have only the four basic specialties (internal medicine, pediatrics,
obstetrics-gynecology, and general surgery). Dispersed across the major
cities are 30 Type 2 or general hospitals, which offer most medical and
surgical specialties and have intermediate technology. Tertiary care is
offered in 20 Type 1 facilities, which include all specialties and sub-
specialties. Some of these facilities are specialized hospitals, ouch as the
Pediatrics, Cancer, and Psychiatric Hospitals. Aside from outpatient
departments of hospitals, there are no free-standing medical centers for



- 8 -
ambulatory secondary or tertiary care (outpatient departments of hospitals are
usually the only providers of specialized care for low-income groups).
2.2!      In the private sector there are 190 hospitals (called clinicas),
encompassing both general and specialized inpatient facilities, and 1,069
ambulatory care centers for single or group medical practice. There are also
30 hospitals under the administration of universities, the armed forces or
state enterprises.
2.22      Consultations.  For the sector as a whole, the number of medical
consultations averaged 2.5 per person per year in 1989, a figure about half
the corresponding figure for developed countries (number and type of consul-
tations in the public health sector are shown in Annex 1, Table 3). The NHSS
reported 2.4 medical visits per person per year, and accounted for 75 percent
of all outpatient visits in the country. By comparison, the ISAPRES had an
average of 3.5 physician visits per beneficiary, showing a higher per capita
use of services in this system. Overall, emergency visits in outpatient
dep,krtments of hospitals represent a striking 30 percent of all consultations,
indicating that although geographic coverage of health care in Chile is good,
access may be less adequate.
2.23      Hospital Performance.  The number of public hospital beds, both
short and long term, has remained nearly stable at a ratio of 2.5 beds per
1,000 population. As opposed to other countries, Chile never went through a
period of rapid hospital expansion. On the contrary, between 1981 and 1989,
the number of public beds decreased from 33,692 to 32,818 (Annex 1, Table 4A).
It is only in the 1980s that the private sector grew significantly, adding
another 0.8 beds per 1,000 population, to reach an overall total for the
country of 3.3 beds per 1,000 population. This bed ratio is below the ratio
of 5.1 in the United States and 5.0 in Argentina and Uruguay. The hospital
occupancy rate in the public sector is a low 75 percent; this figure may be
misleading, however, as a number of available beds may not be operational
because of the deteriorated condition of hospital wards or inoperative
equipment. Due to the larger, older and tech-nically outdated nature of most
public hospitals and their more complex case mix (i.e., patients with more
severe illnesses), the average length of stay in these facilities is 7.9 days
(Annex 1, Table 5A). Lack of a secondary and tertiary outpatient care
infrastructure in the public sector also contributes to a long average length
of stay in public hospitals; unlike private hospitals, public hospitals cannot
carry out pre-admission tests on a less expensive, ambulatory care basia.
Recent data from the MOH indicate that the average length of stay in private
facilities is 7 days; ISAPRES data show an average length of stay of 4-5 days.
The public sector presently has almost 75 percent of total national hospital
bed capacity and accounts for an estimated 90 percent of all hospitalizations
and 52 percent of surgical interventions.
2.24      Medical Technology.  The priority attached to the development of
primary health care in recent years neglected the public hospital network.
Amid limited resources, both new construction and equipping of hospitals, as
well as modernization and maintenance of existing hospitals, was virtually
abandoned in favor of expansion and upgrading of primary care facilities. As
a result, physical plant and equipment within the hospitals deteriorated.
Negligible investments led to a failure to adopt new technologies, even in
such high demand areas as care for high-risk newborn infants and trauma, as
well as in outpatient departments. Many hospitals suffer from antiquated or



- 9 
inoperative equipment, even in such basic areas as X-ray machines and
incubators. This obsolescence is not limited to medical equipment, but also
affects supportive services such as kitchens, communications, and information
systems. In addition, most hospitals suffer from serious defects in their
physical plants, plumbing, heating/cooling systems, and sanitary systems. It
is estimated that the cumulative effect of these limitations decreases bed
utilization across the country by 20 percent. This is further evidenced by
the low bed occupancy rate in some facilities despite the pressing demand for
beds (i.e., beds often remain empty because of incidental reasons such as the
disrepair of buildings, or a breakdown of the heating or plumbing systems).
2.25      Health Manpower.  With six medical schools, Chile graduates appro-
ximately 600 physicians per year. The total number of physicians in the
country is close to 14,000, which is about one physician per 1,000 population
(public sector health personnel are shown in Annex 1, Table 6). This ratio is
two to three times below the ratio of developed countries, but considerably
exceeds the average for lower middle income economies. The most important
feature of the physician labor market is the geographic maldistribution of
physicians. In general, most of the physicians, particularly those with
specialized training, are concentrated in the few major urban areas. The
rural scholarship program for young physicians who have served three or four
years in rural areas has been an important vehicle to attract qualified young
doctors to underserved areas. Another striking aspect of Chile's physician
market is the low number of general or family practitioners. Indeed, it is
estimated that only 7.5 percent of the nation's physicians are general
practitioners. In Santiago, close to 90 percent of all physicians practicing
in the city are specialists or subspecialists. The growing supply of
specialists is due largely to the specialized orientation of medical education
and the lack of stringent standards regulating the clinical specialties.
There are, however, acute shortages of some medical specialists and health
technicians such as ophthalmologists, radiologists, and renal and hematology
specialists.
2.26      The number of dentists is about 5,000, or one dentist for 2,383
population. Here, too, more than 60 percent of the dentists are concentrated
in Santiago.
2.27      The total nurse population is approximately 3,500, and the ratio of
population per nurse decreased from one nurse per 600 persons in 1965 to a
ratio of one nurse per 370 persons in 1984. Although Chile's ratio of
population per nurse is better than the average for middle income economies,
the country presently has a shortage of nurses. This is attributable in part
to the very rapid expansion of the primary care system. As the number of
available nurses fell below the evolving needs of the primary care system,
their functions were systematically delegated to auxiliary nurses. The
simultaneous growth of the ISAPRES has provided an alternative source of
employment for the relatively few graduate nurses. At present, fewer than 300
nurses graduate each year, or half the number at the beginning of the 1980s.
D.  Health Care Expenditures and Financing of Services
2.28      Total health care spending in Chile as a percentage of GDP has
expanded from 3.3 percent in the 1960s, and 4 percent in the 1970s, to an
estimated 5 percent to 6 percent in the late 1980s. Chile's share of GDP
spent on health care is as high as that in several upper middle-income



- 10 -
developing countries (5.2 percent), but below that of lower-income OECD
countries (7.2 percent). Total public and private health expenditures are
approximately US$1.2 billion per year. Estimated per capita expenditures
ratlge from US$84 to US$101, far lower than is the case in industrial countries
(e.g., less than 6 percent of Canada's and 4 percent of US per capita expendi-
tures for health care). It is estimated that public expenditures in health
are 2.2 percent of GDP or 42 percent of total health expenditures, while
private health expenditures account for about 3.9 percent of GDP or 58 percent
of total expenditures. Official figures indicate that annual expenditures per
beneficiary in the public sector amount to approximately US$44; in the FONASA-
administered PPS US$55; and in the ISAPRES US$160. Overall central government
contributions to health (aporte fiscal) represent about 7 percent of total
government expenditures.
2.29      Sources of Funds.  The MOH depends on the following revenue sources
which are collected and administered by FONASA (Annex 1, Figure 3 and
Table 7): (i) cotizaciones or transfers generated by the mandatory 7 percent
payroll deduction from all active and pensioned salaried workers, which in
1990 accounted for 45 percent of total income, thus surpassing the fiscal
contribution that historically had been the major source of public health
financing; (ii) Treasury contributions (aporte fiscal), which contributed
39 percent of revenues in 1990 (a significant decline from its 1980 level of
55 percent); (iii) sale of vouchers to FONASA affiliates for selective
services rendered by private providers under ti . PPS mechanism, representing
8 percent of revenues; (iv) fees from the sale of services in public facili-
ties, representing 5 percent; and (v) others, accounting for the remaining
3 percent. In addition to the MOH resources, capital investments in the
health sector, particularly for primary care facilities and rural hospitals,
are financed through the Ministry of the Interior-administered National
Regional Development Fund (FNDR) and the Social Fund (SF) of the Office of the
President.
2.30      Uses of Funds.  About 95 percent of total public expenditures in
health (i.e., MOH and FNDR) in 1990 consisted of recurrent expenditures
(Annex 1, Table 8). More than two-thirds of these went to salaries; the rest
was accounted for by the PPS, PNAC, subsidies paid for illness of workers, and
other transfers and payments. Meanwhile, MOH-financed investments (construc-
tion and equipment for hospitals), which practically came to a halt in the
JA980s, represented only 2 percent of public health expenditures. The average
investment in the HSAs between 1986-90 hardly exceeded US$10 million per year,
a major cause of the accumulated deterioration and obsolescence of hospital
infrastructure and equipment in the last decade. In contrast, a strong
infusion of investment funds from the IDB-financed FNDR projects has helped
expand and update the primary health care network nationwide (para. 5.05).
FNDR health investments averaged about US$19.5 million per year in the last
five years and accounted for 3 percent of total public health expenditure in
1990. It is estimated that FNDR financing will meet the investment require-
ments of the primary care network in the next five years.
2.31      Hospital Financing.  Chilean hospitals are financed in part accord-
ing to production criteria adopted in the late 1970s. Financing varies
according to the number and type of services rendered, with a one month lag in
reimbursements from FONASA. FONASA reimburses hospitals through FAP (Factura-
cion por Atencion Prestada Integral), a fee-for-service schedule. FAP
includes a list of preestablished prices for more than 2,000 medical



- 11 -
interventions (prices have been determined on the basis of the average costs
in one public and two private hospitals, as well as the opinions of
specialists). The only unregulated hospital cost is the daily fee charged to
private patients for the use of hospital beds (excluding medical services
related thereto) for which hospital authorities can set their own prices. Up
until July 1991, MOH's regulations dictated that hospitals may use only
5 percent of their beds for treating private patients in special wards or
esiosnado.  Recognizing the hospitals' need for additional revenue, the MOH
has raised the limit to 10 percent of each hospital's total number of beds.
2.32      In addition, FONASA pays as a budget allocation to the HSAs all
wages and salaries, part of investment, and other fixed costs of the
hospitals. Because personnel and investments costs are covered directly, the
reimbursed FAP amount is a percentage of PPS level 1 prices, and it varies by
type of service, with higher percentages for more complicated procedures.
There are no ceilings on the maximum level of reimbursement a given hospital
can receive from FONASA. Hospitals obtain additional income from fees charged
to private patients and from service copayments paid on a preestablished
sliding scale by beneficiaries of the public health system that are classified
by FONASA as nonindigent (classes C and D).
2.33      Financial information on the performance of Chilean hospitals is
provided by a hospital reporting system called SIGMO. However, data collected
on average costs per service category are not utilized by hospital administra-
tors as a management tool to identify areas for efficiency gains, or for
comparisons with other hospitals that have similar patient mix.
2.34      Primary Care Financing.  Municipalities are reimbursed on a
facility-specific basis for the amount and type of services rendered, based on
FAPEM (Facturacion por Atencion Prestada en Establecimientos Municipalizados),
a detailed, preestablished fee system. FAPEM includes 15 categories of
primary care services, and precise levels of reimbursement per service within
each category are delineated. In practice, however, each facility is subject
to a monthly ceiling on the total amount of fees that could be reimbursed by
FAPEM, regardless of the level or mix of services provided. The ceiling on
expenditures was set initially at the amount the municipality expended in
1982. Thus, facilities that had been receiving the largest transfers prior to
imposition of the ceiling in 1983 continued to be favored in resource
allocation. Periodically these ceilings have been adjusted according to
changes in the Public Sector Wage Incex; these adjustments, however, have
lagged considerably behind the Consumer Price Index, widening the gap between
the financial deficit that poorer mun:lcipalities with high health care demands
faced compared to richer municipalities. Additional revenue to finance the
operation of the primary health care network comes from supplementary
transfers and incentives paid by FONASA and from municipal budgets.
2.35      FAPEM transfers are expected to cover the costs of all goods ard
services, personnel, and maintenance expenditures incurred in the process of
delivering service at a minimum acceptable standard. Investment in infra-
structure and equipment is a municipal responsibility. To this end,
municipalities can apply for funds from the FNDR or the SF.



- 12
III.  HEALTH AND HOSPITAL SITUATION IN METROPOLITAN SANTIAGOMS)
3.01      Contrary to its name, MS covers rural as well as urban areas.  It
extends far boyond the city limits and covers an extended area of 10,000 sq.
km., reaching 50 km. north, east and south of Santiago and over 70 km. to the
West. MS is comprised of 34 municipalities that are fairly decentralized.
They each have their own mayor and municipal council, collect local taxes, and
run social services, including primary health care facilities.
3.02      MS total population of 5.3 million in 1989, or about 40 percent of
the country's population, is projected to rise to 5.8 million in 1995 as the
result of the growth of satellite cities and neighboring rural communes.
About 10 percent of the population is rural and is partly scattered through
the Andean and coastal mountains. A recent study has shown that two different
socioeconomic groups coexist in MS: the high income dwellers of Northeast
Santiago and the low-income population of the other districts. Marked
differences separate these two groups in terms of income, employment, family
composition, housing, health and nutrition, sanitation, and overall quality of
life.
3.03      For reasons of size, manageability and distribution of municipali-
ties, MS was divided into six health service areas (HSAs): North (600,000
pop.); West (1 million pop.); Central (700,000 pop.); East (1 million pop.);
Southeast (1 million pop.); and South (1 million pop.). Each of these areas
generally is demarcated by major thoroughfares radiating from downtown
Santiago, with their extension corresponding to the spatial dispersion of the
population.
A. Health Status
3.04      Notwithstanding Chile's substantial achievements in improving the
health status of the population, behind the national averages are wide
variations between the health status of different population groups. When
infant mortality rates are disaggregated by MS's 6 HSAs, variations appear
reflecting social disparities, with the highest rates in the relatively low-
income Metropolitan West HSA (18.5/1,000), Metropolitan North HSA (16.7/
1,000), and Metropolitan South HSA (15.9/1,000). The vast majority of infant
mortality occurs in the perinatal period. Within Metropolitan North, West,
and South HSAs, 14.2, 12.4, and 10.7, respectively, out of every 1,000 new-
borns die before reaching 7 days of age. Variations also exist in the
maternal mortality rate (MMR), ranging from 0.5/10,000 live births in affluent
Metropolitan East HSA to 4.9/10,000 live births in poorer Metropolitan North
HSA. The rate of maternal deaths from miscarriages/abortions varies
considerably between HSAs in Santiago, with rates above the national average
(1.6/10,000 live births) observed in Metropolitan Southeast HSA (2.7/10,000)
and Metropolitan Central HSA (2.6/10,000). Chronic diseases and injuries are
leading causes of death in all 6 HSAs.
B. Public Hospital Network
3.05      The MS has 28 public hospitals, of which there are 17 Type 1 and 2
facilities. These hospitals have 70 percent of the total number of beds in
the region. The 1.9 ratio of public hospital beds per 1,000 population in MS
is much lower than the country's average ratio of 2.4 (Annex 1, Table 9).



- 13 -
Most MS hospitals are over 60 years old (Annex 1, Tables 10-11); little
investment has taken place over the last 20 years.
3.06      Reflecting wide disparities in health service availability, access
to public hospitals varies greatly within MS (Annex 1, Tables 12-13). The
Metropolitan North HSA has a ratio of 1.5 beds per 1,000 population; the
number of outpatient visits per person per year was 1.3 in 1989; its two
specialized pediatric and psychiatric hospitals provide services nationwide;
its Type 2 hospital is old and under-equipped; and its Type 4 hospital is
small. Most of the secondary care and all tertiary care needed in this HSA is
referred to other HSA facilities, and less than 10 percent of its total
population has access to private health coverage.
3.07      The MetroRolitan Southeast HSA also serves a poor population, has
extensive rural areas, and access to hospital facilities is difficult. This
HSA, which has one tuberculosis hospital and one Type l hospital, has a severe
shortage of beds with a ratio of 1 bed per 1,000 population, and provided a
very low 0.7 consultations per person per year in 1989.
3.08      The West HSA, with a third of its population living in rural areas,
has a good balance between hospitals of different levels of complexity (one
Type 1, two Type 2, two Type 3, and one specialized trauma hospital that
serves the entire region). However, it still is short of beds, with a bed
population ratio of 1.7 per 1,000. In 1989, it performed 1.2 consultations
per person per year.
3.09      The Metropolitan Central HSA, which covers downtown Santiago,
occupies a midway position in terms of hospital resources with 2 beds per
1,000 population (it has one Type 1 and one Type 2 hospital). However, this
HSA performed only 0.8 consultations per person per year in 1989.
3.10      The Metropolitan South HSA is slightly better equipped with one
Type I hospital, one Type 2 hospital, and two Type 3 hospitals. It has a
ratio of 2.2 beds per 1,000 population, and consultations per person per year
reached a ratio of 1.1 in 1989.
3.11      In contrast, the Metropolitan East HSA covers a relatively well-
endowed, high-income area. More than half of the population receive medical
care from private providers. In addition, from the public sector, this HSA
relies on a large Type 1 hospital, one Type 2 hospital, a geriatric hospital,
and three specialized hospitals for rehabilitation, neurosurgery, and chest
surgery, respectively. The public sector's bed population ratio is 2 per
1,000, and only 0.8 consultations per person per year were performed in 1989.
This is explained in part by the preference and ability of this HSA's
population to use private hospital facilities.
3.12      Hospitals in Metropolitan Santiago play a special role in thet they
receive patients from three different sources: (i) referred patients from
other regions of the country, particularly for specialized treatments,
extensive surgery, and all treatments still at the research or development
stage, account for 20 percent of admissions; (ii) patients who are not
referred from other regions, but who have relatives or acquaintances in the
city and manage to be admitted to hospitals in the metropolitan area,
represent another 15 percent of all admissions; and (iii) patients from the



- 14 -
MS, routinely referred by their local health services, make up the remaining
65 percent of admissions.
3.13      In MS, the already limited bed capacity is further affected by the
state of disrepair and obsolescence of many public hospitals. These hospitalk
have evolved from successive additions, extensions, and rehabilitations made
over the years. As a result, some facilities are a mosaic of recent and old
buildings, modern and outdated equipment. In various hospitals, some wards
have been decommissioned as unsafe, while others are below normal standards
for the type of services performed in such facilities. Usually, support
services such as water supply and heating, sterilization, laundry and kitchen
services, as well as sanitary facilities, are in serious disrepair. Discon-
tent over the low quality of hospital services is widespread among low and
middle-income groups who are dependent on public hospitals.
IV. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. Issues
4.01      In Chile, widespread basic health service coverage by and large has
been achieved over the last four decades. The challenge in the future years
will be improving the quality of care, managing expenditures, and better
utilizing ex4sting resources. Broad reviews of the health sector have
highlighted five critical issues: lack of complementarity between the
different levels of health care; low internal efficiency in the public
hospital network; distortions in the financing of health services; weak
institutional capability in the MOH and its autonomous agencies; and the need
to develop further public/private linkages to optimize the use of the limited
fiscal resources of the sector.
4.02      Articulation Between Levels of Care.  The pyramidal referral flow
between levels of care does not work efficiently. Poor coordination and
complementarity between primary care facilities and hospital services are
major functional defects of the public health system. In particular,
important constraints to optimal utilization patterns in the system, including
limited availability of ambulatory secondary and tertiary facilities,
contributes to inadequate backup for the primary care level and continued high
dependence on emergency care at hospitals. Long wa_ting lines for obtaining
care.and inconvenient clinic hours for the working population at the primary
care level aggravates this situation as highlighted by the aforenoted 30
percent of medical consultations being of an "emergency" nature. Failure of
the HSAs to fulfill their monitoring and supervision responsibilities over the
primary care facilities that were placed under the local authority of the
municipalities added to the dissociation between levels of care. In addition,
the FAP-FAPEM reimbursement mechanisms have had adverse effects on the
referral of patients to and from hospitals (see para. 4.08). The lack of a
fluid referral of patients threatens the credibility of the entire public
health system.
4.03      Internal Efficiency in Hospitals.  Low internal efficiency
characterizes the pablic hospital network and results largely from the
deteriorated condition of its facilities, including buildings and electro-
mechanical equipment, medical equipment and support services. In MS, two
natural disasters in the mid-1980s worsened this situation. The 1985
earthquake damaged all hospitals, especially those in the Metropolitan South



- 15 -
HSA. The most evident damages were repaired with the support of a special
fund and donations. Over the following years, the need for miscellaneous
repairs rose significantly, particularly for physical infrastructure such as
roofs and basements, as well as for plumbing and heating systems that were
left unrepaired. This problem was compounded by the 1988 flood, which further
deteriorated sewer systems and all hospital infrastructure located in the
basements, such as furnaces, laundry, and storage rooms.
4.04      Hospital administrative practices are also outdated and impede the
adequate combination of input factors to extract good quality services from
limited resources. A wide range of modern management skills and systems are
lacking. Although much health and financial data are collected, much of it is
not oriented to management requirements (e.g., there is a lack of information
about the costs of services to determine the amount of resources that could be
released if provision of some health services were reduced or fees were
adjusted as appropriate to generate financing to meet other priorities).
Additionally, data processing and analysis are done manually in most hospitals
hampering the timely flow of information for decision-making and monitoring
performance in the provision of services. Another element affecting
efficiency is the lack of establikhed performance motivation programs for
increasing the productivity of both medical and non-medical staff.
4.05      Inefficient use of resources in public hospitals is exacerbated by
limited resources. This is severe in three areas: (i) emergency care for
round-the-clock assistance for accidents and other medical emergencies, due to
the lack of some technolc,ies which are of increasing importance to respond to
current patient mix (e.g , trauma cases, neonatal r'oblems); (ii) outpatient
departments, because of insufficient equipment and staffing, especially weak
diagnostic capabilities, as evidenced by waiting lists and slow processing of
patients; and (iii) hospital admissions, due to the inadequate capacity of
hospitals to provide timely secondary and tertiary inpatient care,
particularly for specialized services, such as surgery, orthopedics, and
cancer treatment.
4.06      Health Financing.  Public health financing in Chile faces three
critical sets of issues: the under-investment of the public hospital network;
the distortions introduced by the application of the FAP and FAPEM resource
allocation mechanisms; and limitations of copayment arrangements in the public
sector to mobilize additional resources.
4.07      The general deterioration of the public hospital network was caused
by a decrease in capital investments and maintenance budgets over the last two
decades despite population growth. Budget figures for the last decade show
declining allocations for hospital investments, maintenance, operating
budgets, and even staffing (see para. 2.30). This situation has translated
into acute short-ages in equipment and supplies, insufficient maintenance, low
staff morale and decreasing quality of services in the hospitals. Hospitals
continue to operate due to the competence and dedication of staff as well as
the ingenuity of hospital directors and administrators. However, the network
has been stretched to its limits. Now it is recognized that substantial
investments may have to be made to bring hospitals up to an acceptable
standard of care.
4.08      The fee-for-service systems adopted for reimbursing hospitals (PAP)
and municipal facilities (FAPEM) were intended to direct money to where



- 16 -
services were actually being provided, and also to create incentives for cost
containment and preventive services. The latter is still partly effective for
the hospitals, but it has been eroded since FAP payments have not kept pace
with inflation and a larger share of hospital revenues has come from other
sources, including direct, supulementary central budget appropriations. In
effect, these supplementary appropriations recentralize financial decision-
making, partly nullifying the decentralization attained by the fee-for-service
system. For nnicipalities, the incentive to hold down unit costs is
completely gone because ceilings were imposed on FAPEM transfers, converting
them into block grants. In addition, FAPEM ceilings began to be paid even to
municipalities which had not provided enough services to reach the ceiling.
Two other failings can be attributed to FAP and FAPEM. First, they set fees
in such a way as to encourage provision of curative over preventive care; and
second, they reimburse on the basis of each individual procedure rather than
for treatment or for management of specific health conditions; thus they may
encourage multiple visits when not required as well as promote overuse of any
treatment that is priced high, and under-use if prices do not cover costs. In
addition, municipalities have an incentive to refer patients to secondary and
tertiary facilities instead of treating them at the primary level because they
can reduce their expenditures without affecting their revenue.
4.09      Copayments for public sector services range from zero in the lowest
two income classes to 25 percent in the third and 50 percent in the top class.
Three-quarters of users are now in the zero-payment categories. This is due
to a combination of three factors: the fact that higher income groups do not
uc.e public services, the system fails to adjust for real income boundaries,
and there is leeway in classifying patients. This situation hampers efforts
to mobilize additional resources for financing health care.
4.10      Institutional Capacity.  Managerial problems at the MOH and the
HSAs constrain sector development. Planning capability is weak, particularly
in regard to multi-year planning that responds to national policies and norms
while recognizing the specificity of local conditions. There is also a
limited capability for harmonizing short-term investment and operational needs
with longer-term investment requirements. This situation is aggravated by the
shortage of staff with training and experience in strategic planning and
budgeting.
4.11      The MOH and the HSAs in general do not exercise effective manage-
ment control. At the central level of the MOH, where detailed technical norms
and standards are developed for all public health services in the country,
there is a lack of sufficient personnel to monitor compliance with norms and
standards in HSAs except through reviews of essentially quantitative reports.
In addition, there is no organized and systematic effort to monitor and assess
compliance from the point of view of quality of services. To date, much of
the transfer of administrative responsibility to HSAs remains more theoretical
than real. HSAs have limited latitude to adjust MOH norms and standards for
potentially important variations at the local level, and there generally are
not enovgh trained staff to supervise activities at the service level. While
super;sion of activities at facilities under the administrative jurisdiction
_; the HSA is good, most HSAs have far too few staff for adequate supervision
of primary care at the municipal level despite their actual responsibility to
do 8O.



- 17 -
4.12      In terms of personnel management, a major issue is the need to
determine the mix of staff required in light of emerging changes within the
health care system (the total number of fixed-term employees at the MOH and
the HSAs is 57,000; in recent years, the major change in human resources was
at the primary level, where all 14,000 health services staff were separated
from the MOH and employed by the municipalities). Another issue is lack of
adequate incentives to ensure that qualified personnel serve in isolated or
difficult areas, or to encourage staff to be more productive. The need for
more training opportunities for staff is another issue, since new skills are
required to meet the changing shape and character of the health system--both
in terms of medical expertise and management skills at various levels of the
system. Training opportunities would be incentives and thus can help the
health services achieve other objectives such as facilitating placement of
qualified staff in rural areas. Training is also important to provide career
paths in the sector. The most difficult personnel-related issues are probably
those found among staff working at the primary-care level. Problems include
the lack of job security in municipal employment relative to employment in the
MOH and HSAs; the absence of visible career paths in health implicit in
employment by a municipality, especially smaller or poorer ones; limited
opportunities for further training, given that many municipalities do not, or
cannot provide financial subsidies to staff for this purpose; and inadequate
compensation, benefits, and working conditions in poorer municipalities.
4.13      Chile has a comprehensive national health information system, which
is well established for collecting, consolidating, and forwarding information
to higher levels of the MOH. Detailed demographic, epidemiologic, health
resources, and health services data are collected at all levels of the system.
Additionally, extensive financial data are compiled by FONASA on services
rendered and reimbursements provided. Little effective use of this large body
of data is made, however. There are several issues that need to be addressed
regarding the system with a view to having it serve planning, management, and
evaluation purposes more effectively. In general, there needs to be an
assessment of information currently collected to determine whether some of it
is unnecessary or of low priority particularly given enormous staff time
demands to complete numerous reports, reducing in effect available patient
time; to identify information gaps; to judge the accuracy, timeliness and
usefulness of the information; to analyze whether the inforamation is properly
integrated (e.g., interrelation of activity data and cost data); to determine
whether available information is used for planning and management purposes at
various levels of the system; and to identify resource needs to ensure that
the information system performs appropriately.
4.14      Central Supvlv Facility.  The "Central," an autonomous agency of
the MOH, functions as a wholesaler, purchasing pharmaceuticals and other
medical supplies which it later sells to public health facilities. The
Central, however, is not the sole nor always the predominant supplier as all
public facilities can purchase from private suppliers. It is the principal
supplier of milk products for distribution via the PNAC. The Central
publishes a list of prices for supplies of products which are available each
month, and circulates it to health facilities so that they may place orders.
Hospitals and primary care municipalities may buy from the Central, but are
free to purchase elsewhere. Over the last decade, various aspects of the
Central's modus operandi have served as disincentives to its use, particularly
for pharmaceutical purchases, and especially by resource strained municipali-
ties. Among them are: (i) rigid procurement procedures, with facilities



- 18 -
required to submit orders according to a fixed calendar; (ii) lack of credit
or acceptance of partial payments; (iii) frequent changes in the mix of
products available, hence facilities cannot depend on continuity of supply of
their preferred products; and (iv) prices are higher than private suppliers
(this is largely due to obvious inefficiencies arising from the Central's
costly methods of procurement, particularly local competitive bidding from
local affiliates of international firms or through third-party local
importers). A key issue now is whether the Central as presently designed
adequately meets public health system needs, especially in light of the
regionalization and decentralization of health services delivery. Indeed,
given the geographic configuration of Chile, whether a "central" supplier
located in Santiago is the most cost-effective distribution mechanism is not
clear. Alternatives, however, have not been carefully explored to date.
4.15      National Institute of Public Health (ISP).  The Institute is
responsible for most matters related to pharmaceuticals, including
registration, quality surveillance, and control of manufacture. It is also in
charge of the control of food products for domestic consumption.
Additionally, the Institute produces vaccines and other biological products,
and functions as a reference laboratory, as a coordinator of public health
laboratories, and enivironmental control, and as a research and training
center. Numerous constraints exist, however, to the Institute fulfilling its
intended role because of inadequate physical infrastructure, outdated
technology, insufficient staff, and lack of modern management and information
systems. This situation is exacerbated by poor coordination between the
Institute and the network of related institutes, research centers, and
laboratories throughout the country.
4.16      PNAC.  This program, initially launched in 1937 as the national
milk program, is widely credited with contributing to Chile's success 4n
reducing infant mortality and malnutrition. It covers approximately 1.2
million people (80 percent of infants under one year of age and 70 percent of
preschoolers 2 to 5 years of age, as well as pregnant and lactating women).
They receive monthly rations differentiated by beneficiary age and nutritional
status, and distributed via the public health system. PNAC's budget is about
US$56 million or the equivalent of US$47 subsidy per beneficiary per year.
Existing data consistently indicate that program benefits are most heavily
concentrated among lower income groups. Nevertheless, program data also
suggest that considerable room exists for operational improvements that could
reduce program costs. Among them are: (i) improvements to targeting to
concentrate on groups at highest risk of malnutrition, recognizing the desired
preventive orientation of the program but its relatively high costs;
(ii) product development to ensure these goods are accepted by intended
beneficiaries; (iii) improved nutrition surveillance data for effective
program management; and (iv) improvements in procurement practices for milk
powder to minimize the cost of the program.
4.17      Public/Private Linkages.  Formal public/private linkages in the
sector occur in three different areas: (i) the sale of services by public
hospitals to ISAPRES at cost, particularly for the use of private rooms
(pensionados) for inpatient care of their affiliates; (ii) the purchase of
private health services by FONASA for PPS beneficiaries; and (iii) the
regulatory role exercised by the recently-created Superintendency of ISAPRES
for improving the operation of the private health insurance market. Issues in
these areas include the following: how to increase efficiency and equity in



- 19 -
the provision and financing of both public and private health services; how to
mobilize additional resources for health; and how to improve consumer choice.
In view of these concerns, the challenge is to strengthen and expand the
linkage among subsectors with the goal of further developing complementarity
in and substitutability, as appropriate, of public and private health care
provision.
B. Government Sectoral Strategy
4.18      A high priority on the development agenda of the Government is to
improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and quality of health services
rendered, particularly to the poor. One of its major objectives is to achieve
a balanced health care delivery system, i.e., responsive to changing and newly
emerging health needs of adults and the elderly while maintaining adequate
coverage of programs for maternal and child health. Cognizant of serious
fiscal constraints, the Government is resolved to increase efficiency in the
use of existing resources; provide incentives for cost-savings by delegating
most decisions on resource allocation to local levels; and stimulate the
increased participation of the private sector in the financing and delivery of
health services. Savings from efficiency measures and wider cost-recovery
would allow the Government to meet changing needs without adding significant
pressure on limited budgetary resources.
4.19      The principles of the Government's health sector development
strategy are:
(a) To guarantee the basic right of the population to attain and
preserve physical and mental health through adequate access to good
quality health services.
(b) To promote aggressively the complementary roles of public and
private providers in the health sector. The public sector will
continue to be in charge of defining and supervising health
policies, norms, plans and programs. It will continue to finance
and provide health services via the public health system to those
without adequate access to alternative providers, particularly the
poor. The Government will intensify its efforts to create a
conducive environment for increased private sector participation in
the sector, specifically in the design, financing and delivery of
health services consistent with and complementary to public sector
health programs.
(c) To strengthen the decentralization of the health sector begun in the
1980s. The municipalization of primary health care will be carefully
reviewed for improving community participation in the system, coordina-
tion between different levels of care, and career development of health
personnel serving local communities.
4.20      The Government's actions in the sector are guided by a National
Health Plan. The main objectives and strategies include the following:
(a) Reorientation of the Healeths tem.  The public health system will
continue to give emphasis to cost-effective health promotion and disease
prevention programs and will aim to increase the quality of all levels
of care. Its primary health care program will be expanded to respond to



- 20 -
mounting adult health needs. This orientation will stress, amcang
others: (i) strengthening the capacity of facilities closer to the
community, particularly at the secondary care level, to resolve general
health problems; (ii) improving the referral system between levels of
care; (iii) general upgrading of outpatient and inpatient hospital care;
(iv) promoting healthy lifestyles through health and nutrition educa-
tion; and (v) improving the quality of health information with the
establishment of a better epidemiological surveillance network.
(b) Human Resources Policy. The Government will build on the country's
strong foundation of good quality human resources in the sector.
Appropriate incentive mechanisms will be instituted to minimize the
existinig geographical and skill imbalances of medical, managerial, and
administrative persornnel. Training programs will be introduced to
ensure that staff will be responsive to local and changing epidemio-
logical needs of the population. Also, factors affecting the motivation
and career mobility of the medical personnel will be reviewed.
(c) Financial Resources Policy. The Government will reform the FAP and
FAPEM financial allocation mechanisms and the health services pricing
system to eliminate the inefficiency problems discussed above. The
analytical studies on the health sector financing problems, started in
November 1990, have come up with a number of qualitative proposals
(discussed in para. 6.20) which have now been accepted by the Govern-
ment. The quantification of the scope and resource requirements, as
well as the detailed implementation design of each of these proposals,
will be financed under the proposed project. These proposals are now
being dissected and debated in academic and government circles in Chile.
The results of these public discussions are expected to influence the
nature of the reforms.
(d) Physical Resources Policy. The rehabilitation and upgrading of
health facilities, and the provision of resources for their appropriate
maintenance, will be given high priority. The Government will also
emphasize the adoption of cost-effective investments. Along these
lines, the adoption of new technology to respond better to emerging
health problems will be reviewed using very strict cost-effectiveness
criteria.
(e) Pharmaceuticals and other Medical Supplies Procurement Policies.
The Government will streamline the policies and procedures for the
purchase and distribution of medical supplies, particularly pharmaceu-
ticals, and food supplements. The Government would like to ensure that
even with the decentralization of primary health care services,
economies of scale and quality can be assured in the purchase of these
inputs.
(f) Strengthening of the Public/Private Mix. The interrelat:lon between
the public and private sectors will be strengthened by establishing
joint ventures and/or sale of services. The ISAPRE law is being
reviewed and will eventually be modified to encourage the development of
a fully transparent private insurance market.
(8) Envirormental Health Policy. The Government is stressing the need
to design incentive mechanisms and education campaigns to reduce the



- 21 -
sources of air and water contamination which affect adversely the health
of the Chilean population. Along these lines, the Government aims to
improve the normative, monitoring, and supervision capacity of the
Environmental Health Service Area based in Santiago.
4.21      While the Government seems clear about its development goals,
strategies, and general policies in the sector, substantial work remains to
define the detailed implementing instruments and action programs to be
adopted.  The Government has set out a complex, ambitious sector reform
program along the lines discussed above.  However, the effort of carefully
analyzing the alternative solutions is in danger of being undermined by the
widely recognized crisis in the hospital system. The lack of visible and
meaningful actions to address the continuing deterioration of public hospitals
is beginning to affect the public credibility of the MOH. For this reason,
the Government has asked the World Bank for immediate assistance for hospital
rehabilitation, with priority given to Metropolitan Santiago. Metropolitan
Santiago's need for rehabilitation assistance is more urgent than the rest of
the country because of the large number of hospitals in poor condition and the
sizable number of low-income people dependent on these hospital services.
V. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
A. Bank's Role and Strategy
5.01      Except for a social sector report that analyzed select aspects of
the Chilean health system and the health components of a Structural Adjustment
Loan (SAL), the Bank has not had a major involvement in the health sector. To
support the new Government's vision of a modern, efficient health sector, the
Bank will participate through its lending and economic and sector work.
Bank's assistance will stress, among other things, the improvement in the
quality, accessibility and efficiency of health care while maintaining fiscal
discipline. The Bank's major role would be to encourage the Government to
forge ahead with its goals to analyze, experiment with, and subsequently fully
implement many policy and institutional changes, which are also of paramount
interest to health sector development in many other middle-income and
developed countries (paras. 6.12-6.28).
5.02      The Bank's lendina assistance to the sector in FY92-94 is expected
to be through a two-stage operation. First, a technical assistance/investment
loan (the proposed Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project,
TAHRP) will assist the Government in responding to urgent hospital rehabilita-
tion needs in Metropolitan Santiago while supporting the ongoing development
of critical policy reforms for the entire country. Second, a policy-based
investment operation (a proposed Health Sector Reform Project, HSRP) will
assist in the implementation of policy and institutional reform measures and
finance investment requirements for the modernization of health services
delivery in Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta and Llanchipal; the
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) will operate in complementary regions.
In essence, a portion of the TAHRP is the preparation phase of the HSRP,
providing additional resources to complement the Project Preparation Facility
Advance (PPF) of US$750,000 (approved in August 1990), which is currently
financing some policy reform studies.
5.03      Through the above-mentioned operations, the Bank will actively
participate in policy design, debate and decisions that will be made by the



- 22 -
Government in the sector. Also, the policy reforms being adopted within the
Bank's operations could serve as a framework for mobilizing complementary
resources from other donors in the sector. In fact, other multilateral and
some bilateral institutions have already referred to the current preparation
of policy reform studies as a major justification for their new financing for
the sector. The Bank is thus assuming a role in ensuring that the recent
surge of donor investments in the sector would be accompanied by much-needed
system-wide policy changes.
5.04      The Bank's economic and sector work will also support the analysis
of new health issues facing Chile. In the current fiscal year, the Bank will
start a study focusing on the demographic, epidemiological, financial, and
institutional aspects of chronic diseases and injuries. The Bank has also
stimulated the interest of the International Finance Coorporation (IFC) in
reviewing the possibility of financing appropriate private sector investments
in the health sector. A feasibility study for a private hospital project in
Santiago is underway.
B. The Role of Other Donors
5.05      The IDB has been the principal source of external financing for
CILle's public health system in the past decade and a half. In 1978, IDB
financed a National Rural Health Program with a loan of about US$41.3 million,
thereafter, two consecutive loans were provided for a National Fund for
Regional Development (FNDR) under which the health sector received in
aggregate about US$64 million from 1984 to 1990. Another US$84 million is
programmed for the next four years. These nationwide investments were, and
will continue to be directed mostly to the reconstruction/rehabilitation, as
well as equipping/reequipping nationwide of primary health care facilities and
type 3 and 4 hospitals (para. 2.30).
5.06      Commencing in 1990, the IDB and the Bank began to coordinate their
respective plans and design of assistance programs for the health sector.
These institutions complement each other in planned area coverage and scope of
technical assistance for the sector. Particularly in the case of technical
assistance, the Bank and IDB have agreed to adopt (or adapt, as necessary) in
their respective project areas, policies or systems designed under projects
being financed by the other institution. The national policy and
institutional reforms being supported by the Bank-proposed loan would help
justify the physical investments to be financed under the IDB projects. The
active participation of the MOH's Office of Multilateral Credit in the Bank
and IDB missions' discussions ensures that both institutions work in parallel
to assist the Government to implement its national health strategy.
5.07      In June 1991, IDB approved a project of US$100 million (loan of
US$70 million) to finance the first stage of a nationwide functional and
physical rationalization of the National System of Health Services. The loan
would finance technical assistance for studies on the improvement of manage-
ment, information, and human resource skills at the level of health facilities
and HSAs, as well as investments for rehabilitation and upgrading of hospital
facilities in Iquique, San Felipe-Los Andes and Valdivia (covering about
5.2 percent of the population). The loan will also finance the preparation of
a second stage operation (a possible loan of about US$100 million) which would
seek to extend nationwide (except in the project areas of the Bank and other



- 23 -
bilateral sources) the application of systems tested in the above-mentioned
three HSAs and the rehabilitation of physical facilities.
5.08      The bilateral sources of assistance include USAID, KFW, and the
Governments of France and Italy. In 1990, USAID approved a grant of US$10
million primarily to assist in strengthening the delivery of services,
management, and information systems at the primary health care level. The
German Government has programmed assistance of about US$17 million for thea
rehabilitation of secondary level hospitals in four HSAs (outside the IDB and
Bank project areas). Under discussion is possible assistance from France and
Italy (about US$20 million) for the purchase of ambulances and other basic
equipment for some health facilities.
C. Lessons From Past Experience
5.09      Since the proposed project would be the Bank's first free standing
health operation in Chile, the review of past experience covered 34 Bank-
financed health projects completed in other countries. Most if not all of
these projects focussed on primary health care (i.e., construction of primary
health care centers) and did not involve hospital rehabilitation. Bank
assistance for hospital rehabilitation on a large scale has barely started,
with two projects in the EMENA Region and one project in the East Asia Region.
To make up for this lack of past experience, an effort was made to review the
lessons learned by other development organizations in financing hospital
rehabilitation, and other relevant empirical studies in and outside the
Bank.!'
5.10      In general, a number of the above Bank-financed health projects
have been affected adversely by the following factors:
(a) An overly ambitious and complex design, which overloaded
institutional capacity for project coordination and implementation;
(b) Lack of borrower's full commitment to the project, leading to lack
of compliance with loan covenants; the situation is aggravated whenever
there is a change in government, often leading to change in priorities;
1/ Sources include (i) 34 SARs, PCRs and Audit Reports on health projects in
LAC, Asia and Africa; (ii) World Bank reports including: Case studies of
pro2ect sustainabilitv: implications for policy and onerations from Asian
exiterience by Michael Bamberger and Shabbir Cheema, ORerational Policy
Reviews Compliance with Loan Covenants (Report No: 4090), and Population.
health, and nutrition annual sector review for 1990; (iii) the following
peer review articlest Can they get along without us?: sustainability of
donor-supported health projects in Central America and Africa by Thomas
Bossart, Problems of implementation by Peter Bowden, Recurrent coeits in
the health sector of developinz countries by Catriona Waddington and
Margaret Thomas, and The place of local social realities in develonment
work by C.R. Willson-Pepper; (iv) project reports from other development
agencies including: the Inter-American Development Bank Summary of ex-post
evaluations of public health programs and the Netherlands Development
Cooperation, Hospital based health care: evaluative summary of Dutch
SUaported activities in the field of hospital-based health care 1975-1984.



- 24 -
(c) Lack of organizational design that lends itself to quick decisions,
throwing the project in a quagmire of bureaucratic delays. A number of
projects tried to counter this problem by creating a special project
implementation unit in the Ministry of Health. While this expedited
decisions, it also led to communication problems, jealousies, and lack
of cooperation from the regular public sector staff;
(d) Lack of sustainability once the Bank loan terminates because of the
borrower's inability or unwillingness to finance recurrent costs; and
(e) In health care center construction, projects ernded up with poor
quality construction because of lack of supplies, inexperienced
contractors, and inappropriate building designs for the project area.
In large projects, the construction component often overshadowed all
other project components in terms of planning, budget allocation, and
supervision.
5.11      Meanwhile, successful Bank-financed projects were characterized by
built-in flexibility, allowing review and revisions as the project progresses;
involvement of highly-qualified staff; high project visibility; and a
significant level of public respect for the government.
5.12      The key issues identified in the hospital rehabilitation projects
financed by other aid agencies centered on the problems encountered during
construction. Hospital construction or rehabilitation projects showed budget
overruns more frequently than other health sector projects. This in turn led
to construction becoming the most emphasized project component, eclipsing the
other objectives and sometimes forcing the project to cut back on other, less
visible but no less important health sector investments. Also, it was noted
that standardization of hospital construction design did not lead to economies
of scale nor to a decrease in costs. On the contrary, contractors increased
their prices, viewing the inflexibility of the plans as an added risk.
5.13      Considering these lessons, the design of the proposed project
emphasized the following characteristics: First, the project has a simple,
straightforward design, addressing the first slice of investment requirements
in the Chile health sector. It focuses on the most immediate needs both in
analytical work for complex policy and institutional reforms, as well as the
physical investment requirements. The project activities could lead to a
follow-up operation that could implement nationwide many of the recommenda-
tions of the first operation. Second, the project has built-in flexibility,
in that investment decisions on small-scale emergency hospital rehabilitation
would take into account the perceived needs of the intermediate and final
beneficiaries of the loan financing (i.e., the hospital staff who have day-to-
day contact with patients from the beneficiary communities). Flexibility is
also instituted by providing project financing for the pilot test or start-up
of policy and institutional reforms that would be adopted during project
implementation. Third, to facilitate project decisions, a Project
Coordination Unit has been created for project preparation and would continue
during project implementation. The Unit is fully integrated into the MOH
management structure and makes all decisions by consensus to ensure the full
involvement of the regular MOH departments in the analysis of reforms and
other project implementation decisions. Also, the ultimate implementore of
the rehabilitation works in the project would be the regional departments of
the MOH.



- 25 -
VI. THE PROJECT
6.01      In line with the Bank's assistance strategy for Chile's health
sector, the proposed TAHRP would pave the way for the introduction of critical
efficiency reform measures in the health sector while attending to some
immediate hospital rehabilitation needs in Metropolitan Santiago. As the
preparatory stage for a larger sector operation (the proposed HSRP), the TARHP
would continue financing the preparatiorL of the policy and institutional
reform studies, pertially being financed since October 1990 by a PPF of about
US$750,000. The recommendations of some of the preparation studies would be
pilot-tested or initiated under the TAHRP and implemented nationwide under the
HSRP. Considering the complexity of some of the reform measures that would
possibly emerge from the preparation studies, preparation effort and
consultations within the Government, as well as between the Government and the
Bank, would need to be comprehensive. In the meantime, the Ministry of Health
has become highly vulnerable to pressures to respond to diverse, ad hoc
requests, especially for the rehabilitation of some hospital facilities.
Cognizant of the pitfalls of adopting such a patchwork approach, the Bank
would attempt to provide assistance through the proposed TAHRP to address
legitimate requests systematically, within a rational investment framework.
6.02      A TAHRP project doc-ment was prepared by the MOH and submitted to
the Bank in May 1991. Project Appraisal was concluded in Septemer 1991.
Negotiations were held in Washington D. C. on November 5 to 8, 1991. During
negotiations, the Chilean delegation was composed of Mr. Hernan Vega, External
Loan Specialist, Ministry of Finance and Dr. Cristian Baeza, Project
Coordinator, Ministry of Health.
A. Project Objectives, Rationale and Area
6.03      Project Objectives.  The proposed project would assist the
government's efforts to develop and launch the start-up of critical policy,
institutional, and operational reforms in health care delivery, and improve
the quality of services in Metropolitan Santiago. Specifically, it would:
(a) assist the Ministry of Health, under a sector development scheme, to
respond systematically to urgent requests for reconstruction, rehabili-
tation, and upgrading of a limited number of hospitals in Metropolitan
Santiago that pose health and safety hazards to their patients, staff
and surrounding environs, and/or are providing poor quality of care
partly because of severely deteriorating facilities and equipment;
(b) assist in the development, pilot testing, and/or initiation of some
reform measures in health service delivery reorientation, health
financing, health labor incentives, strategic planning and management
improvement, and procurement and quality assurance of pharmaceuticals
and food supplements; and
(c) facilitate the actual decentralization of decisions and management
of resources by delegating to the HSAs and hospital managers/staff in
the project area the analysis of needs, as well as the programming and
utilization of financing for urgent rehabilitation in their respective
establishments.



* 26 -
6.04      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project, the Bank's
first lending operation in Chile's health sector, is in line with the overall
country assistance strategy to alleviate poverty within a tightly-managed
fiscal policy. It would essentially support the preparation and pilot test
phase, providing the framework for a follow up policy-based investment
operation. It would also provide the Bank with a vehicle to encourage the
Government to forge ahead with its goals to analyze, pilot test, and sub-
sequently implement many critical policy and institutional changes, that are
also germane to health sector development in many other middle-income and
developed countries. The reforms sought in the Bank operation would seek to
improve the efficiency and quality of services from the primary care to the
tertiary care level. The systemic reforms would thus complement the ongoing
physical investments in the primary care facilities financed by the IDB.
Overall, these reforms could serve as a framework for the involvement of other
donors in the sector.
6.05      The project's support for the most urgent rehabilitation needs of
the public hospital system in Metropolitan Santiago would help initiate the
process of improving the efficiency of resource use in the public health
sector, enhancing the functionality of the secondary and tertiary care
facilities and, thus, their complementary role to the primary care system, and
increasing the responsiveness of the health care svstem to the changing needs
of the Chilean population. This support complements the ongoing IDB
assistance for the improvement of primary care facilities nationwide.   As
could be inferred from Section III and para. 6.06, the Bank's assistance to
the public hospitals in Metropolitan Santia o would benefit largely the
indigent and low-income population as these are the major clients of the
public hospital system. The public hospitals in Metropolitan Santiago also
cater to low-income patients from other regions of the country. The
improvement in the physical facilities and health services of the public
hospitals would need to accompany the iraplementation of improved cost recovery
measures (a study being financed under the Technical Assistance component)
desired both by the Bank and the Government.  The project's investment
component could, thus, help minimize the risk of derailment of the preparation
and subsequent pilot test of complex sector reforms by assisting the
Government to respond in a timely and systematic fashion to the mounting
pressure to upgrade the most glaring hospital facility problems in the
populous marginal areas of Metropolitan Santiago.
6.06      Project Area.  The proposed project includes:  (a) a national scope
for technical assistance, specifically for the development of sector policy
and institutional reforms; and (b) a specific geographic area scope, i.e.,
Metropolitan Santiago, for investments in selected hospital rehabilitation,
training, and information systems upgrading. The project wqould finance the
urgent rehabilitation needs of 17 Type 1 and 2 hospitals in six HSAs in this
metropolis. The major characteristics of these HSAs have been described in
Section III. A map of Metropolitan Santiago (see attached IBRD 23251)
highlights the dispersion of most of the 17 public hospitals in the poor and
middle-income HSAs and the concentration of the better equipped private
hospitals in the high-income area (Metropolitan Southeast HSA) of the city.
By financing some of the immediate rehabilitation requirements of these 17
public hospitals, the project would address partially the need for better
quality of care of a large proportion of Chile's poor population (considering
that the Metropolitan region has more than 40 percent of the country's
population).



- 27 -
B. Main Features of the Prolect
6.07      The proposed project constitutes the preparation and start-up phase
in a continuum of the Bank's planned assistance for the sector. It has three
components: technical assistance, investment for hospital rehabilitation, and
project administration. The technical assistance component, while accounting
for less than 20 percent of total project cost, is the centerpiece of the
proposed operation. The studies, pilot-tests, and start-up operations to be
financed address the core of the sector's major efficiency problems. The
project features flexibility to adapt the reform proposals that may em.nate
from the studies. Meanwhile, the investment component (80 percent of total
project cost) would support the hospital rehabilitation requirements through a
participative approach; i.e., involving the project implementors (HSAs and
hospital managers) in the identification, evaluation, and resource allocation
decisions. Being a preparatory operation, the project would have a short
implementation period (approximately four years). Full implementation of the
rationalization of the national health system could be carried out under a
proposed follow-up operation (the HSRP). Support for a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU; 6 percent of total project cost) would be provided to assist the
MOH to coordinate and manage proiect implementation, provide assistance and
training to the HSAs, and continue the preparation of the follow-up project.
C. Technical Assistance
6.08      The technical assistance component consists of (i) policy/institu-
tional reforms studies, as well as the design of implementation for some of
the recommended reforms; and (ii) the subsequent pilot tests or initiation of
some of these recommendations. More than 80 percent of the cost of these
studies and pilot tests would be financed by the loan, the rest would come
from the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) and local counterpart (Table 7.2). The
sequence of implementation, as well as the financinlg source for each phase of
these studies, are shown in Annex 2. f
6.09      The studies component focuses on the need for policy and institu-
tional reforms in the areas of health service delivery, financing, labor
market incentives, strategic planning and management improvement, procurement
and quality assurance of pharmaceuticals and nutritlon supplements. In
addition, this component includes policy framework studies that provide the
macroeconomic and sector policy setting for the other studies, and analysis of
the health services/facilities gaps and the investment requirements to fill in
these gaps. The studies component consists of two phases: first, the
diagnosis of problems in each of the above areas, and recommendations of
alternative solutions; and second, the design of specific features and the
implementation mechanisms of the chosen alternatives. The first phase, which
started in the last quarter of 1990 supported by the above-mentioned PPF, will
be completed by September-December 1991. The second phase will be financed
under the proposed project with US$700,000 in cofinancing from the JGF (paras.
6.17, 6.23, 6.31 and 6.33).
6.10      The gilot test or start-up component will be defined in detail
during project implementation. Nevertheless, a lump-sum allocation will be
set aside under the proposed loan to finance specifically the critical reform
proposals (paras. 6.34).



- 28 -
6.11      The detailed terms of reference of the different phases of the
studies, including a general outline of the anticipated pilot-test/atart-up
operations are presented in a separate Working Paper in the project files.
The objectives and expected results of the technical assistance operations are
summarized below. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would complete the specific studies, review with the Bank the
corresponding recommendations, and carrv out as appropriate the measures
agreed with the Bank by the dates snecified in the Action Plan in Annex 3.
Included as one of the activities in the Action Plan is the submission to the
Bank by July 1992 of a draft policy letter that would reflect the Government's
commitment to implement the policy and institutional reforms to be~ recommended
by the technical assistance studies. Assurances were obtained that an Action
Plan Status Review would be held no later than July 30, 1992 to take stock of
the-progress of compliance with the target dates of '-he Action Plan.
Policy Framework Studies (US$70,000)
6.12      Macroeconomic Setting of the Health Sector (US$14,000).  The first
phase of a Macroeconomic Framework study for the health sector financed by the
PPF was concluded in December 1991. This study presented different scenarios
of the possible incremental recurrent expenditures that would be required by
the total programmed investments in the health sector for 1991-94. A second
phase of this study, to be financed by the proposed project, would analyze the
sustainability of the proposed new investments for the sector; estimate the
financial savings that coulld be generated by the reform measures currently
being analyzed and proposed for implementation under the HSRP; and estimate
the budgetary implications of the proposed reforms for the role of FONASA.
6.13      Sectoral Policy Settlng (US$8,000).  This nonempirical policy note,
financed by the PPF and concluded in February 1991, elaborated on the health
sector objectives guiding the program gtrategies and projects in the health
sector. The study was furnished to the other consultant groups working in the
project.
6.14      Reorientation of the Health Care Delivery System (US$48,030).  This
study financed by the PPF was undertaken between November 1990 and February
1991. Its recommendations were reviewed by the Bank and subsequently approved
by the Government in July 1991. Its recommendations are being used as the
framework for the elaboration of the other preparation studies for the HSRP.
Also, it is intended to serve as the framework for future investment projects
in the sector in this decade.
6.15      The study analyzed the present model of health care delivery in
Chile, focussing on the functions of different heatlth establishments, level of
technological complexity, capacity to resolve health problems, and the
referral system from the primary to the tertiary level. Critical strategies
were identified to make the system responsive to the geodemographic realities,
as well as the actual and emerging needs of the population in the localities
surveyed. The recommendations center on the redefinition of the roles of the
health establishments for the different levels of care. Specifically, the
major thrust would be to bring the health services as close as possible to the
beneficiary population, and thus to increase the capacity to prevent and
resolve health problems in the lower levels of care. Since Chile has achieved
a comfortable level of development in primary care, the major focus of invest-
ment in the next few years would be in ambulatory care. A summary of the



- 29 -
recommendations of the study is shawn in Annex 4 (Frame of Reference for
Hbalth Sector Investments). The Government furnished the Bank a copy of
Ministerial Resolution No. 1366 dated October 29, 1991 which convoys the
adoption of the recommendations of the study to serve as a framework for
future investments in the sector.
Health Facilities Needs and Feasibility Stud (US$1.5 million)
6.16      The first stage of this study in Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta
and LLanchipal (project areas of H$RP for infrastructure investments),
financed by the PPF, would be concluded in the last quarter of 1991 (US$0.5
million). The study is analyzing the supply and need for services in these
areas, as well as the functional and physical conditions of the health
facilities. Based on the deficiencies observed, the study would recommend
alternatives (e.g., reconstruction of some health facilities) to establish the
most adequate referral network taking into account the principles established
in the Reorientation of the Health Care Model Study. The study would also
estimate the resource needs to establish the proposed network.
6.17      The second stage of the study (US$1.0 million), which would start
in early 1992, would be financed under the TAHRP with a contribution from the
JGF. This study would elaborate onI the architectural design and engineering
details (facilities and equipment) of the solutions chosen to address the
service gaps in the three areas.  The JGF would, specifically, finance the
architectural design of four hospitals in Metropolitan Santiago, one in
Llanchipal and one in Antofagasta (US$260,000). Estimated costs of completing
the design/engineering details of other facilities would be financed by the
TAHRP.
Institutional Reform Studies (US$1.5 million)
6.18      Health Financing (US$0.3 million).  The first stage of the health
financing study, which was financed by the PPF and concluded in July 1991,
included the following: first, the system for resource allocation and
transfer within the public sector; and second, the cost recovery system at the
hospital and the municipal-based primary health care centers. The study on
resource allocation identified the reforms needed in the incentive system, the
decentralization of decisions and management of financial resourceso, and the
control functions of the MOH. This study analyzed in detail the shortcomings
and alternatives to the PAP and FAPEM. The second study focussed on the cost
and price structure, as well as the copayment system for health services.
6.19      In August 1991 the government decided to adopt most of the recom-
mendations of the above-mentioned studies. The recommendations at this stage
emphasized the general direction of the system and pricing changes; the
details have yet to be quantified and designed for implementation.
6.20      The Government has decided to adopt a capitation1 scheme for
primary health care in the municipal facilities; to allow variation In the
V A method of reimbursement whereby the health provider collects in advance
a set fee that entitles the patients to any quantity of covered services
deemed necessary by the provider over a specified period of time, usually
a month.



- 30 -
capitation payment between urban and rural areas; and to keep primary care
free to the user. The Government would also move gradually to a DRG
(diagnosis-related groups)31 scheme for paying part of the secondary and
tertiary care, rather than fee-for-service for individual "atenciones". The
DRG scheme would be adapted to the needs and stage of development of the
Chilean health system. A primary objective would be to help hospitals and
HSAs to identify, plan for, and assign resources for the different set of
services offered to the hospital patients. This instrument would help link
the planning process to resource allocation in the production and delivery of
services at the hospital level. Thus, the HSA would budget for, and pay for,
all levels of care prospectively, so far as possible, with subsequent adjust-
ment to the actual provision of services at hospital level. Other chosen
options include the following: (i) set tariffs at all levels so as to cover
total recurrent costs, specifically including salaries; (ii) continue to fund
investments separately from recurrent costs, except for routine maintenance
expenditures; (iii) eliminate virtually all financial incentives other than
the tariffs and prices themselves; (iv) review the non-financial incentives
with a view to simplifying them and making them more effective; (v) adjust the
A-B-C-D levels which determine FONASA tariffs so that A and B will correspond
to an exogenous definition of indigence, and C to an exogenous definition of
poverty; (vi) adjust copayment rates under FONASA so that real money copay-
ments will be essentially the same as now; (vii) turn the current HSAs into
autonomous State Enterprises or something equivalent (without trying to create
a completely new kind of enterprise); (viii) allow hospital directors to set
their own prices for sales of services to the private sector; (ix) create some
mechanism for sharing the surplus generated by such market prices, retaining
incentives for hospitals to exploit monopoly power while transferring some of
the resources to facilities with no such opportunities; (x) allow hospitals to
use ten (rather than five) percent of their beds for private patients; -rnd
(xi) push for changes in the law governing the ISAPRES, both to ensure that
they continue to take care of their elderly and costly members, and to give
them incentives for preventive and promotional care.
6.21      The second stage of the study, to be financed under this project,
would consist of carrying out a detailed cost of services study, and
quantifying and designing the details of the above chosen options and the
pilot phase of some reforms. Draft detailed terms of reference for these
second-stage studies have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank.
The resulto expected from these studies would includet tariff structure to be
applied at the primary level; determination of the coefficient for tariff
adjustment; operational and administrative procedures to implement the new
tariff and incentive structure; methodology for capitation payment with
variation for urban/rural area differences; determination of the cost per unit
of the principal hospital services or DRGs; and design of the pilot activities
in specific areas to implement the reforms. Pilot implementation of some of
the reforms (e.g.v capitation and DRG schemes) would be financed also under
the project (para. 6.34).
31  A method of hospital reimbursement that essentially converts thue hospital
billing and reimbursement method to one based on the patient's diagnosis.
With the DRG method the diagnosis is the key component in determining the
bill for the hoopital stay and other services.



- 31 -
6.22      Strategic Planning and Management Improvement of MOH (US$0.5
million). The first phase of the study on strengthening the MOH, financed by
the PPF, would identify the structural, functional, managerial and human
resource deficiencies of the central and regional offices of the Ministry with
focus on the incentive structure for health personnel (para. 4.12). The study
would identify the requirements for training and for an integrated information
system to support a modernized public health structure. The anticipated
recommendations would strengthen the decentralization of decisions and
accountability for health resources partly through the development of a
management information system th-.t would provide managers with reliable and
timely information on resource use, its efficiency and effectiveness in
producing outcomes. Also, one of the emerging recommendations is to
restructure and strengthen the appropriate MOH departments to allow the
gradual absorption of some of the functions being carried out currently by the
PCU. This step would coincide with the plan to assess the PCU functions
during the TAHRP's Mid-term Review (para.8.18). The MOH study would conclude
in the last quarter of 1991 and recommendations would be discussed with the
Bank, and approved by the Government in early 1992.
6.23      The second stage of the study, which would be financed under the
TARHP with contribution from the JGF, would consist of designing the details
of the recommendations adopted. Expected results would include: a regulatory
framework for implementing the modification of the structure and functions of
the MOHE design of procedures to improve MOH's capacity to formulate, monitor,
and evaluate policies, programs, and norms, including strengthening the
monitoring of quality of care indicators; design of a detailed training plan
for the MOH and the SEREMI managerial level; and design of the incentive
system for sector personnel. The design of the information system network
would be financed by the JGF. Start-up activities to improve the information
system and managerial skills of the staff of the MOH and selected primary and
secondary level health establishments would also be financed under the project
(para 6.31-6.33).
6.24      Health Sector Procurement System (US$0.3 million).  The first stage
of this study, financed by the PPF, focussed on the analysis of the internal
efficiency of the Central Supply Facility, the current procurement procedures
being used by the HSAs, hospitals and health centers, the procurement system
of some private health  - -blishments.  Recommendations of the study will be
reviewed by Government ano the Bank in the last quarter of 1991. The second
staget which would be financed by the TAIRP, would design the implementation
phase: necessary legal regulatory changes, preparation of organization and
operational manuals, quantification of investment and operational financing
requirements for the chosen options; and estimation of the cost savings from
the proposed changes in the procurement system.
6.25      Strengthening the Public Hiealth Institute (ISP)(US$0.2 million).
The first stage of the study, financed by the PPF, focussed on analysis of the
constraints affecting ISP's normative, technical, supervisory, and auditing
role with respect to quality of drugs and food products for national consump-
tion. The recommendations are expected to be reviewed by the Government and
the Bank in the last quarter of 1991. The second stage of the study, to be
financed under the TAIIRP, deals with the design of mechanisms to implement the
recommendations adopted. This would include preparation of le;al/regulatory
instructions, elaboration of training programs for ISP personnel, estimation



- 32 -
of the costs and savings of the proposed changes, and preparation of
organizational and administrative manuals.
6.26      Organizational Models of Public Hospitals (US$50,000).  To increase
the resource use efficiency in the public hospital sector, the Government
would analyze the feasibility of three alternative organizational models of
hospital administration. The first consists of introducing changes in the
hospital's technical, operational, and management setup within existing legal
and administrative restrictions. Possible actions would include: hiring
hospital managers who are not in the medical career stream; setting of
Administrative Councils in each hospital, with participation of community
representatives to assume the administrative and operational decisions
currently centralized in the HSAs; and redesign of administrative and control
mechanisms. The second is the creation of Autonomous Regional Hospitals with
community participation--this would transfer the hospital's administration to
a Council of Directors which would decentralize strategic decisions and permit
the participation of communities and non-governmental organizations. And the
third is the maintenance of the organizational setup but with greater partici-
pation of the private sector--this would consist of arrangements to buy and
sell services (e.g., laundry, ambulance service, and food service). The
purchase and sale of services by the private sector can be a feature of the
first two also.
6.27      The feasibility analysis of the first alternative will be financed
under the IDB health project (US$40,000), while that of the second and third
alternatives will be financed under the TAHRP (US$49,000). Expected results
would include measures to minimize the various restrictions for an effective
decentralization of hospital management; economic, financial, technical and
legal implications of the above alternatives; and specific actions that need
to be pilot-tested.
6.28      Evaluation of the National Food Supplementation Program(PNAC)
(US$0.3 million). The objective of the study, to be financed under the TAHRP,
would be tot (a) evaluate the PNAC and define specific reforms to improve its
overall efficiency and effectiveness; (b) design the mechanisms to implement
selected reforms; and (c) estimate investment and operational cost
implications of selected reforms. Through this study the Ministry of Health
intends to evaluate the impact of PNAC food benefits, particularly the
program's cost effectiveness, ensuring that study design and methods are
comparable to those of a similar study done by the Catholic University of
Chile in 1979, with a view to analyzing trends over time. Given Chile's
success in reducing malnutrition, efforts would be made to evaluate the
preventive impact of the PNAC by measuring changes in the nutritional and
health status of different population groups. In addition, the Ministry
expects that this study would define a set of reforms to improve the operation
of the PNAC. To this end, the study would assess possible improvements in the
program's targeting, product mix, service delivery, management, and procure-
ment methods. Finally, the study would define the legal, structural, organi-
zational, and administrative modifications, as well as the resources needed to
implement selected reforms. The study is expected to be completed by mid-
1993.
6.29      Snecific-Programs (US$10,000).  The project would finance the
preparation of the design of the pilot phase of two specific programs that
would address problems in environmental health and women's health. The pilot



- 33 -
project in the area of environmental health would focus on the elaboration of
incentives and mechanisms to stimulate a strong participation of the private
sector to adopt preventive environmental measures. The women's health program
would focus on appropriate actions to diminish mortality from cervical cancer.
Some of the specific actions to be recommended by the studies would be
qualified to be funded under the Pilot Implementation Program component of the
proposed project (para. 6.34).
6.30      Monitoring and Evaluation ((US$60,000).  This study, to be financed
under the TAHRP, would develop the methods for monitoring the implementation
of each of the project components of the proposed HSRP, as well as for
evaluating the costs and benefits or impact of the potential HSRP investments.
It would attempt to recommend appropriate methodologies, (including, as
appropriate, outcome indicators), to monitor and evaluate the HSRP's impact on
efficiency, equity, and quality of care, as well as the financial results of
the efficiency measures to be instituted under the project. The study would
be completed in the first quarter of 1992.
D. Pilot-Tests/Start-up Operations
6.31      Information System (US$1.0 million).  Based on the results of the
study on the information system (para. 6.23), the project would finance the
installation of an information system network in the MOH to facilitate the
information flow within the different MOH departments and between the MOH and
the implementing agencies, the HSAs. The computerization of the health
information data from HSAs and the administrative procedures within the MOH
would speed up policy decisions and reactions to the problems presented by the
different service areas. The design of the required network (para. 6.23), as
well as the purchase of the bulk of the required computer hardware and
software for the MOH would be financed by the JGF. The loan would finance the
rest of the MOH computer requirements and those of the six HSAs in
Metropolitan Santiago.
6.32      At the same time, pilot information network would be established in
one hospital ambulatory care center and 10 urban health care centers to
facilitate registration, referral and follow-up of patients. This would not
only reduce the waiting time for the patients but also would increase the time
utilization of the health personnel in the health centers. The loan would
finance the computer hardware and software requirements of these ambulatory
and urban health care centers. As part of the Action Plan, the Government
would furnish the Bank for its review and aiproval the information network
desiRn for the MOH and the health centers no later than June 30, 1992. and
commence implementation no later than October 15. 1992.
6.33      Traininiq and Information Workshops (US$0.2 million).  The project
would finance information dissemination workshops to give a broader exposure
to the reforms to be adopted, especially for the more sensitive changes in the
health financing allocation system. The project would also finance the first
phase training of about 70 directors and selected staff in the MOH, HSAs and
hospitals in the Metropolitan Region to improve management and financial
skills that would help facilitate smooth project implementation. Training
would include short courses or workshops in budgeting, human resource
management, financial management, formulation, evaluation and administration
of projects, and procurement. The local courses and seminars would be
financed by JGF and the overseas training by the Bank loan. In this respect,



- 34 -
a general Training Plan was submitted to the Bank (summarized in Annex 5).
Also, assurances were obtained during negotiations that as part of the Action
Plan for this 1ro1ect (Annex 3). on June 15 and December 15 of each year the
Goverrnment would furnish the Bank for its review and approyal the training
activities planned to be carried out for the following semester.
Simultaneously, a design of a more elaborate training for the improvement of
managerial skills in the sector would be elaborated and financed under the
project (para. 6.23).
6.34      Pilot Implementation Program (US$1.4 million).  This program of
US$1.4 million would support the pilot or start-up execution of some of the
policy or institutional reforms to be adopted by the Government during project
implementation. The exact details explaining how the fund for this program
would be allocated would be defined and approved by the Bank only during
project implementation since the reform studies have not concluded, extensive
discussions on alternative recommendations have yet to be carried out, and
implementation design of some of the chosen reforms have yet to be elaborated.
Preliminary discussions indicated that the Pilot Program would include some
infrastructure investments to test a design for enhanced ambulatory care
units, and technical support to carry out in one or two HSAs the capitation
and DRG schemes. Assurances were obtained during negotiations, that the
specific list of investments (comprising goods, works and services) eligible
for financing under the loan would be submitted to the Bank for aRRroval no
later than June 15, 1992. No disbursement will be made for expenditures under
this program unless the respective investment has been approved by the 3ank.
E. Hospital Rehabilitation Program
6.35      The project will support the urgent rehabilitation needed in 17
Type 1 and 2 hospitals located in six HSAs covering the poor urban and semi-
rural areas of Metropolitan Santiago (US$26.4 million). A profile of the
state of obsolescence and deterioration of each of these hospitals is
discussed in Annex 6. The project would address the physical and technology
deficiencies that prevent an adequately functioning hospital establishment.
Assistance to these hospitals would be allocated through a demand-driven
mechanism, i.e., rehabilitation/upgrading subprojects would be generated and
proposed by the hospitals through their respective HSAs; these would be
reviewed and approved by the PCU in conjunction with the Ministry of Planning.
The subprojects would be implemented by the HSAs; periodic monitoring and
review of implementation progress would be exercised by the PCU (see Section
VII for an elaboration of the implementation procedures).
6.36      The involvement of the HSAs and the hospitals in the identifica-
tion, preparation, and execution of the subprojects is in itself a training
for an actual decentralization of resource allocation and utilization
decisions in the health sector. This exercise would also help prepare the
HSAs for the more intricate implementation needs of the subsequent HSRP.
6.37      HSA Subproiect Selection Criteria.  The selection criteria is
spelled out in the HSA Implementation Manual which has been reviewed and found
acceptable by the Bank. The principal HSA Selection Criteria to qualify the
subprojects have been agreed with the Government (see Annex 7 for details).
These are differentiated between Basic Criteria, which are necessary but not
sufficient conditions to qualify, and Priority Criteria, which would help in



- 35 -
the priority allocation of a set amount of funds for the immediate
rehabilitation needs of these hospitals. The Basic Criteria include the
following: (a) subproiect tvyes would consist of repair, replacement, or
purchase of new equipment and/or vehicles; repair, improvement, replacement,
construction of infrastructure; and/or a mixture of these subprojects; (b)
subproiect costs would range between US$10,000 and US$350,000 with an
implementation period of no more than one year from the start of the procure-
ment procedures; (c) certification by the hospital or the HSA director that
the subproject can count on sufficient budget for required oReration and
maintenance; if the requirement exceeds more than 15 percent of the investment
cost in a year, the HSA should present a letter of approval from the
Undersecretary of Health (DIPLAP); (iv) the subproject would be in line with
the HSRP investment strategy as determined by the PCU.
6.38      The Priority Criteria would rank subprojects according to the
following expected benefits: (a) minimization of bottlenecks in medical
procedures or hospital support services; (b) reduction of patients and
personnel risks; (c) emphasis on rehabilitation/replacement/repair versus new
construction or purchase of new equipment; and (d) promotion of ambulatory
care. The ranking methodology for these criteria is discussed in detail in
Annex 7. Difficulties in arriving at exact measurement of these benefits are
well recognized. Nonetheless, an exercise of assigning points to reflect a
group of reviewers' perception of the relative imnortance of each of the
subprojects presented would minimize the chances of allocating the project
funds to "favorite hospitals" or "less urgent" subprojects. Both the basic
and priority criteria would be reviewed and modified, as appropriate, during
the Mid-term Review in June 1993. During this review, the inclusion of
improved cost recovery as priority criteria would be analyzed taking into
account the results and recommendations of the health financing studies.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would adopt
th   S   mlmnainMna   eoela  effectiveness and that it would
apply its selection criteria during Pr ject implementation (para. 8.03).
Also, assurances were obtained that the selection criteria would be
reassessed during the Mid-term Review and modified, as necessary. baseL. on the
recommendations of such review (para. 8.18).
6.39      Selection Process.  The process of subprolect generation and
approval would involve the hospital directors and etaff, the HSA directors,
the PCU and the Ministry of Planning (MIDEPLAN) as major actors. On certain
set deadlines, the PCU would request the HSA's to submit subproject applica-
tions. Based on the implementing guidelines approved by the Bank (HSA
Implementation Manual), and using the subproject application form issued by
the PCU (para. 8.03), the hospital director and his/her staff would prepare
subproject application/s for those areas which they consider of highest
priority in their establishment. These applications would be sent to the HSA
director. The latter together with the directors of hospitals in their area
of jurisdiction would review the proposals and assign priority to those
subprojects that would best meet perceived needs of the population in their
respective areas. These subproject applications would then be sent to the PCU
which would review, rank, and approve the subprojects according to the
priority criteria (HSA Selection Criteria) diecussed above. Approved
subprojects would then be sent to the Department of Investments of MIDEPLAN
for review of completeness of information required for all investment
projects, validation of technical analysis by the PCU, and registration in the
MIDEPLAN's Project Data Bank. As indicated in the HSA Implementation Manual,



- 36 -
subprolects costing USS250.000 and above would be sent to the Bank for prior
approval. The processing period from the PCU's receipt of the subproject
applications to MIDEPLAN's final approval would take about 30 days. Annex 8
shows the estimated time required at each stage of the subproject preparation
and approval cycle.
6.40      The PCU called for the first subproject submissions on April 14,
1991. The PCU reviewed the subprojects submitted using the foregoing
procedures and criteria. Of the submissions, 18 subprojects with a financing
requirement of about US$2.8 million were judged eligible and approved by the
PCU and MIDEPLAN. These subprojects, which were reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank, are ready for immediate implementation. These
subprojects and a summary of the bottlenecks they would address are shown in
Annex 9.
6.41      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The implementation of the hospital
rehabilitation subprojects would be monitored closely by the PCU. During
negotiations, assurances were provided that the PCU would furnish the Bank
(i) a guarterlv report of the Rhvsical and financial status of the
subprojects. and (ii) every November 30 each year an annual progress report
and proposed investment plan for the following year calendar_year. Also, by
June 30. 1993 the Government would achieve a disbursement of at least 30
percent of the loan proceeds for the hospital rehabilitation subproiects.
Aareements were also reached that on June 30, 1993 and June 30. 1995 the
Government would furnish the Bank an assessment report on the status of the
health services indicators currently being developed in an ongoing monitoring
and evaluation study (para.6.31) for the 17 proiect hospitals in MetroDolitan
Santia&o (Annex 3, IIIA.1 - A.5).
VII. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
7.01      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$45.3
million, including taxes and duties (US$6.0 million) with a foreign exchange
component estimated at US$15.6 million, or 34 percent of total project cost.
The base cost is estimated at US$34.2 million. Project costs by component are
summarized in Table 7.1. Detailed cost tables are shown in Annex 10.
7.02      Contingency Allowances.  An attempt was made to estimate the
physical and price contingen^ies of the subprojects based on the sample
submitted to the Bank in June 1991. Physical contingencies amount to
10.0 percent of base costs for civil works, and to 5.0 percent for goods and
equipment for the hospital rehabilitation component. No physical contingen-
cies are considered for consultant services. Local price contingencies were
assumed to be 19.7 percent for 1993, 21.7 percent for 1994, 21.1 percent for
1995 and 20.5 percent for 1996. For foreign contingencies the rates assumed
were 1.9 percent, 3.9 percent, 4.9 percent and 4.2 percent, respectively.
7.03      Duties and Taxes.  Locally procured goods are subject to a value-
added tax (VAT) of 18.0 percent. Imported goods such as medical and
Industrial equipment, vehicles, and computers are subject to 11.0 percent of
customs tax and 18.0 percent of VAT. Total taxes are estimated to amount to
US$6.0 million.



- 37 -
Table 7.1: CHILE - SUMMARY COST TABLE
(US$ 000)
TA-oLZ 7.1   $%MIT COS  TAILE
(000 U0$)
._ _...__............. _.._ .. __.___.._........
2 of        2 Total
Local     Forsnto         Total    Foreign           ass
EachoAg.       Costs
A.  OS9PITAL  1U.ILITATION
1. Civil vorks                        13 654            0       13.654         0.0         40.0
2. equipsat                                0       12.220       12,220       100.0         35.8
3. Vahcls                                             5 334        554       100.0          1.6
Subtotal loep. Rehab.                 15.654       12.774       260428        48.3         77.3
S. STUDIES (CC Ultat 5t0Vic*)
1. Policy prasvork Studias
a.  acroaconomJc sttiSg                14            0           14         0.0          0.0
b. Sectoral policy setting              a            0            a         0.0          0.0
c. Zor. btaltb care aod.l             48            0           48         0.0          0.1
70            0           70         0.0          0.2
2. SHelth racilities Study
a. 01a5n. bosp. $rv. gaps              10            0           10         0.0          0.0
b. Jnal. hoop. s.rv. Sp.             532             0          532         0.0          1.6
-. Fsassb.1 I gorSn.Studi#o           952           48        1.000         4.S          2.9
1.A94           48        1,542         3.1          4.5
3. Inatitut. R.forf Studies
a. scaltb ftinuciug                  209            75          254        26.4          0.8
b. NOR strangthanilg                  457           28          45          5.8          1.4
a. 8ealtb supply                     i59             0          259         0.0          0.8
d. Public Health Institute            167            0          167         0.0          0.5
*. Orgiatiotol models                  49            0           49         0.0          0.1
2. PIC  svaluation                    294            0          294         0.0          0.9
_                       ......  . , ...
1.453          103        1,538         6.7          4.5
4. Eval. aud Kooitoring Design            60            0           60         0.0          0.2
5. Design of Specific Progrsas            10            0           10         0.0          0.0
-- _           ...        .._ ....      ...          --
subtotal Studies                       3.069           151      3S220          4.7          9.4
C. PILOT TESTS/STARt-oP oPiaTr0Ns
1. Consultant s-avices                   125            0          125         0.0          0.4
2. Equipuot                              125          750          872        85.7          2.6
3. Traioing/lorkabops                    120           80          200        40.0          0.6
4. Pilot tuplsD*ntatioc                1,400            0        1,400         0.0          4.5
Subtotal Pllot r-sts                   1.770          630        2.600        31.9          7.6
D. 110310? AEI11tN2A?IOM0
1. ICU staff slaries                   1,126            0        1.526         0.0          4.5
2. EuipsotIVoJCla                          0          120          120       100.0          0.4
S. Tratirig/toavl                          0           41           41        100.0         0.1
4. Otbar tCO operatin  costs             233             0         255          0.0         0.7
Subtotal Froj. Ada.                    1,739          161        1,920         8.6          5.6
..............................    ..................................  ... ....
Total usrmnI   cosTs                     20.052        13.916      34,168         40.7       100.0
Physical Contiogsncias                 1.393          679        2,073         52.8
trHce ContStng000i5                   2.040          9983       1031          52.4
Total  CSC COSTS 872081 TAIS             55,894        15,578      39.272         M9.7
1880.                                  9.888             0       5.998         0.0
..................................   ...................................
Total P310=   COSTS                     25,962         15578       45,270         $4.4
....    . .... . _.             -         ------



- 38 
B. Financing Plan
7.04      The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$27.0
million or 70 percent of total project cost net of taxes and duties. It would
cover almost 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures and about 49 percent
of the estimated local costs net of taxes and duties. The Government of Chile
would finance US$11.6 million which represents approximately 30 percent of the
total project cost net of taxes and duties. In addition, the Government of
Japan through the JGF would contribute US$0.7 million to finance partly two
technical assistance studies, as well as start-up activities in training and
information system, as described above. The sianing of the Japanese Grant
Agreement between the Government and the Bank as administrator of the Grant
Fund, or an alternative arrangement satisfactory to the Bank that the
Government would have made to finance the corresponding components would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. Table 7.2 shows the project financing plan,
with a breakdown by project categories.
Table 7.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
JAPAN     CHILE
TOTAL     IBRD      GOVT      GOVT
A.  HOSPITAL REHABILITATION                31.1     20.0                  11.1
B.  STUDIES                                 2.8      2.1        0.4        0.3
C. PILOT TESTS/START UP OPERATIONS          2.7      2.4        0.3
D. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                   2.0       1.8                  0.2
PPF Refunding                            0.7      0.7
Taxes                                    6.0                           6.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                        45.3     27.0        0.7       17.6
VIII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Management and Coordination
8.01      The MOH would be responsible for overall implementation of the
project.  To assist in the oversight of project implementation, provide
technical assistance to the HSA staff, and continue the preparation of the
follow-up project, the organization and functions of the existing Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), would be expanded. The new organizational chart and
terms of reference of the PCU are shown in Annex 11.   The Government
furnished the Bank a covypf Ministerial Resolution Nos.2087 and 1317
dated December 31. 1990 and August 29. 1991 creating the expanded PCU and
naming a Project Coordinator. The PCU would report to MOH's Director of the
Office of Multilateral Credit. This Office which is under the direct
supervision of the Minister of Health (see Annex 1, Fig. 2) for the MOH



- 39 -
organizational chart), is primarily responsible for coordinating the
preparation and implementation of the IDB- and IBRD-financed health projects.
The PCU consultant staff would be hired on a need basis; the number of PCU
staff, and thus the loan proceed allocation for administration cost, is
programmed to decline gradually during the implementation period. The
absorption of appropriate PCU functions by the relevant agencies, departments
and/divisions of the MOH and/or by the HSAs would be analyzed during the Mid-
term Review (para. 6.22 and 8.18). Also, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that by June 30, 1992 the Government would furnish the Bank an
action plan and schedule for the inteRration of the PCU functions.  This
transfer should not necessarily imply an enlargement of the permanent
managerial and staff positions of the MOH. Instead, the objective would be to
ensure that the MOH and HSA personnel are appropriately trained to carry out
the functions presently being performed by the PCU.
8.02      The PCU would be headed by a Project Coordinator who would be
assisted by three subunit heads: the technical coordinator for the hospital
rehabilitation subprojects; the technical coordinator for technical assistance
(i.e., the HSRP preparation studies and start-up implementations); and the
administrative coordinator. During implementation, the PCU would comprise a
total of 4 senior level professionals, 24 technical staff, and 7 support
staff. The major functions of the PCU would include: (a) to direct and
provide technical assistance, as well as monitor and supervise the
implementation of the hospital rehabilitation subprojects by the HSAs; (b) to
coordinate the implementation of the policy and institutional reform studies
for the preparation of the HSRPs (c) to supervise the goods and services
procurement by the HSAs, and coordinate the financial flows for project
implementation; (d) to implement the pilot programs described in Section VI;
and (e) to provide the Bank with a quarterly report on the physical and
financial status of project implementation. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would maintain the PCU with staffing
satisfactory to the Bank for the duration of the project. The PCU terms of
reference and the detailed operational directives related to PCU
responsibilities for project implementation are contained in a PCU Operations
Manual. The final draft of this Manual was submitted to the Bank. Its
adoption by the Government would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
8.03      The HSAs, with the assistance of the hospital directors/staff,
would be responsible for the preparation and implementation of the subprojects
in the hospitals under their jurisdiction. The MOH would sign an umbrella
Subsidiary Agreement with the HSAs covering obligations applicable to all
subproiects in which such HSA is involved with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The signing of the umbrella Subsidiary Agreements
would be a r.ondition of first disbursement for each HSA.  In addition, a
separate subprolect agreement would be signed before disbursing for each
subpro1ect. Under the subproject agreement the respective HSA would be
responsible for the execution of the specific subproject and the MOH would
transfer as a grant the Loan proceeds required to finance such subproject. The
specific counterpart contribution of the HSA would also be specified. The PCU
would furnish the HSAs with an Implemeatation Manual, whlich would provide the
technical norms, administrative, budgetary and procurement procedures to be
followed by the HSAs. Drafts of these agreements were furnished to the Bank.
They would be revised to take into account the comments provided by the Bank
during negotiations. A final draft of the HSA Implementation Manual was also
submitted to the Bank. Its adopn _bnj the Government would be a condition of



- 40 -
loan effectiveness. The HSAs will send monthly reports to the PCU describing
the physical and financial status of implementation of the subprojects.
B. Procurement
8.04      The PCU would be responsible for monitoring all procurement
activities and for ensuring compliance under Bank Procurement Guidelines. All
bid documents and contract awards to be carried out by the HSAs for the
hospital rehabilitation subprojects would be subject to prior review and
approval of the PCU. Since there are no specific procurement laws in Chile,
the bidding documents for both international and local procurement regulate
the bidding procedures. The Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) standard documents
for works and goods were prepared in consultation with the Bank. These
documents were approved by the Bank in November 1991. The International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) standard document is in the process of being drafted
and would be submitted to the Bank in December 1991. Procurement arrangements
are summarized below in Table 8.1 and an estimated procurement timetable is
shown in Annex 10, Table 8.
Table 8.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEIMENTS (a)
(US$ million equivalent)
ICB       LCB       Other     N.A.  Total
Civil works                          14.9      3.0               17.9
(3.0)    (2.8)             (5.8)
Goods, equipment,          6.6       10.6      3.0              20.2
furniture, vehicles       (5.0)      (7.8)    (2.3)            (15.1)
Technical Assistance
-Studies                                  2.9               2.9
(2.1)             (2.1)
-Training                                            0.2    0.2
(0.1)  (0.1)
-Pilot Program (b)                        1.4               1.4
(1.4)             (1.4)
PCU consultants and                            2.0               2.0
other managsment costs (c)                    (1.8)              (1.8)
PPF Refinancing                                           0.7    0.7
(0.7)  (0.7)
Total                                                         45.3
(27.0)
(a)   Totals include taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses show
allocation from loan proceeds.
(b)   Estimated amounts. Detailed procurement arrangements would be
defined during project implementation.
(c)   Includes salaries of contracted staff of the PCU and other operating
costs e.g. office supplies, rent, utilities, etc.



- 41 -
8.05        Civil Works. Civil works for the hospital rehabilitation
subprojects would be managed by the HSAs. International competitive bidding
(ICB) would not be used as the bulk of civil works would consist of
refurbishing some hospital facilities (e.g., reconstruction/repair of
pavilions, bathrooms, roofs, kitchens, etc.) and would be small in amount.
Individual works costing less than US$50,000 would be awarded to local
contractors on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three
eligible contractors up to an aggregate amount of US$3.0 million. Civil works
contracts totalling about US$14.9 million equivalent and valued at US$50,000
and above per contract would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. As much as possible, similar types of civil works
(e.g., bathroom repairs in several hospitals) would be grouped in packages to
minimize administrative costs and take advantage of contractors'
specialization.
8.06        Goods and Materials.  The bulk of goods and materials consists of
hospital equipment and spare parts, computer and peripheral equipment, some
vehicles, and some office equipment and supplies for the PCU. As much as
possible, purchases of similar types of hospital equipment and spare parts
would be packaged. Goods and materials contracts valued above US$250,000 per
contract would be awarded following ICB (including 15 percent preference for
local bidders) in accordance with the Bank's guidelines (May 1985). For
contracts valued between US$35,000 and US$250,000 per contract and not
exceeding an aggregate amount of US$10.6 million equivalent would be carried
out following LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For contracts valued
below US$35,000 per contract and not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$3.0
million equivalent, shopping procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
followed.
8.07        Services.  Consultants carrying out studies, technical assistance,
and training will be hired following Bank guidelines (August 1981). During
the PPF implementation, the PCU adopted internal administrative procedures
that helped expedite the contracting of consultants. These procedures
included a close follow up by PCU staff of the different stages of consultant
contract approval and required signature in the MOH, the Controller General's
Office, and the Office of the President. Also, whenever possible consultant
contracts are sent in bunches to the Controller General's Office and the
Office of the President in order to minimize the time required for contract
approval and signature. On the average, the whole process is completed in
about 20 days for each consultant contract. The follow-up procedures would be
continued during project implementation. During appraisal and negotiations,
it was confirmed that for the specific case of this project no significant
problem is anticipated with regard to the requirement of validating the
academic degrees of international consultants in Chile since the consultants
would continue to be hired as expert advisers in specific topics and not as
professionals in their respective fields. Also, it was noted that the
validation requirement would not pose a problem for the engineering studies in
this project. Actual practice would be monitored closely to ensure that
consultant hiring under this project would remain consistent with the Bank
guidelines.
8.08        Prior Review.  Prior review by the Bank would be required for all
procurement documentation for ICB contracts and for the first three LCB
contracts for civil works costing US$200,000 and above, and for the first



- 42 -
three contracts for goods valued US$100,000 and above. All other contracts
would be reviewed in the field during Bank supervision missions. Because of
the nature of the subproject financing under this project, it would be
difficult to estimate the precise number of contracts that would fall above
the prior review thresholds. Of the available sample subprojects, roughly 20
percent of the total number of contracts are valued above US$200,000.
8.09        Pilot Program.  The components of the pilot program would be
defined based on the recommendations of the ongoing reform studies.
Nonetheless, it is anticipated that financing would be required for the
investments in goods, works, or services which would be procured based on the
procurement procedures and threshold limits discussed in paras. 8.05-8.08
above. Total contract amounts falling under the different procurement methods
would be estimated together with the details of the pilot program investments
to be submitted to the Bank by June 15, 1992 (para. 6.34).
C. Status of Preparation
8.10        The Government is starting the bidding procedures for about 18
hospital rehabilitation subprojects as agreed with the Bank. Part of the
financing for these subprojects would be submitted for retroactive financing.
Considering the urgency of some of the rehabilitation works, the Government is
according this project a very high priority as reflected by its commitment to
advance some of the required financing while the Bank loan is being internally
reviewed and processed (para. 8.15). The Government has also made progress in
the hiring of the appropriate PCU staff and the individual consultants needed
for some of the technical assistance studies.
D. Disbursements and Accounts
8.11        The proposed project is expected to be completed by December 1995
and the loan fully disbursed by June 1996, i.e. over a period of four years
which is shorter than the Bank's average country profile for Chile (6 years).
The estimated loan disbursement distribution is shown in Table 8.1; the
quarterly disbursement profile is shown in Annex 10, Table 7. This shorter
period takes into account the fact that the hospital rehabilitation
subprojects are small expenditures which would not require long bidding
procedures. Many of the technical assistance studies are already underway;
some of them are critical to speeding up the Bank's review of the aubsequent
HSRP. Hence most of these studies are of short duration. The operational
experience gained by the PCU since October 1990 would also facilitate
disbursement flows of the loan proceeds.
8.12        The PCII would manage the disbursement of the loan funds.  Upon
approval of each hospital rehabilitation subproject, the PCII would oversee the
authorization of the transfer of required loan financing to the budget of the
concerned HSAs. The PCU would review and keep a summary of the NSA disburse-
ments to facilitate requests for Bank reimbursements of the opecial account
and subsequent loan audit. The HSAs would keep all the records and supporting
papers required of each subproject expenditure. Annexes 8 and 12 illustrate
the different steps Anticipated in the budget, procurement, and disbursement
cycle involving the PCU and the HSAs. Appropriate models of internal
Government memorenda and forms needed to obtain the required decisions to
allocate funds fromt one level to the next have becn drafted and incorporated



- 43 -
in the PCU Operations Manual. The allocation of loan amount and the
disbursement percentages are summarized in Table 8.2.
8.13        Withdrawal applications for expenditures under contracts valued
below US$200,000 would be based on Statements of Expenditures; supporting
documentation would be retained by the PCU for review by Bank supervision
missions and for annual audits. All other disbursements would be fully
documented. A PPF of US$750,000 (P-160-CH) would be refinanced under this
loan.
8.14        SRecial Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank
of Chile. The Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$ 2.0 million,
the average four month project financing requirement, to the Special Account
upon request. Project expenditures would be monitored by the PCU. The PCU
would request replenishment of the Special Account on the basis of the
standard disbursement procedures.
Table 8.2: DISBURSEMENT OF IBRD LOAN
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           Percent of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Fianced
Civil Works                     5,130,000      35 percent of local expenditures
Goods, Equipment,              13,590,000      100 percent of foreign
Furniture, Vehicles                            expenditures, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75 percont of local
expenditures for items
procured locally
Studies and Training            2,070,000      100 percent of expenditures
Pilot Program                   1,260,000      Similar percentages for worke,
goods and services ae shown
above
Project Administration          1,620,000      100 percent of expenditures
Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance               750,000
Unallocated                     2,580,0OO
TotAl                          27,000,000
FY93        FY94    Y Y95
Annual                         11.4        10.4          3.7         1.5
Cumulative                     11.4        21.8        25.5         27.0



- 44 -
8.15        Retroactive Financint.  The project would provide retroactive
financing of up to US$2.7 million (10 percent of the proposed loan) for
expenditures incurred after July 15, 1991. Retroactive financing is needed to
allow the Government to start as soon as possible the most urgent hospital
rchabilitation cubprojects and selected 6tudle6.
E. Audits
8.16        Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the pro4ect loan
account, SOEs. and Special Account would be audited bv an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The auditor would audit all project components,
including those to be implemented by the HSAs which would maintain separate
subproject accounts. The Bank would require that the auditor apply auditing
standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank and conforming to generally
accepted auditing practices; carry out its work in a timely manner, i.e., an
annual report would be presented no later than four months after the end of
each calendar year; and render an audit opinion or the reasons whereby such
opinion cannot be rendered. The Government furnished the Bank for its review
detailed auditing procedures for both the PCU and HSA accounts.
F. Prolect Honitorine. Evaluation and Suoervision
8.17 Overall monitoring and evaluation of the project would be the
responsibility of the PCU. Specific tasks includet (a) preparing quarterly
report on the physical and financial status of the hospital rehabilitation
subprojects to be submitted to the Bank no later than the first week of the
following quarter; (b) preparing annual implementation progress report and
work plan, which would be submitted to the Bank by December 30 of each year;
(c) reviewing and updating every six months the Action Plan; and (d) preparing
a Project Completion Report (PCR) that would be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing date of the Loan.
8.18 In addition, the Bank and the Government would hold two major project
reviews:  (a) an  tioPlan  Status Review by July 30, 1992 to take stock of
the progreso of compliance with the target dates of the activities included in
the Action Plan; and (b) a Mid-Term Review by June 30, 1993 to evaluate, among
others, (i) the implementation progress of the hospital rehabilitation
component; (ii) the subproject eligibility criteria taking into account tth
recommendations of the relevant technical assistance studies; and (iii) the
abnorption of appropriate PCI functiono in the relevant departments of the
NOH. The subproject eligibility criteria would be revised, as appropriate,
based on the conclusions of this review. The terms of reference for these
reviewo are shown in Annex 13.
e.19 The project Is anticipated to require intensive supervision especially
in the initaal implementation year because of its non-standard design and the
fact that this would be the Bank's first operation in the Chile hoelth sector.
Supervision arrangements are expected to require about 18 stfweeks in the
first year, 15 staffweeko in the secord year, and 12 steffweeks thereafter.
G. Environmental Iact
8.20 The project would not have any significant impact on the environment.
Standard safety procedures wGuld be followed in the implementation of the
civil works, and the installation and operation of the medical equipment



- 45 -
supplied under the project. Procedures for safe handling of hazardous wastes
and materials (e.g., disposable needles, blood-contaminated products) would be
included in continuing education programs for health personnel.
H.  Iwaaet oi Women
8.21 The upgrading of facilities and medical equipment under the project
would be gender neutral. However, the capacity of heaith facilities to manage
appropriately complications of delivery (the major causes of maternal
mortality) would be improved through upgrading of physical infrastructure and
equipment. In addition, the special program on the promotion of women's
reproductive health which would be designed under the project would generate
specific benefits directed toward women.
IX. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
9.01 The proposed project has started to generate benefits even at the
preparation stage. As discussed above, the Government has adopted some of the
major reconmendations of the PPF-financed stage of the technical assistance
studies (e.g., balanced orientation of the health care system and specific
choices on health financing allocation and cost-recovery systems). These
qualitative choices would guide the various policy and institutional reforms
that would be designed and, as appropriate, pilot-tested under the proposed
loan. The elaboration of these reforms coupled with the initial inveostments
on the most pressing hospital rehabilitation needs, would initiate the
achievement of the sector's medium-term objectives which includet increased
efficiency in resource utilization in the public health sector, improved
quality at all levels of care, enhanced ability to respond to the new health
challenges of an aging population, and increased equity of access to health
services through, among others, a better definition and fulfillment of the
respective roles of the public and the private sector in health care financing
and delivery.
9.02 The improvement of the basic services and facilities of about 17 public
hospitals in Hetropolitan Santiago would lelp restore to a functional level
some of the dilaplidated capital stock of the health sector. The focus on
Metropolitan Santlago is important considering that 40 percent of Chile's
population lives in the area; many of the families belong to tho lower-income
groups of the city's rural and marginal periurban areas and are the benefi-
ciaries of the public hospital services; and the public hospitals in
Metropolitan Santiago usually sorve patients from the other regions of the
country. Apart from its direct health benefits, the improvement of the
facilities would help create a receptive environment for the implementation of
some of the diffliult policy and Institutional reforms being prepared under
the project. Alai), the involvement of the HSAs in the choice and actual
Implementation of small hospital subprojects would constitute lnservice train-
ing for the subsecluent larger Investments in the sector, and more importantly,
would start to put into effect the decentralization of decisions with respect
to health service delivery in Chile.



- 46 -
B. Risks
9.03 The major risks include: (a) the complexity of most reforms especially
in the area of health financing; (b) the long-term horizon of the sector
reforms, most of which would be fully implemented either towards the end of
the current Government's tenure or during the next administration; and (c) the
lack of project implementation experience, especially of the HSAs and hospital
managers. These risks would be minimized by the direct involvement and close
supervision by the Bank at the different stages of the elaboration of the
reforms including a periodic review of the Action Plan; pilot testing of the
critical recommendations to ensure a feasible design; ample public
dissemination and discussions of the proposed reforms to ensure broad
consensus; institution of a Mid-Term Project Review by the Bank and the
Government to evaluate the implementation progress of the rehabilitation
works, as well as the completion of the activities and conditions of the
Action Plan; and technical assistance and supervision to be provided by the
PCU to the HSAs, as well as the training under the project. Also, the project
design has taken into account some of the lessons learned in Bank- and other
organization-financed health projects, emphasizing a phased approach and
built-in flexibility to institute complex reforms and to meet the medium-term
investment requirements of the health sector.
X. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.1 The Government submitted the following documents for Bank's review and
agreement:
(a) a copy of Ministerial Resolution No. 1366 dated October 29, 1991
which adopted the recommendations of the Study on the Reorientation of
the Health Care System to serve as a framework for future investments in
the sector (para. 6.15);
(b) a Training Plan for the improvement of management and technical
skills, as well as information dissemination of policy and institutional
reform recommendations (para. 6.33);
(c) a copy of Ministerial Resolution Nos. 2087 and 1317 dated December
31, 1990 and August 29, 1991, respectively creating the expanded PCU and
naming a Project Coordinator (para. 8.01);
(d) final draft of the PCU Operations Manual (para. 8.02);
(e) final draft of the HSA Implementation Manual (para. 8.03);
(f) draft umbrella Subsidiary Agreement between the MOH and the HSA
participating in the project, and draft specific subproject agreement
(para. 8.03); and
(g) detailed auditing procedures for both the PCU and the HSA accounts
(para. 8.16).
10.2  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Government would complete the specific studies, review with the
Bank the corresponding recommendations, and carry out as appropriate the



- 47 -
measures agreed with the Bank by the dates specified in the Action Plan
(para. 6.11);
(b) the information network design for the MOH and the health centers
would be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30, 1992 for its
review and approval, and commence implementation no later than October
15, 1992 (para. 6.32);
(c) every June 15 and December 15 of each year the Government would
furnish the Bank for its review and approval the detailed training
activities planned to be carried out the following semester (para.
6.33);
(d) the Government would submit a list of eligible investments for the
Pilot Implementation Program no later than June 15, 1992 (para. 6.34);
(e) the MOH would apply the subproject selection criteria agreed with
the Bank (para. 6.38);
(f) the first 18 subprojects and subprojects costing US$250,000 and
above would be sent to the Bank for prior review (para. 6.39 and 6.40);
(g) no later than June 30, 1992 the Government would furnish the Bank a
time-bound plan for the integration of the PCU functions to the
appropriate MOH agencies, departments/divisions and/or HSAs (para.
8.01);
(h) the Government would maintain the PCU with staffing satisfactory to
the Bank for the duration of the project (para. 8.02);
(i) an auditor satisfactory to the Bank would carry out the auditing of
the project loan account, SOEs, and the Special Account; and an audit
report would be presented to the Bank no later than four months after
the end of each calendar year (para. 8.16); and
(j) the Government and the Bank would hold an Action Plan Status Review
by July 30, 1992 to take stock of the progress of compliance with the
dates of the activities included in the Action Plan; and a Mid-Term
Review by June 30, 1993 to evaluate, among others, (i) the
implementation progress of the hospital rehabilitation component; (ii)
the subproject eligibility criteria taking into account the
recommendations of the relevant technical assistance studies; and (iii)
the absorption of appropriate PCU functions in the relevant departments
of the MOH (para. 8.17).
10.3  For Loan Effectiveness, the Bank would require that:
(a) the Japanese Grant Agreement be signed by the Government and the
Bank as administrator of the Grant Fund, or an alternative arrangement
satisfactory to the Bank would have been made by the Government to
finance the appropriate project components (para. 7.04);
(b) the PCU Operations Manual and the HSA Implementation Manual be
adopted by the Government (paras. 6.38, 8.02 and 8.03).



- 48 -
10.4 Conditions of Disbursements:
(a) The first disbursement to each HSA participating in the project
would be subject to the signing of an umbrella Subsidiary Agreement between
the HOH and the HSA with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. A
specific subproject agreement would also need to be signed between the MOH and
each HSA before disbursements can be made for each subproject (para. 8.03).



- 49 -
CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNEXES 1 THROUGH 14



-50 -                                     Annex 1
Table 1
Annex 1, Table 1: CHILE - CRUDE BIRTH
RATES, CRUDE DEATH RATES, INFANT
MORTALITY RATES, 1945-1989
Crude Birth                 Crude Death              Infant Mortality
Year                     Rate                        Rate                         Rate
1945                    35.5                          19.1                          165.0
1950                    34.3                          14.8                          136.0
1955                    36.0                          12.9                          117.0
1960                    37.0                          12.3                          120.0
1965                    36.3                          10.8                           95.0
1970                    27.9                           8.9                           79.0
1975                    25.0                           7.3                           55.0
1980                    22.8                           6.6                           32.0
1981                    23.0                           6.2                           27.0
1982                    23.8                           6.1                           23.6
1983                    22.2                           6.3                           21.9
1984                    22.2                           6.3                           19.6
1985                    21.6                           6.1                           19.5
1986                    22.1                           5.9                           19.1
1987                    22.3                           5.6                           18.5
1988                    23.3                           5.8                           18.9
1989                    23.4                           5.8                           17.1
Source: Chilean HiniscL7 of Bealth.



- 51-                                   Annex 1
Table 2
Annex 1, Table 2: CHILE - PRINCIPAL
CAUSES OF DEATH, 1980-1988
1980            1982           1984           1986           19788-
Total Nu=ber      73,710           70,041         74,669          72,209          74,435
CAUSE OFS DEATE      z               I              z                z              z
of              of             of              D0f             of
total           total          total           total            total
Heart Diseases    26.6              27.6            28.4           27.4           27.9
Malignant
Tumors            15.4            16.8            16.1           17.5           18.0
Accidents and
Violence         11.9            12.2            12.3           12.2           12.1
Acute
Respiratory
Diseases           9.5             8.5            10.5           11.0           12.0
Ill-defined
Conditions        9.6             8.6             8.5            8.3            7.1
Diseases of the
Digestive
System             8.1             8.6             8.7            7.4            6.5
Infectious
and Parasitic
Diseases           4.8             3.8             3.6            3.5            3.5
Conditions
Originating in
Perinatal
Period            4.3             3.6             2.5            2.5            2.5
Diseases of the
Genitourinary
System            2.3             2.1             2.2            2.2            2.4
Endocrine and
Metabolic
Diseases          2.5             2.8             2.4            2.4            2.2
All Other            5.0              5.4             4.8           5.6             5.8
Source: Chllean 8.n1s5ry oE Heacth



- 52 -                                    Annex 1
Table 3
Annex 1 Table 3: CHILE - NUMBER AND
TYPE OF CONSULTATIONS, 1989
Region                Primary Care and         Emergency Consultations      Huaber of Emergercy Consultations
Specialty Consultations       Per Population Group            Per 104 Oth.- Consultations
Per Population Group
_nf__ _4_ iet.i..    Aiultl      Znfa.%  V.Lrn-i    "Wit        Want      Ft.1.        A4..t
Total Chilo     1.53      0.26      1.01         0.74   0.20       0.41        48.46        78.07       40.77
Metropolitan
Santiago
Norte        1.98      0.28      1.05         0.79    0.11      0.06        40.13        39.48       5.73
Occidonto    1.68      0.26      0.98         0.82    0.17      0.40        48.56        66.50      40.91
Central      1. 15     0.22      0.59         1.05   0.18       0.64        91.08        81.80    107.63
Oriente      1.16      0.17      0.69         0.50    0.08    0.16          43.41        45.37      23.71
Sur          1.55      0.19      0.88         0.80    0.19      0.39        51.83        98.71      44.85
Sur-Oriento    __       __         __          __        _        _-          __          __         __
Source: Chilean Minlstry of Health
a... not includs conalt.ti,oa w.V  nutritioniets.
FWANri Paron wnde. 1.  oef age
HA1'ONAL: fmaule o, aS fi   yA,a of age
ADULT: *..ernson*-r L. YP 00 aes



53                                        Annex 1
Table 4A
Annex 1, Table 4A: CHILE - NUMBER OF
HOSPITAL BEDS AND OCCUPANCY RATES
IN CHILE, 1981-1989
Year       Total Public and Private                 Public                     Private
-a Znuis ccancy              #* tusa cc           u    a r Lo3 cuuC
Nugmb*r  PYcaC Rr.              UNumber  3.2o.Li.ri.s -t.    uber Th aef drA. .   Rare
1981    37,547    3.31        73.9      33,692    3.34       75.0      3,855    3.10       64.0
1982    38,254    3.37        73.9      33,904    3.34       75.6      4,350    3.14       60.7
1983    38,783    3.31        73.8      33,794    3.31       76.0      4,989    3.27       58.6
1984    41,100    3.45        73.8      33,642    3.28       75.8      7,458    4.46       64.7
1985    42,224    3.48        73.0      33,435    3.24       75.2      8,789    4.84       64.5
1986    42,288    3.43        73.1      33,103    3.19       74.8      9,185    4.65       66.9
1987    41,827    3.33        72.2      32,594    3.13       73.8      9,233    4.33       66.6
1988    43,049    3.37        73.7      32,850    3.14       75.9    10,199    4.44        66.6
1989    43,184    3.33        72.6      32,818    3.16       75.5    10,366    4.00        63.5
Annex 1, Table 4B: CHILE - NUMBER OF
HOSPITAL BEDS AND OCCUPANCY RATES
IN METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO, 1989
Region            Total Public and Private              Public                       Private
OccgayOccocy                                             OC;iupaety
*jmer        ta.       .       umbr         t      _     umbet    _ t_.
Total Chile          43,184        72.6          32,818        75.5         10,366         63.5
Metropolitan
Santiago
Norte             3,481        77.6           2,470         81.0           1,011       69.5
Occidente         2,140        78.0           1,789         79.6             351       70.3
Central           2,435        70.4           1,145         78.5           1,290       63.1
Oriente           5,214        71.9           2,062         84.5           3,152       63.6
Sur               3,005        83.1           2,675         83.5             330       79.6
Sur-Oriente       1,409        78.7           1,048         79.2             361       77.2
Source: Chilean Ministry of Health



- 54 -                                 Annex 1
Table SA
Annex 1, Table 5A: CHILE - HOSPITAL
DISCHARGES: CHILE, 1978-1989
Year                   Public Sector                         Private-Sector
ODicha,g44    D ach.,g..    A..e  L.ng;tL  DLarts   Oischa'g.s,  A..F)g L,noth
P., 9.d      of Stay                      Pae Bed     of Stay
1978        938,232         28.3         9.6 
1979        971,712         28.3         9.4               __       _-         __
1980        993,090         29.3         9.7               --       --          --
1981      1,005,732         29.9         9.0 
1982      1,028,013         30.3         8.7                -       --         --
1983      1,046,337         31.0         8.7            162,163    32.5        --
1984      1,006,509         29.9         8.1            214,074    28.7        --
1985      1,003,261         30.0         8.4            256,312     29.2       --
1986      1,003,544         30.3         8.5            269,395    29.3        7.6
1987      1,018,486         31.2         8.2           281,130    30.4         7.2
1988      1,069,954         32.6         8.3            301,946    29.6        7.2
1989      1,076,513         32.8         7.9            306,580    29.6        7A0
Annex 1, Table 5B: CHILE - HOSPITAL
DISCHAR(GES: METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO,
1978-1989
RegLon                   PublLc Sector                          Private Sector
Oiachshr'C  Oec) .cheraW.    A-ao- Len.th.?  O3acchaoeag   Di;pch AA -*Page
Total Chile   1,076,513          32.8       7.9             306,580         29.6      7.0
metropolLtan
SantLago
Norte           37,497       1S.2       26.3              29,238        28.9       7.4
Occidente       66,436       37.1        6.4               1,699         4.8      38.2
Central         45,887       40.1        6.5              46,270        35.9       5.4
Oriente         54,477       26.4       10.1              93,809        29.8       7.0
Sur             76,194       28.5        8.7               1,590         4.8      37.8
Sur-Oriente   36,356         34.7        7.6                 58G         1.6    162.4
Source: Chii lean Ministry of Health



- 55 -                               Annex 1
Tables 6 & 7
Annex 1, Table 6: PUBLIC SECTOR
MEDICAL PERSONNEL, 1978-1989
Year       Physicians              Nurses              Auxiliary Personnel   Total
Number  Per Thousand   Number  Per Thousand   Number  Per Thousand    Number
Persons               Persons                 Persous
1978     5,248      0.49        2,550      0.24         21,389    1.98       29,187
1979     5,671      0.52        2,780      0.25         21,286    1.94       29,737
1980     4,128      0.37        2,509      0.23         23,136    2.08       29,773
1981     4,128      0.36        2,509      0.22         23,136    2.04       29,773
1982     5,416      0.47        2,717      0.24         23,172    2.01       31,305
1983     5,527      0.47        2,710      0.23         23,277    1.99       31,514
1984     6,067      0.51        2,777      0.23         23,346     1.96      32,190
1985     5,549      0.46        2,800      0.23         23,589    1.95       31,938
1986     5,928      0.48        2,715      0.22         23,377    1.90       32,020
1987     5,744      0.46        2,461      0.20         21,943    1.75       30,148
1988     5,348      0.42        2,186      0.17         20,418    1.60       27,952
1989     5,438      0.42        2,367      0.18         20,089    1.55       27,894
Source: Chilean Ministry of Health
DOES NOT INCLO.Ei pereaunal in Ludependeot orsautatctous (suca .* ?ONASA)
or parsoowl it tbhe m&chulpalt1..
Annex 1, Table 7: CHILE - PUBLIC HEALTH
FINANCING, 1980-1990
YEAR                              PERCENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS
Income from                   sales of     Central CoV%rnemLt    Income From
Operations     Transfers     Treasury Bonds    Allocations   Other Sources
1980        7.0             28.4             4.6            54.5             5.4
1981        7.2             26.7             10.8            50.2            5.1
1982        7.4             26.0             10.6            46.4            9.6
1983        6.7             31.4             13.0            45.1            3.9
1984        6.1             34.9             12.9            44.2            2.0
1985        5.5             34.3            13.4             43.4            3.4
1986        5.2             39.5             13.0            39.5            2.8
1987        5.5             41.2             10.0            40.3            3.0
1988        7.4             40.3             10.7            38.6            3.0
1989        5.6             46.7             9.3             35.2            3.2
1990        5.0             45.0             8.0            39.0             3.0
Source: Chilean Ministry of Health



Annex 1
- 56 -                                              Tables 8 & 9
Annex 1, Table 8: CHILE - PUBLIC HEALTH
EXPENDITURES, 1980-1990
YEAR                                  PERCENT OF TOTAL EXPENDITURES
U ses                 Other                      C5pLtsI.
Recurrant                  Expenditures
Expenditures
Hog         FIID
1980        40.9                  54.0                     4.2          0.85
1981        42.3                  53.6                     3.1          0.94
1982        39.5                  57.1                     2.6          0.80
1983        40.7                  57.7                     0.96         0.64
1984        39.8                  57.7                     1.9          0.54
1985        39.0                  58.1                     2.5          0.31
1986        38.5                  58.2                     1.7          1.63
1987        37.4                  59.0                     1.6          2.04
1988        33.5                  60.6                     2.3          3.64
1989        33.1                  59.4                     2.9          4.55
1990        32.5                  62.5                     2.1          2.84
Source: Chileco Hiaistry of Healtb
Annex 1, Table 9: CHILE - PUBLIC SECTOR
HOSPITAL BEDS: METROPOLITAN
SANTIAGO REGION, 1990
Number of                    Beds Per
Hospital                          Seds                       Thousend
NORTE                               1,887                       1.50
San Jose                             464
Roberto del Rio                      366
Pilquattico                          952
Caupolican Pardo Correa               95
OCCIDENTE                           1,789                       1.76
Sen Juan de Dios                     786
Felix Bulnee                         511
rTaumatologico                       21'
Malipillb                            168
CENTRAL                             1,145                       2.02
San  orja Arrlaran                   862
Aiestencia Public&                   203
ORIENTE                             2,053                       2.00
El Salvador                        1,019
Luis Calvo flacklena                 354
Inst. Neuroctrugla                   149
loerycit                             260
SUtR                                2,329                       2.20
barros luco Trudeau                  91o
txequiel Gonzales Corte&             231
SUtR ORIENTE                          998                       1.02
Sotero del Rio                 _     699
TOTAL REGION             l0,201                                 1 .94
TOTAL COUNTRY                      32,127                       2.44
Source: Chilean Hinitery of Eeilth



Annex I
Table 10
Annex 1. Table 10: CHILE - PUBLIC SECTOR
HOSPITALS CONSTRUCTION DATE AND
SIZE: METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO
REGION, 1989
Yeav of                                Size
Hospital                                    Constructiou                              Cm)
NORTE
San Jose                                    1850                                    19,089
Roberto del Rio                             1938                                    22,429
Paiquatrico                                 1920                                    18,622
Caupolican Pardo Correa                     1920                                     8.897
OCCIDENTE
San Juan de Dias                            1950                                    24,199
Fellx alunea                                1934                                    23,213
Tratnatologico                              1937                                     7,938
Ifelipilla                                   1985                                    7,366
CENTRAL
San Horja Attlaran                          3973                                    34,850
Asistencia Publica                          1965                                    20,132
ORIENTE
El Salvador                                 1896                                    52,934
1xis Calvo Hackenna                         1942                                    17,387
%nst. NeurociLrgla                          1952                                     7,836
Inerycit                                    1954                                     8,791
SUR
aarros Luco Trudeau                         1914                                    41,795
Exequlel Gonzal*e Corteos                   1940                                     9,220
SbR ORIEINTE
Sotero del Rio                               1936                                   34,438
sounGet Chilean Hinistry of tflalth



- 58 -                                              Annex  1
Table 11
Annex 1, Table 11: CHILE - PUBLIC
HOSPITAL ACTIVITY: METROPOLITAN
SANTIAGO REGION, 1989
San Jose                                                             Roberto del Rio
Number of Beds                        464                            Number of Beds                          366
Number of Admissions              22,026                             Number of Admissions                10,708
Occupancy Rate                      85.70                            Occupaay Rate                        69.10
Average Length of Stay               6.00                            Average Length of Stay                 7.40
Psiputatrico                                                         CauS,cfIean tardo Correa
Numbet of Beds                        952                            Number of Beds                           95
Number of Admissions                2,347                            Number of Admissions                 2,079
Occupaicy Pate                      83.70                            Occupany Rate                        68.10
Average Length of Stay            232.00                             Average Length of Stay                8.50
San Juan de Dios F9relix Bulnes
Number of Beds                        786                            Number of Beds                          511
Number of Admiassons              28,592                             r(umber of Admissions               21,' ;
Occupancy Rate                      80.70                            occupany Bate                        86.40
Average Length of Stay               6.79                            Average Length of Stay                6.23
Number of beds                        214                            Number of Beds                          168
Number of Admissions                2,689                            Number of Admissions                 7,Y96
Occupancy Rate                      65.40                            Occupany Rate                        72.10
Avarage Length of Stay              11.9                             Average Length of Stay                 5.23
6s.tsteneis, Publiclc
Number of beds                        862                            Number of Bedo                          283
N.,nber cii Adilesions             35,233                            Number of Admietnons                10,655
Occupancy Rate                      77.30                            Occupany Rate                        69.70
Average Length of Stay               6.10                            Average Length ot Stay                11.70



Annex 1
- 59 -                                              Table  11  (Cont'd
Annex 1, Table 11: CHILE - PUBLIC
HOSPITAL, ACTIVITY: METROPOLITAN
SANTIAGO REGION, 1989 (Cont'd)
Luis Calvo Kackenns
Number of Beds                       1,019                            Number of Beds                           354
Number of Admissions               35,602                             Number of Admissions                  10,876
Occupancy Rate                      85.70                             Occupany Rate                         80.80
Average Length of Stay                8.60                            Average Length of Stay                  7.10
Institute Neurocirugia                                                    Ine rve t
Number of Beds                         149                            Number of Beds                           260
Number of Admissions                2,450                             Number of Admissions                  3,268
Occupancy Rate                       85.40                            Occupany Rate                         81.30
Average Length of Stay               17.40                            Average Length of Stay                 21.50
Uarros Luco Trudeau           .zeguiel Gonzales Cortes
Number of Beds                         912                            Number of Beds                           231
Number of Admissions               35,427                             Number of Admissions                  9,733
Occupancy Rate                      82.42                             Occupany Rate                         73.70
Average Length of Stay                7.26                            Average Length of Stay                  5.84
Sotaro del Rtio
Number of Beds                         6S9
Number of Admiesions               .34,691
Occupancy Rate                       85.10
Avorage Length of Stay                5.90
SoQueez Chilean Hlintstry of Health



Annex 1
- 60-                                 Tables 12 & 13
Annex 1, Table 12: CHILE - LOCATION OF
HEALTH CARE FACILITIES:
METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO REGION, 1989
Region        Type One    Type Two    Type Three   Type Four    Urban    Rural
Hospitals   Hospitals   Hospitals    Hospitals   Clinics  Clinics
Norte            0             4               0              1          9          5
Occidente         1            3               2              I         13          5
Central           1             1              0              0          7           0
Oriente           1            3               1              1         14          0
Sur               1            1               4             0          21         12
Sur-Oriente       1            0               1             0          12          8
Source: Chilean ministry of Health
Annex 1, Table 13: CHILE - WAITING
PERIOD FOR HOSPITALIZATION:
METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO REGION, 1991
Average Waiting Period              Mlaximum Waiting Period
Clinical Service                   (days)                             (days)
Medicine                            8.7                                  548
Surgery                            21.4                                  548
Ophthalmology                     126.9                            over two years
Otorhinolaryngology                98.0                            over two years
Gynaecology                        28.2                                  276
Traumatology                       38.8                            over two years
Neurology                           8.4                                  276
Urology                            92.6                                  548
Nourosurgery                       15.4                                  276
Pediatrics                          2.6                                  276
Infant Surgery                     72.0                            over two years
Source: Chilean Mita.try of Health



Annex 1, Figure 1: CHILE - HEALTH
SECTOR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
PUBLIC SECTOR                                                               PRIVATE SECTOR
MOH
CENTRAL                                                     O UP ERINTENDENCY
I.S.P                    FONASA                                         ISAPRES
.CONTROLIAUDIT)
H OS P TA LS
SEREMI                     S.N.S.S.                                       CLINtCS
*    L             t           |    * *        |  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~TECHNICAL flEOULATIOtJ MCLNC 
liNTIRIECTORAL          IINITITUTIONA
U SD ALITY)
COORDINATION)
ITECHNICAL UPE RVISIONI
HiOSPITAL                       AMBULATORY
.  I     . I               I  ~~~~CENTERS |
PNIUAeY CARE             H            MUHICIPAL ADMINIE7RATION
CLINICS
HEALTH POSTS



Annex 1,. igure 2: CHILE - MINISTRY OF
HEALTH ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
MINISTE  |                      ABINE7T
UNDERSECRETARY
|  ADMIN. AND INTERNAL         LEGAL COUNSEL
SERVICE DEPT.
INTERNAL      MULTILTERAL          NATIONAL
PLANNING AND BUDGET         PROGRAMING        RELATIONS                        COOPERATION
PLA .......                          PRIMARY                                   I
CARE
MOH  WB      MOH- iDB
|LPROGRAMMING  |                   q PROGRAMS
_      _ _ETENVI-                                                                            I
HUMAN RESOURCES                      RONMENT     NATIONAL        ISAPRES SUPER-           CENTRAL
HEALTH FUND      INTENDENCY               SUPPL
r_PHYSICAL RESOURCES                                                                        FACILITY
S   S       U  ~  ~~  ~   ~~ Sv  VV                t55X2
TAIIAPAA  ASITOAQASTA  TACAMA cOas15SO VAAAJO OS.   00V  MAUL*  No so  ARAUJCAIM  LOS LXAGOS  AIN MGLAi 
HEATHL                                                        IV  L  CO     I
ANFAGASTA    ATACAMA r       S. ANT.        s 30r  MAIL   AAUCO  AM=    5V.    AVOfN  MAOALLAE
SEQYICE                                  
AREAS                                  X M v.Y
ULCM                         CLI* L   c|niAr                TALCAHUAJ   ooSw
3.- f-  "m                    AlM          L UANUA
Om.OE
S. .X.     OM AIOE                                             |
5-H



Annex 1, Figaure 3:
FLOW OF FUNDS
PUBLIC HEALTH SECTOR
PUBLIC FUNDS:                                      J SOCIAL
GENERAL REVENUES, ETC.                              SECURITY
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
| OFFICE OF THE BUDGET I              OF7%
| MINISTRY OF HEALTH           F -NAM
z  |            ~~~~~THE INTERIOR  
FAPEM    REGIONAL
GOVERNMENTS
| HEALTH SERVICES   9|MUNICIPALITIES |
-Fp              FA"00
4SAP
|  OThER |                                           i|OHEW7c|
|REVENIUES |j OPTL         CONSUMABLES |           REVENUES    w
2_or_Wmmm



Annex 1, Chart 1: CHILE - HEALTH
SERVICES BENEFICIARIES BY TYPE OF
PROVIDER, 1989
18.5 million)  67%
ISAPRES
1 5%'  (1.8 million)
FONASA
1 8o  (2.2 million)
Distribution of Beneficiaries
Source: Chilean Ministry of Health
" F-



Annex 2: CHILE - TECH2NICAL ASSISTANCE
STUDIES IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
AND SOURCE OF FINANCING
Oct-Doc    Jan-Mar   Apr-June   July-Sept    Oct-Dec   Jan-Mar  Apr-June   July-Sept
_  90      91         91          91          91        92        92         92
SOURCE  - -    _- ___---    --                                            - - -  _
STAHRP             JoF_
foo.e "  -n                                                                    -
Z- &,,tm Odc So"
3w. Cow  Cm  -m-
FSneh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
2.    , NP. .Vvieihg                                                                                    w
3. 5HoM Uct  S
s   ym
3. Stm.g"Mh Cl t*                                                                                          _
3. H.d t Fadt_ N                                                                                            _
atl faWttg tt, t Um                                                                                      _
4.                                                                                    (pl2. Tim1
S. h,udigo o flRAC
6. nE_g of -aC                                                                    -                                     X
2.M tvugh.*.                                      -        
Y. Stwgis*, t                                                               t______



Annex 3: CHILE - PROJECT ACTION PLAN
P R O J E C T    A C T I O N       P LA N
:            OBJECTIVES                                    A CTIONS                             TIIMETABLE                       STATUS/
REMARKS
:1. OEVELOPNNET OF POLICTY            ;
:   TNSTTLTSIOKAL REFORRS
A A.  REORIENTATION OF THE HEALTH :A.1  Approval and adoption by the Goverrrent  :A.1  No later than              :A.1 Completed
CAUE DELIVERY SISTER                of the satisfactory recommuendations of           July 30, 1991
:     the Study on the Reorientation of the
:     Health Care System. Reforms woutd include:
ircreased emphasis on the development      :
e     of outpatient, arbulatory care andr
:     increasing the capacity of primary
:     health care facilities to address
:     the community's health care needs.
:   S.  HEALTH FINANCING              :8.1  Coarletion of the rnatysis and              :8.1 No later than        :B.1  Coffpleted
:     recormendations for reforming the                July 31, 1991
:     cost recovery and financial resource       :
:     m: chanisms of the health sector.
:8.2  Caipteticn of the stutdy on the cost        :8.2 No later than                                            ;
:     structure of health services. CoWpletion :    June 30, 1992           :
:     of the design and implementation
mechanisms of the options chosen from    :                            :8.2  Studies underway
the recormendations of the above studies.:
:8.3  Start pilot test of the recommendations  :8.3 No later than
of the studies on cost recovery and        :   October 30, 1992
financial resource mechanisms
:8.4  Adoption by the Governrent of the
fotlowing reforms:
- increase from 5% to 10% the share        :    - No later than       .      - Coapleted
:     of paid beds to the number of total         :      July 31,1991
beds in a public hospital.
:  Establishment of appropriate            :    - No later than
mechanisms to increase the                 :       June 30, 1992
collection of accident irsurance
proceeds in the public hospitals.
C.  NOR SIRENGTHENING             :C.1  Coapletien of the analysis and proposals :C.1  No later than          :C.1  Studies underway.             :
:     on the proposed pecuniary and              :     March 30, 1992.    :                                     :
non-pecuniary incentives to iffprove the
skills, morale and geographic
:     distribution of health personmet.          :                                                              :
:C.2  Review by the Goverrnent and the Bank of :C.2  No later than          :
:     the above study's recoimendations.         :      April 30, 1992
:C.3  Compietion of draft legal or regulatory  :C.3  No later than
:     changes to irplement recoamerdations        :     June 30, 1992.
:     approved by the MHN.



Annex 3: CHILE - PROJECT ACTION PLAN (Cont'd)
PROJECT  ACTION   PLAN
OBJECTIVES                                 ACTIONS                     :       TIMETABLE                      STATUS/
:  :  :  :   REMARKS
:C.4  Furnish to the Bank a plan of action     :C.4 No later than
with appropriate schedule of the transfer:   June 30, 1992
of PCU functions to the retevant NOH
agecies, departments and/or HSA.
:C.5  Design systes and training programs    :C.5 No later than
to iNprove the normtive, monitoring and:   June 30, 1992
supervision, ard financial innagement
capacity of the Ministry of Health
:C.6  Design informtion system  to facilitate :C.6 No later than
policy decision-mking and monitoring          Jume 30, 1992
of policy ard progran impletmentation.
:C.7  Start inplementation of the information  :C.7 No later than
system iqprovmuten and appropriate NOH   :   October 15, 1992
organizational and administrative changes:
:C.8  Furnish to the Bank for its review and   :C.8 June 15 and Decem-
approval the training activities ptarmed:   ber 15 each year                                                       O
to be carried out for the following
semester.
D. HEALTH SECTOR SUPPLY         :D.1  Caqletion of the analysis and proposals :0.1 No later than         :D.1 Study underway.
:       SYSTEM                            for an efficient supptly system           :   March 30, 1992
for pharmaceuticals, equipment. and food
supplements; streamline the
organization and operations of
the CentraL Supply Facility.
:0.2 Review by the Goverrent and the Bank of :D.2 No later than
the above study's recon,wandations.      :   April 30, 1992.
:D.3  Coapletion of draft regulations to       :D.3 No later than
inplement recomemdations approved        :   June 30. 1992
by the Government.
:D.4  Start inplementation of appropriate      :D.4 No later than
system reforms.                          :   February 15, 1993
E. STREAMLINING OF THE        :E.1 Design of systems to inprove the           :E.1 Wo later than       :E.1 Study underway
: PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTE   :    organizationat and operational          :   June 30, 1992         :
efficiency of the Institute of Public
Heatth to ernhnce quality control,       :
especially of drugs.                                                                                              X
:E.2  Start imptemmntation of       riate      :E.2 No later then                                         *o 
organizational and operational reforms   :   February 15, 1993   :
.. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .



Annex 3: CHILE - PROJECT ACTION PLAN (Cont'd)
PROJECT    ACTION                 PLAN
:            C8JECTIVES                                   ACTIONS                     :       TIMETABLE         :              STATUS/
REMARKS
F.  tIW HEIENT OF THE          :F.1  Elaboration of norms and guidelines        :F.1 No later than        :G.1  Completed
:         REGULUTORY FRAJMEWRK FOR  :      to increase the transparency of ISAPRES'        July 30, 1991
:         THE OPERATION OF ISAPRES  :      contracts, financial informztion, and
AND INCREASE OF TRANSPA-  :    mechanisms to resolve conflicts with
:         RENCY OF THE PRIVATE             beneficiaries.:
:         HEALTH INSURARNCE MARKET   :
:F.2  Preparation of technical and legal         :F.2 No tater than        :G.2  Completed
studies to update the ISAPRE Law           :   September 30, 1991
:F.3  Preparation of draft ISAPRE Law            :F.3 No later than       :G.3  Underway
incorporating the changes to be                March 30, 1992
recommended by the above studies (F.2).
:F.4  Elaboration of regulations to              :F.4 No later than       :G.4  Studies umderway
reduce the nexclusions" and "expulsion"  :   March 30, 1992
restrictions in the ISAPRE contracts.
:F.5  Selection of alternatives to finance       :F.5 No later than       :G.5  Studies underway
costs of health care of the elderly            March 30, 1992       :
within the ISAPRE system.
G. MCOERNIZATION OF HOSPITAL   :G.1  Completion of the studies on the             :G.1 No later than        :G.1 Studies underway              :
:       ORGANIZATION                 :     alternative organizational models of       :   March 30, 1992
public hospitats.
:G.2  Design of imptementing details            :G.2 No later than
to carry out the approvel                 :   December 15, 1992
recmenridations of the above studies.
:G.3  Start pilot test of appropriate           :G.3 No later than
recormen dations.                         :   October 15, 1993
H. PNAC EVALUATION               :N.1  Completion of the PNAC Evaluation          :1.1 No later than
Study.                                    :    June 30, 1993
:H.2  Design of implementing details to carry  :H.2 No tater than
:  :  out the approved reconrmendations of the  :   March 15, 1994
:  :  above Study.
:H.3  Start implementation of recomrendations. :H.3 No tater than
September 15, 1994
1.  SPECIFIC PROGRAMS            :3.1  Complete design of pilot action programs :1.1 No tater than          :                                  :
for envirormental health and wioen's           Aprit 30, 1992       :                                   : 
heatth.
:1.2  Start pilot test of above actions.        :1.2 No iater than                                            .         ow
September 15, 1992  :                                   *
.... .... .... .... .... .... .... :.. .... .... .... .... .... .... ... .... .... .... .... .... .... ... :... .... .... .... .... .... ...                4-



Annex 3: CHILE - PROJECT ACTION PLAN (Cont'd)
P R O J E C T   A C T I ON       P L A N
:           OBJECTIVES                                  ACTIONS                    :      TIMETABLE                      STATUS/
REMARKS
:  J.   NITORING AND EVALUATION   :J.1  CompLete nonitoring and evaluation study :J.1 No later than        :J.1 Studies underway
:    and propose health services indicators to:   March 30, 1992
:    be discussed with the Bank.
:  K. POLICY LETTER                 :K.1  Subnission to the Bank of a draft       :Hl.1 No later than
:    policy letter incorporating the          :   July 31, 1992
:    Goverment's coamitment to inplement
:    appropriate policy and institutional
:    reforms as recoamended by the above
:    studies.
:A.1 Analysis of the need for and             :A.1 No later than       :A.1 Studies underway.
:    availability of different types of       :   March 30, 1992
:    health services in Santiago, Antogasta
:    and Llanchipal.
:1                                 :A. Stde uneray
:11. PHYSICAL INVESTMENTS IN       :A.2 Determination of investnent               :A.2 No later than       :A.2 Studies underway.            :
:    METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO,         :    requirements to improve health care           March 30, 1992      :
:    ANTOFAGASTA AND LLANCHIPAL    :    delivery in Santiago, Antofagasta         :                                                          :
and Llanchipal.
:A.3 Coanptetion of engineering studies for   :A.3 No later than
the first year investments reconmended   :   August 30, 1992
:    by the above studies.
:A.  Submission to the Bank of periodic       :A.1 No later than
:     reports on the physical and financial    :   the first week of
:    status of the hospital rehabilitation    :   January, April, July:
subprojects.                                  and October each
year
:A.2  Submission to the Bank of an annual     :A.2 No later than
:111. HOSPITAL REHABILITATION      e    progress report and work plan.            :   December 30 each
:     SUBPROJECTS IN METROPOLITAN:                                                :   year
:     SANTIAGO
:A.3  Canpletion of the the first 18          :A.3 No later than
:    subprojects approved by the Sank before:   Decenter 15, 1992
:    Loan Effectiveness.
:A.4 Disbursement of about 30X of loan        :A.4 No later than
*    amount allocated to hospital             :   June 30, 1993                                          :
:    rehabilitation.                          :Q :
:A.S  Sthuission to the Bank of an assessment  :A.5 No later than      ::
:  :    report on the status of health services  :   June 30, 1993 and   :                               :
:  :  indicators proposed in J.1 above in the  :   June 30, 1995       :
:    17 project hospitals in Metropolitan
:    Santiago.
EJ-11/15/91



70 -                             Annex 4
Page 1 of 9
REFORM OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR HEALTH TNVESTMENTS
This Annex summarizes the major recommendations of the Study on
the Reorientation of the Health Care System. These recommendations have been
approved by the Goverment and will serve as the guideline for investments in
health care establishments in Chile.
BACKGROUND
The Ministry of Health (MOH) initiated a review of the pubLic
health care system for the preparation of the proposed Health Sector Reform
Project to be financed by the World Bank.
The profile of the public health care system consists of a
breakdown by levels of care and types of establishments, taking into account
the geodemographic location, the type of services to be provided and the
referral systems linking them. The review focused on four main issues within
the health care system:
-     health policy
-     epidemiologic profile
-     geoademographic situation
-     potential sector resources
Flexlbility will be required in the application of the results of
the study in order to be able to take local circumstances into account and to
ensure that the instrument developed will be useful within a. general framework
for investment decisions.
RECOMMENDATIONS
OBJECTIVES:
The study has a dual purpose: to design a support instrument for
investment decisions and to contribute to the restructuring of the public
health care system.
The profile seeks to provide guidance in resolving come of the
problems observed in the health care system; L.e. how open' care is valued,
how care can be decentralized and regional autonomy increased, and how levels
of complexity and referrawl systems can be organized through a range of
alternative solutions. The model proposed for solving some of these problems
emphasizes social participation, intersectoral work and decentralizatlon an
basic component. of the care sy'tem.
*     In this document, "open care" refers to outpatient/ambulatory services
and "closed care" to hospitalization (see Table 1). (Tr.)



- 71
Annex 4
Page 2 of 9
The proposed health care system iO organized according to level.
of complexity for open and closed care taking into cQnsideration the following
objectivesz
bringing the care as close as possible to the user, within a
context of cost effectiveness;
providing the services in the lowest possible level of complexity
while maintaining them at an adequate quality level;
ensuring the appropriateness of the "ealth actions;
giving the regions autonomy and thereby contributing to greater
decentralization.
BETflODOLOGY:
For each o;! the propoaed establishments a list was prepared of the
*ervices they could provide, using as guidelines the solving of health
problems in the closes1: level of complexity clooest to the location and
promotion of ambulatory care.
By way of niore specific criteria the following were taken into
consideration: potential demand for care (frequency), availability of
resources, the appropri.ateness of the care, the complementarity of the
activities among themselves, the cost of the services and the patient's
safety.
The 1Lit consists of 2,094 services, grouped lnto direct care
services, laboratory examinatLons, radiological examinations, radiation
treatment, diagnostic and therapeutc procedures, and surgical interventions
in the different medical specialties and dental services.
In the list there is a "yes" by each service when it can be
provided in the establi;hment in question and a blank when not.  "Yes" for the
laboratory examinations refers to the process and not to sample taking.
It is import:ant to bear in mind that the list must be applied wlth
sufficient flexibility i:o take the differing local circumstances into account,
while in light of technological advances the list itself will have to be
periodically reviewed.
In establishsing which areas the proposed health facilLties should
serve the following diff!erent geodemographic circumstances, which prevaLl in
the country, were used:
-     Urban-Rural Areaz  an area consisting of a city of fewer than
10,000 inhabitants plus rural zones with predominantly acattered
population.
-     Small Cityt cities with between 10,000 and 50,000 inhabitants.



- 72-                             Annex 4
Page 3 of 9
intermediate City:  cities with between 50,000 and 100,000
inhabitants.
SLarge City:  cities with over 100,000 inhabitants, including the
major urban areas such as Santiago, Valparaiso-Vina del Mar and
Concepci6n-Talcahuano.
The population size proposed for each establishment is flexible;
the cuiding principle considered for the low-complexity establishments was
accessibility, and for those of greater complexity, optimum size. The
suggested population corresponds to the Public Health System beneficiary
population.
FACIILITY DESCRIPTION:
The proposed establishments are set out in the following table, by
levels of complexity and caze subsystem:
TABLE 1
LE'VEL OF                            CASE SUBSYSTEM
COMPLEXITY            OPEN                         CLOSED
Low              Rural Health Post             Type 4 hospital
Rural Clinic
Urban General Clinic
Medium           Health Referral Center        Type 3 Hospital
High             Diagnostic and                Type 2 Hospital
_ ___________  Therapeutic Center            Type 1 Hospital
A Parasectoral Area, which would have shared responsibility with
the ccmmunity and social organizations, and an Intersectoral Area, which w.ould
have shared responsibilities with the other public agencies, are also
proposed.
A brief description of all the proposed establishments is given
below:
Rural ReAlth Pose (RP): The Rural Health Post is an ambulatory care facility.
it offers easy access to health care for communities of 600 to 2,000
inhabitants.
This facility would be run by a resident rural health auxiliary
who periodically receives assistance from the professional team consisting
basically of a general practitioner, dentist, nurse and midwife, who may come
together or on an alternating schedule. This team provides supervises the
work of the resident auxiliary and complements his or her training, as well as
provides care. This facility will provide basic primary health care.



- 73fAnnex 4
Page 4 of 9
Rural Clinic (RC)s This is an establishment set up in localities of 2,000 to
5,000 inhabitants with an assigned population of up to 20,000 persons,  It is
ranked under the Urtan General Clinic and/or Type 4 Hospital.
The rural clinic health team should comprise:  a general
practitLoner, a dentist, a nurse, a midwife and a rural paramedical auxiliary.
it will perform primary care level promotion, protection and recovery
activities ln the adult, child, dental and maternal programs.
Urban General Clinic (UGC): An Urban General Clinic can be located in small
cities as a stand-alone establishment or attached to a low-complexity
hospital; or in medium or large cities as part of a network of urban clinics,
in conjunction with the Health Referral Centers. The population for which it
is responsible will not exceed 40,000.
The Urban General Clinic's professional health team will include:
general practitioners, general dentists, nurses, midwives, nutritionists and
social workers. Thin facility performs promotion, protection and recovery
activities in the adult, child, maternal and dental programs, for the primary
care level.
Health Referral Center (HRC): The Health Referral Center is an open care
establishment, of medium complexity, that may be locakted in small cities, as a
stand-alone establishment or attached to a Type 3 Hospital; or in medium or
large cities as part of the networh of urban clinics, where it can be attached
to a Type 2 or 3 Hospital.
It is technically and administratLvely under the jurisdiction of
a pertinent Health Service Area staffed by specialists and serving persons
referred to it. This facility should meet the demand for medium complexity
diagnostic and therapeutic services from the low-complexity establishments.
Its diagnostic and therapeutic services will handle referrals from four to six
UGCe.
Diagnostic and Therap4iautic Center (DTC): Diagnostic and Therapeutic Centers
are located in the headquarter cities of the Health Service Areas, with at
least one per Service. These facilities are attached to a Type 1 Hospital, or
to a Type 2 Hospital if the Health Service concerned does not have a Type 1
Hospital. They are thte most complex, technological establishments defined as
open care establishments, but, they also serve the closed care of the hospital
to which they are attached.
The Diagnostic and Therapeutic Centers furnish ambulatory care to
patients referred to them by the establishments of lower complexity and to
hospitalized patients, in all specialties and subspecialties pertaining t.o
high-complexity medicine and dentistry. They have the necessary equipment
diagnostic and therapeuatic services of a high level of complexity. They do
not provide walk-in consultations.



-74                             _ Annex 4
Page 5 of 9
Type A Hospital (94): This level hospital is located in cities of over 10,000
inhabitants whose catchment areas include the communities assigned to the
Rural and General Clinics, but not exceeding 30,000 inhabitants. It may have
an Urban General Clinic attached to it and has fewer than 100 beds.
Its current professional human resources are: general
practitioner, nurse, midwife, social worker, medical technician and
nutritionist. The level of its equipment is sufficient for it to perform
diagnostic support with basic laboratory and imaging facilities, electro-
cardiograms and study of the fetoplacental unit. It provides round-the-clock
emergency medical service.
Type 3 Hospital (H3): This facility is located in localities of up to 50,000
inhabitants, with a catchment area made up of the communities assigned to the
Rural and Urban General Clinics and not exceeding 70,000 people. It may also
be located in large cities, where it would meet the demand for hospitalization
for cases of lesser complexity and also for emergency care in such cities. It
would have fewer than 200 beds.
Activities in Type Three Hospitals are designed to meet the
greater part of the closed care needs in the basic specialties of the
population for which it is responsible. It has differentiated basic services
(pediatrics, internal medicine, obstetrics/gynecology and surgery), in
addition to basic neonatology units and intermediate care units.
Type 2 Hospital (H2): A Type 2 Hospital may be located in cities with over
100,000 inhabitants, as the sole hospital establishment, and may have a Health
Referral Center attached to it. It can also be located in large urban areas
as a support establishment for Type 1 hospitals. It is suggested that its
size be below 400 beds.
The hospital has a differentiated emergency service staffed by the
resident interns, and differentiated clinical services for basic specialties.
It also offers intermediate care units for basic specialties, neonatology and,
where justified, an intensive care unit. It has basic specialists and
subepecialists in high-demand areas.
If it happens to be the highest level in the Health Service Area
concerned, the Type 2 Hospital may upgrade its complexity level above that
laid down in the list of services and have a Diagnostic and Therapeutic Center
attached to it.
Type 1 Hospital (El): This facility is located in the main cities of the
Health Services, which forms the base hospital of each system unit when the
size of the Health Service or its geographic location so warrant. It is the
closed care establishment of the highest level of complexity. It has a
Diagnostic and Therapeutic Center attached to it. It should have about 500
beds, with a catchment area of over 500,000 inhabitants.



- 75 -                             Annex 4
Page 6 of 9
The Type 1 Hospital has organized emergency service, resident
interns differentiated by clinical service, intermediate care units and an
intensive care unit. Its human resources comprise almost the full range of
clinical specialties and subspecialties, though it may not include some which
for reasons of cost-effectiveness should be concentrated in certain system
units strategically distributed throughout the country.
It is proposed that the present specialized institutes or
hospitals be included as clinical services with the Type 1 or 2 hospitals or
hospital complexes, and could in these cases be made national or regional
referral centers.
Parasectoral Establishments: This group could include: Recovery Center for
Malnourished Cases, Community Center for Care of Patients with Stable
Psychiatric Pathology, Home for the Elderly, Home for Pregnant Adolescents,
Integral Family Support Center, Basic Medical Care Center, Home for Pregnant
Rural Women, Socio-Labor Rehabilitation Center, Protected Homes and Workshops
for psychiatric patients, Predischarge Establishments for young children, and
others, in accordance with local needs.
These establishments would share responsibilitLes with the
community and social organizations. Even though they do not fully belong to
the public health system, they would have to be considered as means for
filling gaps detected in the care system, with the relevant Health Service
Area being made responsible for technical supervision of their functions.
The location of the proposed Parasectoral Establishments would
take into account basically the size of the population and the existence of
open and closed care establishments in the area.
REFERRAL SYSTEMSs
The referral systems (Figures 1-2), which describe the flow of
patients between the different establishments of the system, were approached
from the standpoint of incluision of the model in the different geodemographic
situations, and separating the flow of elective patients and those for
emergency care.
Flow of elective patients: Figure 1 represents the flow of elective patients
in the different situations. As a general rule, 2lective patients will be
sent to the ambulatory care or hospital establLshment -- as approprLate -- of
the next-highest level of complexity, under a system of obligatory staggered
referral.
Flow of emergency pationts: Flgure 2 represents the emergency flow. Only
establishments providing this type of care are included. All the
establishments serve spontaneous demand and can, in prLnciple, refer cases to
any establishments of hisher complexlty, at the referring physician's
discretion.



- 76-                             Annex 4
Page 7 of 9
It muat be stressed that in both instances -- elective or
*mergency -- it is essential for the proper functioning of the care system
that adequate means of communication and transport be available in each of the
*stablishments described.



Annex 4, Figure 1: CHaLE - FLOW OF ELECTIVE PATIENTS
URBAN-RURAL AREA                     SMALL CITY                   INTERMEDIATE CITY
RURAL CLINIC                          UGC                     UGC        -     HFIC
II                        _    _    _   _I
UGC                          HRC or UGC                           HRC
HOSPITAL TYPE 4                   HOSPITAL TYPE 3                  HOSPITAL TYPE 2
HOSPITAL TYPE 1
v~~~~~                           I   II_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   DTC
HOSPITAL TYPE 2                                              lRC
HRC or DTC                                               UG C^
HRCg             }           LARGE CITY                
* serves Walk-In consultations



AnnexA Eigure 2: CHILE - FLOW OF EM:ERGENCY PATIENTS
URBAN-RURAL AREA                     SMALL CITY                   INTERMEDIATE CITY
ERURAL CLNIC UjC                                                     __C
HOSPITAL TYPE 4                   HOSPITAL TYPE 3                 HOSPITAL TYPE 2
I  _ _ _ _ _I_ _        I                 -l  I          I                       X__ _ _ _ _ _ _   .
V      V      HOSPITAL TYPE 1 |        V
HOSPITAL TYPE 2
LARGE CITY
Ail establIshments accept emergoncy consultatlonse
nly establishments. providing emergen'cy services are shown.



- 79 -                           Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
Annex 5
TRAINING PLAN
OBJECTIVESt
The objectives of the Training Plan are the following:
- To improve the administrative and technical skills of the
managers and personnel of the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Health
Service Areas (HSAs), and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to
facilitate the implementation of the Ministry of Health - World
Bank projects (TAHRP and HSRP).
- To di6seminate widely the information on the proposed reforms to
be adopted by the MOH based on the recommendations of the technical
assistance studies.
METHODOLOGY:
1. Training to facilitate TAHRP and HSRP implementation:
a)   Themes and Materials  Training would be provided in the
country or abroad through short coureesr seminars, and
workshops, depending on the offers expressed by
Universities, specialized centers or other training
agencies. Themes will include:
- Audget Preparation
- Financial Planning
- Project Preparation
- Preparation and administration of public, private,
national and international bidding
- Plan and design of works
- Administration and Supervision of works
b)   Population  The target population to receive training
would be the professionals the Health Services Areas of
Antofagasta, Llanchipal, and the Metropolitan Region, as
well as, staff of the MOH DIPLAP and DIPROG and the PCU.
c)   Methods  The following training methodology would be
employed:
i) National training courses, workshops and seminars with
national and foreign experts.
ii) Attendance in courses and seminars in foreign
countries to obtain relevant experience from the
execution of projects similar to TAHRP and HSRP.



- 80 -                              Annex 5
- 80                      ~~~~~~Page 2 of 3
2. Information Dissemination
The objective is to disseminate information concerning the Ministry of
Health - World Bank Projects' objectives and proposed reforms in order to
assist in the development and modernization of the health sector.
The information dissemination objective would be carried out in Metropolitan
Region, Llanchipal, and Antofagasta throughs
(1) Seminars about the objectives of HSRP.
(2) Workshops and seminars concerning the specific findings
and appropriate recommendations of the policy and
institutional reform studies.
(3) Publication of documents.
In addition, there will be trips to foreign countries in order to present and
exchange experiences with the personnel of other projects or operations
similar to those of the Ministry of Health - 'World Bank Project.
Beginning Date: August 1991
Completion Date: December 1992
DEFINITION OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES:
National Training:        Training activities for professionals of the MOH,
PCU and the HSAs through Chilean institutions and
universities.
Internationsal Training:  Training activities for professionals of the MOH,
PCU, and the HSAs through foreign institutions and
universities.
Dissemination Seminars:  Seminars carried out with the objective of
disseminating information concerning tho Ministry of
Health - World Bank Project.
National Seminars:        PCU-coordinated seminars to train the executives,
professionals, and other personnel within the HSAs
and the MOH. Some of the themes of these seminars
would include: project formulation, execution of
projects, elaboration of bidding procedures,
developmenc of architectural and engineering
projects u-:ilizing modern techniques.
International Seminars:  Sending professionals employed by the PCU, the MOH
and the HSA to seminars given by foreign
institutions or universities.



- 81 -                                  Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
TRAINING COSTS
Type                Number of            Number of          Total Persons            Program
of Training              Persons             Activities        Per Activity              Cost
National Training           1                    36                  36                   59
International Training      1                    11                  11                   55
Dissemination Seminars    30                     10                 300                   10
National Seminars          15                    10                 150                   60
International Seminars      1                    14                  14                   30
TOTAL                                                               115                  214



- 82 -                              Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
Dia onstic Study of Public Hospital Infrastructure and ESuinment
The evaluation of the hospital infrastructure and industrial
equipment components under the project was based on a brief survey of the
hospitals in Metropolitan Santiago. The survey was carried out in 1990 by the
PCU staff, physical resources specialists from the Health Services Areas
(HSAU) and hospital experts. Qualitative judgement and quantitative
measurements were made using a scale from I to 100 points to rate the
buildings and equipment on an objective basis. The figures are averages for
all buildings of a given hospital complex (See Attachment 1.).
(i)   Structure
Project hospitals are on average 60 years old. Those above
average are in the North (84 years), East (74 years) and South (71 years) HSA.
The oldest hospitals are San Jos6, El Salvador and Barros Luco
Trudeau, built in 1850, 1896 and 1914, respectively. Only two hospitals were
built in the last two decades (19708 and 1980s), San Borja Arriar&n (1973) and
Melipilla (1985).
The older hospitals were built primarily of materials such as mud
brick and wood and have suffered the effects of several earthquakes. Their
architecture and functionality is totally inappropriate for modern medicine.
Some sections of these hospitals have been added gradually over time in
response to the sector's growing infrastructure needs. Nevertheless, those
"improvements" were done in a haphazard fashion and have caused serious
deficiencies. Worse still, they have not provided effective solutions In terms
of replacement or repair to the damaged structures.
As can be seen from Table 1, the overall rating of hospital
structures is 67 points. The services falling below the average are in the
South (46), North (59) and East (67) HSA. The hospitals with the lowest
ratings are San Jos6 (30), Barros Luco (40), Caupolic&n Pardo (45) and El
Salvador (50).
Of the 17 project hospitals, 5 (San Jose, Barros Luco Trudeau, El
Salvador and Psychiatric) have some structural damage, requiring substantial
repair or replacement.
The damaged and structurally deteriorated hospital buildings pose
a serious risk in a country with significant seismic activity. During this
century, five earthquakes have severely shaken the metropolitan region (1906,
1943, 1965, 1973 and 1985).
A survey to evaluate the reaction capability in the event of
earthquake classified the following hospitals as having the highest risk: San
Jos6, El Salvador, B. L. Trudeau, E. G. Cortfs, Caupolic&n Pardo and S6tero
del Rio.



-83 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
TABLE No.1
VALUES ASSIGNED To INFRASTRUCTURE AND ECUIPMENT ON A OUALITATIVEIOUANTITATIVE SCALE
FRtOM 0 (MINIMUM VALUE) TO 100 (MAXIMUM VALUE) '5EE ATTACHMENT V'.5J
of Inir-ructw. e  Wwtriol gati.enm of TAI4RP HooiwI.
-Saa S*Sr ott IM,osuutu,.
No. beds    Potabe    St.wago q    Cctic.ty    Sutuctuor  Fnia " n   Powiw Lt  Mry    Food    Cllrci
NORTHERN REGION HEALTH SERVICES OIVISION           1,877
HOSPITALS          Son Jo"                          484        48         46          46           30         30         46         0        30     so
R. d Rio                         318        60         O          30           6S        *0         66          0       60      sO
P.ycNoteic                       S62        30         30          30          t5         40         30         sO       s0       0
Onteb.ici                        as        30        s0           s0          46         40         30          0        0      t0
AVERACE                                                        42         38          se           St         46         30        6C        47     54
WESTERN REGION HEATH SERVtCES OlVtSION            1l87S
HOSPITALS          Sa dJun deObia                   788        60         sO          60           8s         tO         30         0        30     sO
Trwot Gnt,t                     214        W0         go          30          80         ISO         o0         0       30      gO
P.F tin_                          11        so         t0          50 0  6s               ISO         5         30       30      50
MellojOR                         108        50         to          g0          so         110        so          0 so     0      sO
AVEFRAGr                                                       se         #a           1           es    o     4         46        35        38     72
CiNTRAL RiGION HEALTH SERVICES OIVSION             1.146
HOSPTALS           PiiN. Amnlatmie.                 253        30         70          s0           30         40         SO         0        40     40
Om,i $&.PArri                    382        s0         40          65          70         d0          70         0       es      40
AVEiAGE                                                        53         38     t     4           72        S6          72         0        SI     40
EASTERN REGION HULTH SERVICES OIViSION             1,7F2
HOSPITALS          CalveMockern                     354        tO         sO          3s           so         40         60.       40        0s      sO
D0l Sabovd.r                   1,010        40         30          *0          50         sO          40        30       60      70
INERYCIT                         280        s0         20          60          100        2l          so         a       60      it0
HNewu grr                        14i       10(         90          sO          100        SC,        100         0        50     l0
AVERAGE                                                                   40          so           67         47         60         33       so      to
                                 - -------                                                         -- ---------
WESTERN REGION HEALTH SERVICES 0)VISION
HOSPTALS          Sftet  del Rio                    613        66         45          *0           7S         60         so         40      a6       to
AVERAGE
FiAii.  - - -  - - - - - - - - - _- - - - - _- -  _- _- - _- _- - - - - - - _-     _ __ __   _ _ _  _ _    _         __
SOUTHERN REGION HEALTH SERVICES OlVISION           1.143
HOSPITALS            rrasLuce                       312        45         45          40           40         4S         tO         45       sO      tO
L OitAe                         231        Os         70          tO          50          70         70        s0        70     s0
AVERAGE                                                        48         so          42           48         so         54         48_      62      32
TOTALAViRAGE METROPOUTANREGION                     S.325       64         46          4S           07         SO         5I         42       S8      #t
-            -------  __o___ - _   __ _-- -       _    _ ---_..__
Ies;o 9velwtln of Inltnuileto VW Inrtii i tqStioment. MINSAL4iCAO ftact. 1800.



- 84 -
Arnnex 6
Page 3 of 9
(ii)   Systems
The potable water, 6ewerage and electricity systems are extremely
pressing problems in the project hospitals. At the root of the problem is
their age, lack of repair and maintenance and haphazara pattern of growth.
The deterioration in systems is responsible for a host of problems and risks
to hospital operations. In the case of potable water, the deterioration has
meant filtrations, drips and drops in network pressure, especially during the
summer months. Much more serious is the deterioration in electric power and
sewerage systems in the hospitals. The former causes drops in voltage, power
outages, heating up of lines and short circuits that can cause fires. For the
sewerage systems, the deterioration has meant filtrations that cause humidity,
dangerous contamination of clean and aseptic areas and promotes the presence
of a number of insects, vectors and undesirable animals.
The crisis situation of the water, sewerage and electricity
systemtn in the hospitals is acute. The ratings are: potable water (54),
sewerage (45) and electricity (49). The potable water systems are worst in
the North (42), South (49) and Central (53) ESAs, representing the following
hospitals: Psychiatric and Public Assistance (30), El Salvador (40), Barros
Luco Trudeau and San Jos6 (45). (See Table 1.)
The worst ratings were for sewerage systems.  Most affected were:
North (36), Central (38), East and Southeast (40) HSAs. The hospitals
involved are INERYCIT (20), Roberto del Rio, Public Assistance, Psychiatric
and El Salvador (30), San Borja ArriarAn (40) and San Jos6 and Barros Luco
(45).
Also receiving low ratings were electricity systems, especially
for the North (36), South (42) and Southeast (50) HSAs. The hospitals with
greatest problems are Roberto del Rio, Psychiatric and Trauma Center (30),
Calvo Mackenna (35), Barros Luco (40) and San Jose (45).
Of the 17 peoject hospitals, 6 have one or more systems classified
as inadequate, with their useful life over or substandard. In another six,
o-e or more of the systems are classified as inadequate or in poor condition,
although they can be brought up to standard. Thus, 70% of the hospitals have
serlous problems in at least one of the components evaluated.
(iii)   Interiors and exteriors
Exteriors and interiors are also an important factor in hospital
infrastructure. Defects affect the outside surfaces of the buildings,
protection or cover of the structure and systems and their integrity. Such
defects hinder proper cleaning and sanitation.
The acute deterioration of exterior and interior materials is seen
in all areas and hospital services, particularly those that provide direct
care, such as waiting rooms, emergency services, rooms where laboratory
samples are taken and specialty consultation rooms. The public therefore has
a very po',r image of the condition of the buildings in which they are treated.



- 85                               Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
The overall rating of the hospitals (50) does not vary widely in
general for the varlous health services. The hospitals with the lowest
ratings were INERYCIT '25), San Jos6 (30), Psychiatric, Caupolicln Pardo
Correa, Public Assistance and Calvo Mackenna (40) and Barros Luco (45). (See
Table 1.)
The exteriors and interiors of 12 of the 17 project hospitals have
suffered some degree cf deterioration requiring repair.
4.3.2       Industrial Ecuinment
The study of project hospitals rated the laundries, power
stations, food storehouses and clinical gas network (oxygen, vacuum,
compressed air, nitrogen and ethylene oxide) services. Each and every one of
them is essential to the proper running of the hospitals. Their deterioration
or deficiencies, beyond undermining the normal operations of a hospital, can
pose serious risks to the buildings, patients and health personnel, in
particular the furnaces of the power station which together with the other
systems are in the most deteriorated condition.
(i)   Power Stations
With a general rating of 51 points, the most affected are the
North (39), West (45) and East (50) HSAs. The hospitals with the
most deteriorated power stations are Psychiatric, Caupolicln Pardo
and San juan de Dios (30), El Salvador (40) and San Jos6 (45).
(ii)   L&Undries
Ten of the hospitals do not have laundries and have to purchase
services on the outside. The laundiies received a rating of 42
points. The most affected services are Eastern (33), Western (35)
and Southeastern (40). The hospitals in the worst situation are
(Felix Bulnes and El Salvador (30), Calvo Mackenna (40) and Barros
Luco (45).
(Lii)   Food Storehouses
Overall rated 56, the most affected services are Western (36) and
Northern (47). The hospitals with the worst ratings are San Jos6,
San Juan de Dios, Trauma Center and Fdlix Bulnes (30) and Public
Assistance (40).
(iv)   Clinical Gases
Only the Psychiatric Hospital does not have a clinical gases
network. The others were rated 61. Three services are below the
regional average, i.e. Central (40), Southern (52) and Northern
(54). The hospitals with the worst ratings are Public Assistance
and San Borja Arriarin (40); San Jos6, CaupolicAn Pardo, F6lix
Bulnes, Calvo Mackenna and Barros Luco (50).



- 86 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
Other areas of the industrial equipment of the hospitals, although
not rated in the survey, have severe deficiencias. These would
include communication systems and elevators. Although their
degree of deterioration was not quantified, these problems also
have a very adverse impact on the running of the hospitals.
4.3.3       Medical Equipment
Given the rehabilitation objective of the project, an emphasis was
put on diagnosing the obsolescence and operational condition of existing
equipment. In surveys made during 1990, one of the main problems mentioned by
health care professionals was having to work and carry out their duties
without adequate or modern equipment, especially given the fact that type 1
and 2 hospitals provide the most complex care in the public sector. Much of
the equipment now used, especially the most expensive (scanners, dialysis
machines), were acquired througn donations of equipment from the developed
countries.
Obsolescence and wear and tear of equipment essentially hinder
productivity, increase operating costs and frequently pose risks to patient
health, as the equipment can fail during clinical use or encourage recourse to
obsolete invasive procedures.
Moreover, a high proportiun of obsolete equipment means that, in
general, it is in fair condition, associated with low reliability, difficulty
in obtaining spare parts, low resolving power and tendency to overuse good
wquipment.- The maintenance of such equipment incurs high operating costs,
which given budget constraints, should be a recourse only when lt is
impossible to invest in new equipment.
When unreliable equipment with low resolving power is used,
procedures must often be repeated conti.auously, which pushes up operating
costs and produces poor quality data that introduce uncertainties or confusion
in the management of a clinical case. Lastly, the poor performance of
equipment or their obsolescence has a negative impact on morale and the
mystique enjoyed by health care professionals.
The following scale was used to obtain an overall indicator of the
condition or obsolescence of medical equipment:
High degree of deterioration or obsolescence:
When for 50% or more of the clinical services or support units of
a hospital, 30% or more of the equipment is in fair or poor
condition or 70% or more iC obsolete.
Average degree of deterioration or obsolescence:
When for 31%-49% of the clinical services or support utilts of a
hospital, 30% or more of the equipment is in fair or poor
condition or 70% or more is obsolete.



87 -.Annex 6_
Page 6 of 9
Low degree of deterioration or obsolescence:
When for 30% or less of the clinical services or support unLts of
a hospital, 30% or more of the equipment is in fair or poor
condition or 70% or more is obsolete.
In accordance with the scale established to quantify equipment
condition, 10 hospitals have equipment classified as highly obsolete and
deteriorated. These are: San Borja Arriaran, Trauma Center, F6lix Bulnes,
Melipilla, INERYCIT, San Jose, Barros Luco, Exequiel Gonz&lez Cort6s, El
Salvador and San Juan de Dios (Table 2).
The establishments with average obsoleacence or deterioration of
equipment are Public Assistance, Neurosurgery Institute and Roberto del Rio.
Only the Luis Calvo Mackenna and Caupolic&n Pardo Correa hospitals have a low
level of obsolescence.
According to available information, the obsolescence or
deterioration of equipment and instruments affect in particular the radiology,
pathology, kinesiology support units and the surgery, gynecology and
neonatology departments. Those with more modern equipment in a better state
of repair, without being optimal, are the sterilization, clinical laboratory
and intensive and intermediate care units.
TABLE 2
obsolescence or deterioration of medical equipment, MINSAL-IBRD
project hospitals (TAHRP).
HIGH        San Borja Arriarin
Trauma Center
Fdlix Bulnes
El Salvador
Melipilla
INERYCIT
San Jose
Barros Luco Trudeau
Exequiel Gonz&lez Cortes,
San Juan de Dios
AVERAGE     Public Assistance
Neurosurgery Institute
Roberto del Rio
LOW         Luis Calvo Mackenna
Caupolic&n Pardo Correa
Note:       It was not possible to include the Psychiatric and S6tero del Rio
Hospitals because of lack of information.
Sources     Critical factors in productivity, HSRP Project, MINSAL-IBRO.



- 8B -                            Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
Attachment 1
TAHRP HOSPITAL EVALUATION PROJECT
I.          Sources of Information
1.          General data:
-    1990 statistical compendium, INE
-     1989 Health Services yearbooks
Diagnostic study for the formulation of strategic and priority
program guidelines for the health sector for the period 1991-93,
Planning Department, MINSAL
survey of hospitalization waiting times, UCP HSRP project, MINSAL.
2.          Infrastructure and hospital equipment
Survey of physical resources entitled "Condition of Health
Services Establishments," 1990, Physical Resources Department,
Health Service
-     Brief evaluation made by experts from each Health Service of the
buildings making up the hospital complexes, UCP HSRP project,
MINSAL
Review of information, critical productivity factors, UCP HSRP
project, MINSAL
"Adjusting the Public Health Care System" study, 1990, MINSAL
Procedures for evaluating the reaction capability of SNSS
establishments in emergency situatLons in terms of physical
resources, Physical Resources Department, MINSAL.
II.         Nomenclature and oinerational Definitions
INFRASTRUCTURE    Concept that covers structural elements, systems and
exteriors and interiors of the hospitals.
EQUIPMENT         Set of industrial or medical apparatus, equipment and
machinery used in the hospitals.
STRUCTURE         Basic component of the building; refers to the predominant
construction material, roofing, and gutters.



89                              Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
SYSTEMS           Potable water, sewerage and electricity systems.
EXTERIORS AND     Exterior and interior elements such as floors, walls, wall
INTERIORS         coverings, stucco, etc.
CONDITION         Qualitative classification of an element of infrastructure
or industrial equipment of the hospital. Broken down into:
good, fair, fairly good, fairly poor and poor ratings,
understood as follows:
GOOD: those elements of construction or related elements
that have no visible deterioration and which maintain their
original physical and technical propertLes.
FAIR: (including fairly good and fairly poor): those
elements of construction or other elements with such
deterioration or damage as may require repair in order to
recover their physical and technical properties.
POOR: those elements of construction and other elements
that, in the opinion of the Physical Resources Department of
the Health Service, cannot be repaired and whose continued
existence may pose a degree of risk or greater damage to the
safety and preservation of the building.
RATING            Qualitative/quantitative measurement of a given component of
the infrastructure and industrial equipment of the hospital.
The scale ranges from 0 to 100, to rate the buildings on an
objective basis. The values represent averages for all
buildings in a given hospital complex.
The value of the indicator is derived from a calculus
algorithm, in accordance with predetermined guidelines.
Thus, the indicator differentiates for:
STRUCTURE         > 70 pts.   :      without structural damage
31-69 pts.  :      some damage, but can be repaired
< 30 pts.          damaged building cannot be repaired or is
very vulnerable to seismic activity.
SYSTEMS           > 70 pts.   :      meets needs and standards
31-69 pts.  :      lower than necessary, but can be brought
up to standard
< 30 pts.          inadequate, useful life over, substandard.
EXTERIORS AND     > 70 pts.   :      excellent condition
INTERIORS         31-69 pts.  :      acceptable, but needs maintenance work
< 30 pts.          poor repair.



- 90 -.Ann
PAoe 9 of 9
The following was used to correlate the scale for the condition of
the infrastructure and equipment and the qualitative/quantitative scale for
rating them:
Condition                Rating
-     Poor                      > 70 pts.
-     Fairly poor               31-50 pts.
-     Fairly good               51-69 pts.
-     Good                      < 30 pta.
CONDITION OF MEDICAL EQUIPMENT: Qualitative rating of the instruments Pr
machinery used in the clinical services and diagnostic and therapeutic support
units of the hospitals. Classified as good, fair or poor.



_91_
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
Annex 7: CHILE - CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF SUBPROJECTS
1.        The PCU will apply two types of criteria for the analysis and
approval of hospital subprojects: the basic criteria and the criteria for
determinina the Rriority ranking. Approved subprojects based on these
criteria will be endorsed for MIDEPLAN approval.
A, BASIC CRITERIA
2.        The basic criteria are necessary but not sufficient conditions that
must be met by the subprojects. Subproject that do not fulfill the basic
criteria will be immediately returned by the PCU to the corresponding HSA.
Those that qualify under the basic criteria will be included for the second
stage analysis, i.e., for the priority ranking.
(i)    Amount:  Subproject cost should be in the range of US$10,00S to
US$350,000, including a 15 percent allowance for physical aid price
contingencies.
(ii)   Hosgital TvRes:  Subprojects should finance hospitals type 1 or 2 of
the Metropolitan Region's HSAs.
(iii)  Firancinx Request:  The subproject application should be signed by
the HSA's director and the hospital director.
(iv)  0Oerating ExDenditures:  According to availability of resources,
three alternatives will have to be considered by the HSA:
(a) certification of the hospital director about availabilitv of
resources to meet operational and maintenance expenses requirea by
the proposed investment; (b) if (a) cannot be fulfilled by the
hospital, certification of the HSA director about availability of
those resources in the service area; (c) in case operational
expenses would exceed 15 percent annually of total investment cost,
the HSA should request approval of the Office of the Undersecretary
of Health to allocate the required counterpart resources for the
proposed investment. If approved, the subproject application should
be accompanied by a letter signed by Undersecretary of Health.
(v)    Implementation Period:  Should not exceed one calendar year from the
initiation of bidding procedures.
(vi)   Consistency with HSRP:  The proposed subproject should be consistent
with the investment strategy of the HSRP.
(vii)  Tv!e:  Subprojects should belong to one of the following categories:
(a)  Equipment:           - Purchase         . Replacement
. New
- Repair



- 92 -
Page 2 of 4
(b)  Vehicles:             - Purchase        . Replacement
. New
- Repair
(c)  Infrastructure:      - Replacement
- Repair
- Construction
(d) Mixed;                - a combination of the (a) to (c).
DEFINITIONS:
(a) EOUIPMENT: Medical or induetrial equipment which can be repaired or
purchased (either as replacement for an existing old/obsolete equipment or
to add to the capital stock).
- Medical equipment: Includes medical and therapeutical
equipment required for clinical services, radiology units,
clinical laboratory, blood bank and sterilization units.
- Industrial equipment: Includes equipment for support
services, i.e., clinical gases, thermal, laundry and kitchen
facilities, telephone and information network.
Purchases: Refers to investment in equipment needed to substitute
damaged or obsolete equipment or to introduce new equipment.
- Replacement: When an equipment that cannot continue
opereting is replaced by a new one to fulfill similar
purposes. Replacement would be allowed if the repair cost
exceeds 35 percent of the replacement value.
- New: It refers to purchase of equipment not considered as
replacement.
Repair: Understood as tbe actions needed to put in optimum
functioning condition an already existing equipment. Repair cost
should not exceed 35 percent of the replacement value and the useful
life of the equipment should increase at least 50 percent according
to the producer's technical specifications.
(b)  VEHICLES:  Vehicles for transportation of personnel and  patient.
Under no circumstances will it be possible to exceed the maximum number of
vehicles assigned to a service.
Purchase: Refers to investment required to replace damaged or
obsolete vehilels or to incorporate new ones.



- 93 -                            Anex 7
Page 3 of 4
- Roplacements When a non-operating vehicle is replaced
by a new one to fulfill similar purposes. Replacement
would be allowed if the repair cost exceeds 35 percent of
the replacement value.
- Newt Corresponds to an acquisition not considered as
replacement.
Reoair: Understood as the actions needed to leave in optimum
functioning condition an already existing vehicle. Repair cost
should not exceed 35 percent of the replacement value and the useful
life of txhe equipment should increase at least 50 percent according
to the producer's technical specifications.
(c) INFRASTRUCTURE: Refers to civil works for repair, total or partial
replacement, or construction of new facilities.
Renlaceme-nt: Understood as the partial or total replacement of an
establishment that cannot continue operating by new infrastructure
to fulfill the same purposes. "Partial" refers to a complete set of
infrast-ucture which represents a self-sufficient functional unit
that does not imply other complementary modifications not included
in the subproject. Replacement would be allowed if the repair of
existing foundation is not viable.
Repair: Refers to actions required to leave in optimum functioning
condition a part or parts of an establishment. Repair cost should
not exceed 35 percent of the replacement value.
Constructions Civil works that cannot be considered as roplacement
or repair.
-d) MIXED: When two or more categories (a) to (c) are included.
B. PRIORITY CRITERIA
3.        The following criteria would be used to rank subprojects based on a
weighted point average. Subprojects should get 50 or more points to be
approved for financing.
(a) Minimization of bottlenecks in medical procedures or hospital
support services: 45 points
(b) Reduction of patient and personnel risks: 25 points
(c) Emphasis on rehabilitation/replacement/repair versus new
construction or purchase of new equipment: 15 points
(d) Emphasis on promotion of ambulatory care: 15 points



- 94                               Annx 7
Page 4 of 4
4.        Both the basic and priority criteria will be reviewed and modified,
as appropriate, during the mid-term review in June 1993. During this review,
the inclusion of improved cost recovory as a priority criteria would be
analyzed taking into account the results and recommendations of the health
financing studies which are currently underway.



Annex 8: CHILE - BUDGET CYCLE FOR HOSPITAL
REHABILITATION SUBPROJECT
ACTIVITIES              SERVICE      P.C.U  UNDERSECRETARY  MINISTRY OF  MINISTRY OF  CONTROLLER   DAYS
OF HEALTH       PLANNING        FINANCE
SEND INSTRUCTIONS
PRESENT PROJECT
PCU QUAIIFICATION
MOP E'ALUATES                                         .30/30
PROJECT APPROVAL
ASK FOR TRANSFER
DRAFT DECREE                                                                                                 317
REVIEW BUDGET                                                                                               21/30
APPROVS DECREE
RETURN DECREE
REGISTER DECREE                                                                                              317
MINISTER SIGNS
NOTARIZE                                        .                                                           12
(TOMA DE RAZON)                                 .4121
RECEIVE APPROVAL                                         |                     __-_-
ORDER TO BEGIN                                                                                                             I.
BEGIN EXECUTION
TOTAL DAYS                                                                                                 T1J5



Annex 9: CHILE -FIRST SET OF PROJECTS
HOSPITAL               PROJECT  Am                      zoTrLERECKS TO BE                            IUIASTRUCTURE           12DUSTIEAL         MMICL            'EICLUS  sDR               TOTAL
ADDRESSED                                                         EQ mflT    zQmInT
Cia U.S.S)
Oncojog4co          epair of sanitation      fisk of fire and infection from bospiteliratico            42,332                                                                                42,332
aericel & euit
Psiquiata.   Repair of acute care            Risk of fire and tnfaction from bospitalication           303,199                                                                             303,199
)elpitaltzation sectort
R. Del Rio   Standaratisatton                Risk of exposnra to lolec radiatlon. log                  100,081                                                                             100,081
of radiolo                wating lht 6 &oapLttl stayq
R. Del Rio   Repair of sanitation            Usk of fire and Infection frcm hospitehIzatlta             56,167                                                                                56,167
soeriets
San  Jose          Isplamntattion *          Uk of exposur, to Ionic radiatton, lo,g                                                            256,377                                    256,377  D
teondardicatton of       waiting list & bospital strpy
radioloy  quptF  nt
B. Luco            Standaricetion of         ?oor urgent care service. resulttng from a lack                                                   238,600                                    238,600
e    f rgency aT4u0"I    of tmitor. and resptrator, for critical patieuts
A.  Publica   Zeprovest of &                 Poor mwdical attottion for critical patients and twQd    100,054                                                                               100,054
Increase to access       to mow  patients tbrough tha vaiting room
A. Publica   Xmprosmennt of el"ator   Lack of mobility of pstiets end staff                                                 131,035                                                        131,035
service
F. Bulies          Uproemst In eateruity  Meaternal & perinatal sorbidity 1 mortality.                 18, 145              138,565                                             Si         156,710
I eutl min               risk of InfectiSo from bospitalization.
Melipilla          lsproveaent of eteril-    Risk of Infection from bocpitalIzation                     26,971                                                                               26,971
igatio  of infant forina  tramsmited through food for nawborm
*S4Ptp
San  Juan          Standardization of       Outdated equipmnt for delivery                                                                     177,300                                      177,300
mternity equipment        nd cervical cancer sceenin
0
H'X



Annex 9: CHILE - FIRST SET OF PROJECTS (Cont'd)
UOs?ITAL        lIoJeTT  u               Wom   ro U                                        XUIJUSL    IM1c"            2CLS      D      TOm
ADDUSS10                                        ZQuI?IEVI    EqUIflm
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 .U.                                                     .    
San Juan    l.m..r  t of        R ns of4fre tS" aogtint.. b..ptollrs-1      90,104                                                       90,104
S. Del Rio  ..tatim  1 .t #      *"A   uf.tt. i. b.rltiz.tl. .           189,929                                                       189,929
w.,to PASXF        of mwiopSt A   1         
S. Del Rio   ,Tor..sg.t att     S.).zviara cuide. sup.rt ,.r,le.".        137,860                        92,516                 Si      230,376
ped&.5rie  builAg  | Lb rh. .pi,s. Of hdl.trlA 15w,1e,.
S. Del Rio  n.ptur of sievatui Luk .f ma.W.rp utypat I.'sad wt.ft                        242, 162                                      242,162
S. Del Rio  Tler s.. .i*t       gcstr.ll,. .patisl y sj .Li.rr cor..      157,330                                                       157,330
.p..bltp s....t,tim   l.sg uslUn lint 
Neurocir.   E"ql.a with w.crL.   ftactk of ".r.tt er ertcries rationed                                  149,206                        149,206
,..pir.tt         .in leng ntl1 e.tt 
C. Mackena  st.amariitten of    Rik of un lstat ..rbiditp S .ertlaity     110,254                       176,274                 Si     286,528
..sixrdt.ww..l.it., c.. r"Usl di.0.. ..d i* w.g W.Iiti Ist
..t.it..
TOTAL                                                                     1,332,426       511,762       1,090,273                         4,461
S..,... .Us UIitj.  .k
$sftco Chlo uft tlXrr of jkric
*OQ 
00X
0o



_. 98 _
Atnex 10
Page 1 of 9
Annex 10. Table 1: CHILE - PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT AND CATEGORIES
(US$ 000)
Soepitl                 Pil.1sots     Project
Rababol    Studies       Start Op    Adaluls         Total
itation                    Op4rat    tratton
I. ISVTKbT COSTS
A. Civil works                        13,654                                             13,654
1. Consultant Services                               3,220          125                   3,343
C. Tranog/lvotckebops                                             200           41         241
D. 1quipmnt                           12,220                       875          104      13,199
B. T.bSc3.s                              534                                     16         570
r. Pilot Iupleuantstion                                          1,400                    1.4c0
Total 7BVzSn=T COSTS                  26,428         3,220       2,600          161      32,409
it. IsCuIZT COSTS
A. Staff salaries                                                              1526       1 326
a. Operatitn  costs                                                             233         233
Total IZCUIfIT GOSTS                                                            1759       1,759
Total IASV.18  COSTS                   26,428         3,220       2.600        1,920      34,168
Pbyeic&l contingencies                2,004                        44           25       2,073
Price contingencies                   2,s49           17S          78          126       3.031
Taxes                                 5,648                       263           87       5,999
Total PRWJCT COSTS                     3.7129         5,398       2,965        2.159     -45,270
Annex 10. Ta1ble 2:  CHILE - PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY AND YEARS
OF LHPLEMENTATION
(US$ 000)
Totals Ic2uludlS Conting6nce.s and TaSxe
1993         1994         1995        1996        Total
I. 711VEStNT COSTS
..._____________
'. Civil works                         5,384         7,178       3.588        1,795      17,944
D. Consultant Servics                  2,778           761           0            0       3,539
C. Trainln/vork.bops                    19             61           3            3         256
D. quiputt                             7,362         8,3S8       2,696          699      19,344
. Vohicle.                               308           366         122           41         836
. Pilot IupUuentation                    420           560         280          140       1,400
Total IIVIST  COSTS                    16,439        17.315       6,669        2,877      45,320
I1. ICURUT= COSTS
A. Staff salaries                      1,198           190           79          $1       1.638
S. Opertig costs                         217            63           17          17         313
Total UCtlWl  COSTS                     1,415           843          of           #I^       1,951
Total P01r0 COSTS                       17,53S       17,657        6,764       8.974      45*,70
....................... 00*.......



- 99 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 9
Annex 10. Table 3:  CHILE - PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT AND YEARS
OF IMPLEENTATION
(US$ 000)
Totals Including Contingencies and Tr.s
. . .... . ...............    l..... ......... . ...........
1993         1994         1995        1996        Total
___,,,_,,,,.,,_, ____.......................................................... _ .  
A. BsZtYTL RArtAD.!ATION
1. Civil works                        5,384         7,175       3,560        1.795       17,904
2. Squipuent                          6,273         8,102        2,696         399       17,969
3. Vehicles                              286          366          122          41          61G
!t'btotal Sosp. Rehab.                11,943       15,647        6,406       2,734      36,729
t. STUDIS
1. Folicy lraevork S.idies
a. macroeconomi  settinw               14                                                 14
b. Sectoral policy setting              8                                                  8
c. Raor. health cars model             48                                                 48
70                                                70
2. Esaltb Pacilittie Study
a. Diagn. boap. ssrv. gaps             10                                                 10
b. Anal, boap. asry. g.:pa           532                                                 532
a. Pcasib.M  Zgrgn.Studiea           430           665                                 1,095
972          663                                 1,637
3. '-stitut. Reform Studies
a. fislth financing                  299                                                 299
i. HogH  trangtheing                  510                                                S10
e. Hsaith supply                     270                                                270
d. Public Health Instituta           174                                                 174
a. Orgamisational nodals              49                                                  49
f. PFAC evaluation                   222            96                                  318
1,524           96                                 1,621
4. gval. and Monitoring Design            60                                                 60
5. Doesi  of Specific Programs            10                                                 10
Subtotal Studies                      2,635           761                                3,397
C. PILOWT TX T/START-VP OPERATIONS
1. infartation Systems                1,089           283                                1,372
2. Trainitg/Workabope                    ;99           55                                   214
S. Pilot   pleatttioan                   420          560          200         140        1,400
Subtotal Pilot Tests                   1,666          898          260         140       2,986
D. P SOJCT AIaNIBTATCON
1. PCD staff salaris                  1,198           280           79          81       1,638
2. tquipeatlvebiele                      162            3                                   163
S. Training/travel                        31            6            3           3           43
4. Otbet FCo operating costs            217            63           17          17         313
Subtotal Prol. Adf.                    1,e08          332           99         101       2,139
Tol PrO csT COSTS                        17,835       17.657        6.784       2,974       43.270
... . ..                            . _ . .



- 100 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 9
Annex 10. Table 4t DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES BY COMPONENT, CATEGORY
AND YEAR OF IMPLEHENTATION
TABLE 4.1: Hospital Rehabilitation (CH$)
5,C. In                                                                        Totals bncludtng Coottaolucte.
Bacs  Costs    OS$                    Totals Includicg CoutingtocIe*                                        WS
93.96        93.96    1993          1994        1995        1996         Total        1993    1994   199t   1996    Total
z. IIVZSi        COSTS
A. Civil vorlc               3,744,698      10,924   1,65T,288  2,337.633  1,484,261          839,642   6,562,824    4,018   3,337  26718 1,339  13,392
3. Iudustrial  q>uipeout   1168.964         3,408      553,090    822,088    318,681    122,805   1.816,464    1,339   1,722    574   191   3.626
C. H  decal lqutpunt         2,003,939       5,842      948,134  1,409.293    545,968    210,522   3,113,938    2.296   2.952    984   328   6.539
D. Vahtol..                    148,336         432        70,184     104,319      40,414       13,583      230,500        170      218      73    24       486
a. Clv. woriks              936,354      2.730       414,736    639,276    371,489    214,866   1,640,368           1,004   1,339    669   335   3,347
b. Iudust. iqulpsent        339.654         990      160,706    2383S86        92,338      35.682       327,791        389      300     167    56   1,112
a. Hadica Aquipuent         679,008       1,980      321,269    477,520       184,994      71,333   1,035,116         778   1,000    333   111   2,223
4. Vehiales                  41,463         122       19,722       29,314      11,356       4,379        64,772         48       61      20      7      1346
Total ImM55rA    COSTS         9,063,126    26,429   4,147,150  6,278,309  3,051,500  1,534,813  15,011,772   10,042  13.130  3,499 2.391  31,081
Total                       9,063,126    16,429   4,147,150  6,278,309  3,031,300  1,534,813  15,011.772   10,042  13,150  3,499 2,391  31.081
- Vlue  coaled by 1000,0  10/06/19S1



101 -                                                  Annex 10
Page 4 of 9
Annex 10. Table 4: DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES BY COMPONENT, CATEGORY
AND YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION
TABLE 4.2: Studies (CH$)
lse      S.C.m                                                      Totals Including Coutingeucies
Coots       US$            Totals Including Contingencits                         Us$
........... ...... .......... 4"..... ... ... e q..................... .................. . ... .......
93-96    93-96            1993    1994    1995  1996    Total        1993  1994  1995 1996   Total
_ _.. ...............................   ...........................................  ........................ _.....____..._
S.  tSffiCT COSTS
A. Polfcy Framvork Studies
1. Mscroeonoinic setting          4,902      14         5,782                               5,782       14                        14
2. Scotoral poltcy ectting         2,744      a         3,304                               3,304        8                         8
3.  .0or. bealth oars uod.l       16.327     48        19,659                              19,659       48                        48
Subtotal                            23,873      70       28,745                              28,745       70                        70
*. Healtb Facilitiest Study
1. DOtgn. hoop. ccrv. gaps        3,259      10         3.924                               3,924       10                        10
2. Anal.hosp.sarv.gSaps fort
a. Antofagasta                28,894      84        34,791                              34,791       84                        U4
b. Llauchipal                 28,894      84        34,791                              3',791       84                        64
a. Hatropolitan Region       124,913    364        150,406                             150,406      364                       364
3. 9eatbi.&  ungurg.Studies    343,000  1.000         177,693   317,420                   495,113      430   665               1.095
Subtotal                          528,960  1,542        401,604   317,420                   719,024      972   665               1,637
C. Institut. Lefon Studies
1. Health financing
a. Analysisireform study    11,662        34        14,042                              14,042       34                        34
b. Design of details:
- cost recovery            34,300    100         43,875                             43,875       106                       106
- fiu.rosourcs allo0.    51,450    150           65,813                             65,813       159                       159
2. MO  strategthening
a. Analysis/refor. study    51,474    150           61,978                              61,978      150                       150
b. Dsign of details          114,905    335        148,613                             148,613      360                       360
3. Health supply
A. Analysistreform study    33,805        99        40,704                              40,704       99                        99
b. Design of details          54,880    160         70,732                              70,732      171                       171
4. Public Healtb Institute
a. Analysis/refobr study    21,297        62        25,643                              25,643       62                        62
b. Desin of dtctils           36,015    105         46,418                              46.418      112                       112
5. Organitatiounl sodels of
public hospitals              16,807      49        20,237                              20,237       49                        49
6. MAC evaluation                100,945    294        91,516    46,026                   137,544      222    96                 318
Subtoutl                           527,539  1,538       629,573    46,026                   675,599   1,524    96                1,621
D. Hval. and Monitoring Design    20,580         60       24,780                              24,780       60                        60
Subtotal                            20,580      60       24,780                              24,780       60                        60
E. Design of Specific Programs        3,430      10         4,130                              4,130       10                         10
Subtotal                             3,430      10        4,130                               4,130       10                        10
.__._ .... -  .  ___----..---.__------_-_.___--------_-__--___----_._________--. .................._____............_
Total SNVSTM          COSTS         1,104,382  3,220    1,088,832   363,446        0      0  1,452,278   2,436   761        0    0  3,598
Total                           1,104,382  3,220    1,088,932   563,446         0     0  1,452,279   2,638   761         0    0  3,390
us         edby100........................                                                             .  ,.                    ....0



-102 _
Annex 1 0
Page 5 of 9
Annex 10. Table 4: DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES BY COMPONENT, CATEGORY
AND YEAR OP IMPLEMENTATION
TABLE 4.3: Pilot Tests/Start-Up Operations (CH$)
Base      D.C.tC ,                                                         Totals X.o2u14,u  Coutin.ne
Costs      us$               otals lcludiug Contilogeci.                              US$
......  ...   .... ...............................  ... .  ....  .  ..
93.96    93.96        1993       1994       1995    1996        Total       1993 1994 1995 1996  Total
1. IH9ETHSW COSTS
A. Information Syst.ss
1. Health ceutre,                 137,200    400        91,090   109,116                         199,206       221  226                 447
2. HOH                            205,S00    600    273,271                                      273,271       662                      662
Subtotal                            343,000  1,000       364,361    108,116                         472,477      682  226                1,109
D. Traitairg/Vorkshops                 68,600     200      65,646    26,073                           91,720       159   55                 214
Subtotal                             66,600    200        65,646    26,073                           91,720       159   55                 214
C. Reform Pilot Impl1utatiou
Program                           432,160  1,400       173,460   267,372 1$5,372  89,866         686,070       420  560  290  140  1,400
Subtotal                            432,160  1,400       173,460   267,372 155,372  99,866    696,070            420  560  290  140  1,400
.__ . _.__ .-.---_--_---_--__-----_-______-----__---------_-_--__._____------_____-_-___----_--_
Total ISVKN     COSTS                  943,780  2,600       603,468   401,56l 155,372  S9,S66  1,160,401    1,461  841  290  140  2,722
~~~~~~~~~~............. . .. . ......... .  -......... .  ...
Total                               843,760  2,600    603,469   401,561 135,372  89,866  1,160,401    1,461  841  290  140  2,722
- V.tu.s scaled by 1000,0 1010611991
Annex 10. Table 4: DETAILED PROJECT COST TAB.ES BY COMPONENT, CATEGORY
AND YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION
TABLE 4.4: Project Administration (CH$)
S.C. In                                                             Totals Including Contit.nclas
gaoe Costs        09                  Sotcl  including Cortougsocien                                US$
..........   ...... . .    .. ...... ........... .... .......  . ....... ........ . ,. .. .................__.._
93-96      93-96          1993       1994      1995      1996      Total       1993  1994  1995    1896   Total
_.________    ---------- _.__.._____.................................._____._________._ ------------------
1. :WVXSTWT COSTS
....... ....... _ _
A. Testn1og, travel                13,970              41      12,768      2,653     1,599     1,943    18,961         31      6      3       3      42
. tquipunt                         33,626             104      43,825      1,607         0          0   45,432        106      3      0       0     108
C. Vehicles                         5,489              16       6,833          0         0          0    6,833         17                            17
........   ......____._.___ _..   ......... __ .......____ ........   ................   .... ..._ ..... .....   .......... .. _
total 711N1     t COSTS              55,086             181      63,426    4,259       1,598     1,943   71,219         154      9      S       3     16S
it. IIc0S2rT COSTS
...............
A. Staff Salaries                 522,496           1,526     494.569  133,741   45,576   31,694  723,590           1.199   280    79        91  1.637
S. Other Operating Costs           79,748             233      76,193   25,137       7,828    9,297  118,438          184    S3    14        14    266
..  ___.......... .___ ............   ........  ..........  ____ ........    ___... ...............   .............. _ _.....  .............  ............
Total SZCOiUXI&   COSTS             603,243           1,759     570,752  158,579   S1,405   60,981  S42,016           1,582   513    93        95  1,102
.. .  .......   .. ......... .......... _ .... ......... ................. ......... ..............  ..  .... ..... .....   .......... .... .....  
Total                            658,330          1,919      634,178  163,138   53,003   62,923  913,242           1,536   342    98        to  2,071
,.                       ....e.,.
Value scaled by 1900.0  1010611991



- 103 -
Annexc 1 0
Page 6 of 9
Annex 10. Table 5:  CHILE - SUMARY ACCOUNTS (US$ 000)
X Total
Local     Poreigu         Total  Z Foreign           ase*
Ezchbage       Costs
I. ZUVESTKINT COSTS
A. Civil works                         13,654                    13,654          0.0         40.0
S. Consultat Servicoe                   3,194           151       3,345          4.5          9.8
C. Tralninlv/orkchops                     120           121         241         50.2          0.7
P. Equipment                              125        13,074      13,199         99.1         38.6
Z. Vebicles                                             570         570        100.0          1.7
1. Pilot Zaplesetation                  1,400                     1,400          0.0          4.1
Totel tIVI8fTEl   COSTS                 18,493        13,916      32,409         42.9         94.9
it. l.zC3R2 COSTS
A. Stdf salaries                        1,526                     1,526          0.0          4.5
A. Oporatig C0ostC                        233                       233          0.0          0.7
Total s !ZCOUUT COSTS                    1,759                     1,759          0.0          5.1
Totel IhSILIU COSTS                     20,232        13,916      34,168         40.7        100.0
htysical coutinenmies                  1,393           679       2,073         32.8
Prico coutin5encias                    2,049           983       3,031         32.4
Taxes                                   5998                     5,998          0.0
Totc1 PROJECT COSTS                     29,692        15,578      45,270         34.4



_ 104_
Annex 1 0
Page 7 of 9
Annex 10, Table 6:  CHILE - FINANCING PLAN (US$ 000)
JAPAN       CULZ
TOTAL       D0R8           GOVT         GOVT
A. HSPITAL UMAELITATION
Civil works                           16,739        3,658                    11,081
Kquip1Mnt                             13,720        13,720
Vehicles                                 622           622
Subtotal                                31,081       20,000                    11,081
S. STUDIES
Policy tramaork Studi-s                   70            10                       60
1*S1th Facilities Study                1,637         1,279         260           98
Inatitut. Reform Studies               1,621         1,409         120           92
Rvaluat. & Iontor. Design                 60            60
Design of Specific Programs               10            10
Subtotal                                 3,397         2,767         380          230
C. PILOT TZSTS/STA3T UP
opZTIONS
Information Systems                    1,109           909         200
Tracinin/Ucrksbops                       214            94         120
Pilot Implent. Program                 1,400         1,400
Subtotal                                 2,723         2,403         320
D. PROCT ADL'ISTRA?ION
Staff                                  1,637         1,468                      169
Zquvipmetlveblcl                         126            83                       41
Trainiug                                  42            30                       12
Operating coats                          266           248                       IS
Subtotal                                 2,071         1,831                      240
Total Jkcalin. costs + couting.          39,272        27,000          700      11,571
Taxas                                  5,998                                  5,998
Total P1JZCT COSTS                       45,270        27,000         700       17,570



-105 -                           Annex 10
Page 8 of 9
Annex 10. Table 7: QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Cumulative Disbursements a/
Quarter Ending                   Appraisal Estimate                 Cumulative
--(US$ Million)---                (Percent)
FY93:
September                            2.9                           10.6
December                             5.7                           21.1
March                                 8.6                          31.7
June                                11.4                           42.2
FY94:
September                           14.0                           51.9
December                             16.6                          61.5
March                                19.2                          71.1
June                                21.8                           80.7
FY95:
September                           22.7                           84.2
December                            23.7                           87.6
March                               24.6                           91.0
June                                25.5                           94.4
FY96:
September                           25.9                           95.8
December                            26.3                           97.2
March                               26.6                           98.6
June                                27.0                          100.0
a/ Credit assumed to become effective on March 1992.



- 106 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 9
Anex 10, Table Si PROCURED=T TIIgIA)LE
Estimated Anuusl Contractual and Other Payments
(USS uillion equivalont)
Pre-                                   Totol    Remarks
Project Eloent      Project    Ff93   FY94   FY95   FY96   Paymnt
LOAN TIING
SignizffecIClose          *                               *
CIVIL WORKS
Hospital Rahabilit.
Prequal/lid/Avard                        xxxx          XX
Construction                       4.5    5.9    3.0    1.5       14.9    LCB
Construction                       0.9    1.2    0.6    0.3        3.0   Other
GOODS,EQUIPENT,FDR7N-
ITURE,VHICLES               x     x               X
Medical equipmat,              (   2.6    3.3    0.7               6.6    ICB
vehicles, computer             (  3.9    4.0    1.8    0.9        10.6    LCB
equipenot                      C   1.2    1.5    0.3               3.0   Other
STUDIES 
Consulting Sorvicee                2.2    0.7                      2.9   Other
TRAINI                              _xx    ___
Managemnt Treining                  0.1    0.1                      0.2    N.A.
PROJECT AIAINIS-
TRATION              x0x    zm xz m
PCU *olarieo,other
operat. costs                      1.4    0.4    0.1    0.1       2.0   Otber
PILOT PROGRAM                       zzxx          XXXI Zlm
Pilot Investeuont                  0.4    0.6    0.3    0.1        1.4   Other
MISCELLANEOUSL
Refinancing PPF             0.7                                    0.7    NA.
TOTALS                        0.7   17.2   17.7    6.8    2.9       45.3
(Bank-Financed)              (0.7) (10.7) (10.4)  (3.7)  (1.5)    (27.0)



- 107 -                                   Annex 11
Page 1 of 4
Annexlls    CHILE - OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
(PCU)
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be eatablished to assist in
the oversight of project implementation. The PCU will report to the Ministry
of Health's (MOH) Director of the Office of the Multilateral Credit. This
Office, which is under the direct supervision of the Minister of Health, is
primarily responsible for coordinating the preparation and implementation of
the IDB- and IBRD-financed health projects.
The functions of the PCU are to:
(a)   Prepare the terms of reference, hire under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, and supervise consultants who will carry
out the technical assistance studies and pilot-testing of selected
recommendations;
(b)   Coordinate the participation and consultation with the relevant
departments of the MOH and the HSAs in the different stages of the
preparation and review of recommendations of the technical
assistance studies and pilot test/startup operations;
(c)   Approve on a preliminary basis the documents produced by the
consultants and request final approval of these documents by the
MOH;
(d)   Advise the Health Services on the formulation and management of
the hospital rehabilitation subprojects, providing training and
support for resolving any problems that may arise in the various
phases of preparation and implementation.
(e)   Review and approve the hospital rehabilitation subprojects
submitted by the HSAs according to the criteria ayreed on with the
World Bank. Submit the approved subprojects to the Ministry of
Planning for the latter's validation;
(f)   Assist and supervise the HSAs in the formulation of bidding
contracts for approved subprojects; supervise the drafting of
contracts between suppliers and the HSAs for the execution of
subprojects;
(g)   Ensure that the bidding competitions for works, equipment and/or
studies are carried out in accordance with the rules and
procedures agreed on by the Bank and the Government for the
purpose.
(h)   Ensure that the works, equipment and/or studies under execution
are in line with the requirements of the work programs for each
project.
(i)   Coordinate and control the flow of funds for subprojects under
execution, reporting on the needs and progress of disbursement to
the Office of the Under-Secretary for Health and to DIPLAP.



- 108 -                        Annex ll
Page 2 of 4
x    lit CHILE - OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
(PCU) (Cont'd)
(j)   Require periodic reports from the HSAs on the atatus of physical
and financial progress of the subprojects.
(k)   Maintain a record of the status of approved subprojects, the
amount approved and disbursed, and progress indicators for each
subproject under executLon.
(1)   Advise the MOH on matters concerning the subprojects, reporting
periodically on their physical and financLal progress, and
proposlng corrective weasures when necessary.
(m)   Act as MOH counterpart for the World Bank missions with respect to
the preparation, coordination, submisslon, negotiation, execution
and other activities related to the project;
(n)   Prepare progress reports and any special reports requested by the
world Bank.
INTERNAL ORGANIZATION OF THE PCU
The PCU will be headed by a Project Coordinator who-will be
assisted by three subunit heads: the technical coordinator for the hospital
rehabllitation subprojects; the technical coordinator for the studies and
pilot test/startup operations; and the administrative.coordinator. The PCU
organizational set-up is shown in Attachment 1. The PCU will comprise a total
of four senior level professionals, 24 technical staff, and seven support
staff. The functions of these PCU members are described below:
I.          Office of the Proiect Coord4nator General.  The Project
Coordinator will be responsible for the technical and
administrative management of the MOH-World Bank projects. The
following three offices will report to him:
A.    Office of the Coordinator for Technical Assistancet  This unit
will be responsible for the technical monitoring of the studies
and the pilot test/start up operations in the following areas:
Health Care System/Infrastructure InvestmeatAequxrements; Health
Financing; Institutional Development and Tralning; Central Supply
Facility and the Public Health Institute.
B.    Office of the Technical Coordinator for the Hosoital
Rehab&litation Suboroiects: This office will be responsible for
the management and supervision of the hospital rehabilitatlon
subprojects. It will have three subunits: Subprojects Plans and
Programs; Works Execution; and Budget and Monitoring.
C.    Office of the Coordinator for Administration and Finances: This
office will be responsible for the administrative management and
financial control of the MOH-World Bank projects. It will have the
following subunits: Finances, and Internal
Administration.



- 109 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 4
Annex lls CHILE - OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
(PCU) (Cont'd)
STAFFING BY WORK AREA
1 Project Coordinator General
-     1 Legal adviser
1 Technical Assistance Coordinator
-     3 professionals for infrastructure area
-     1 professional for institutional development and training
area
-     1 professional for Public Health Institute and Supply Center
area
-     I professional for health care system
-     1 professional for financing area
-     1 professional for informatics area
1 Hospital Rehabilitation Coordinator
-     3 professionals for works execution area
-     3 professionals for budget execution area
-     6 professionals for subproject plans and programs area
1 PCU Administration and Finances Coordinator
-     1 professional for finances area
=     -3 professionals for internal administration area



Annex 1: CHILE - OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION UIEIT
(PCU) (Contfd)
MOH-IRRD
GENERAL
COORDINATOR
LE13AL 
|COUNSEL|
|E HSRP      .EHRP                            INTERNAL
TECHNICAL                                          ADMIN.~~ItoECl
| COO RD I N AOR           .C O O R DlNAT O RCOQOR DI NATOR
AREAS                           I   . _ .                                                S
INSTITUTIONAL   INFORMATION                CIVIL                   INTEflHAL
_ DVELEOPMENT a       YTY      _SIA                                  DSlTlTe
IgILLS TRAININI
ISTSTfM OF _            HEALTH
FlNANCING         HEALTH                of fRYICE _ 
-          ~~~~CARlE             w AOJ EC77.                        
.  ,    -              .                              JO X~~~~~~~~~0,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 '              



Annex 12: CMILE - SUBPROJECT PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT CYCLE
ACTIVITIES                                SUPPLIERS                  SERVICE              P.C..U             CONTROLLER
APPROVE PROJECT
SEND STANDARD SID DOCS.
PREPARE INDIVIDUAL BIDS
INVfII SUPPWUERS                                             -.
SUPPLIERS REC. DID DOCS.
PRESENT OFFER5S                                                                                                                     i-.
ANALYZE AND AWARD
VERIFY AWARDS
SIGN CONTRACTS
ISSUE RESOLUTION
SEND FOR REVIEW
APPROVE RESOLUTION                                                     l           _.i
BEGIN EXECUON                                                h
REQUEST PAYMENT                               [i}                  -
FOR ORDER
REVIEW PAYMENT REQUEST
ID
PAY ORDER
PROGRESS REPORT



- 112 -                                 Annex 13
Annex 13
MAJOR PROJECT REVIEWS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
The project would have two major reviews during its four year
implementation period: (a) an Action Plan Status Review by July 1992 to take
stock of the progress of compliance with the target dates of the activiti-s
planned in the Action plan; and (b) a Mid-term Review by June 1993 to evaluate
the project's implementation progress and contribution to the development of
appropriate health sector policies. Approximately one month before the
intended reviews the Government would prepare a short report summarizing
progress in achieving the objectives in the areas described below.
A.   Action Plan Status Review
The Action Plan Status Review would focus on assessing:
(i) the completion of the diagnostic stages of the policy and institutional
reform studies; (ii) the status of discussions between the Bank and the
Government on the different studies' recommendations; (iii) the adoption of
reforms which would not need elaborate legal or institutional changes; and
(iv) the eligible investments for the Pilot Implementation Program. One of
the end results of the Review would be a Government's policy letter specifying
the actions that have been adopted and/or would be adopted, as well as the
actions/programs that would be pilot tested with TAHRP financing. Also, the
Action Plan would be updated based on the Review's findings.
B.  Mid-term Proiect Review
The Mid-term Project Review would focus on assessing the project's
overall implementation progress. Specifically, it would evaluate (i) the
status of activities outlined in the Action Plan; (ii) the progress of
implementation of the hospital rehabilitation subprojects, including the
status of physical execution, financing situation, loan disbursement,
procurement, and timeliness of monitoring reports; (iii) the status of the
health care services in the 17 project hospitals as reflected in the services
indicators that would be previously agreed upon with the Government (based on
the results of the Monitoring and Evaluation Study); (iv) the need to update
the subproject selection criteria based on the recommendations of the policy
studies; and (iv) the status of the MOH institutional changes that would lead
to the absorption of the i'LU functions by the appropriate MOH departments,
agencies and/or HSAs.
The Review would generate a set of recommendations and
corresponding schedule that would revise and/or expand the Action Plan. Based
on the schedule set at the Hid-term Review, the Government would initiato the
appropriate activities in the Action Plan to ensure continued progress in
project implementation.



Annex 14
- 113 -                              Page 1 of 5
WORKING PAPERS AND LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES
A. Working Papers
Ministerio de Salud. 1991. Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation
Prolect (TAHRP): main document and annex volumes 1-4. Santiago, Chile:
Oficina de Credito Multilateral.
Minsterio de Salud. 1991. Terminos de Referencia TAHRP. Santiago, Chile:
Oficina de Credito Multilateral.
B. Documents Reviewed for Lessons Learned
Bamberger, Michael and Shabbir Cheema. 1990. Case studies of project
sustainability: implications for policy and operations from Asian
experience. Washington, D.C.: EDI/World Bank.
Bossert, Thomas J. 1990. Can they get alone without us?: sustainability of
donor-su1ported health prolects in Central America and Africa. Social
Science and Medicine 30(9), 1015-1023.
Bowden, Peter. Problems of implementation. 1986. Public Administration and
Development 6(1), 61-71.
Bank.
Griffin, Charles C. 1991. The need to change health care priorities, Finance
and Development (March), 45-47.
Heller, Peter. 1979. The underfinancing of recurrent development costs.
Inter-American Development Bank. 1988. Summary of ex-post evaluations of
public health Programs. Washington, D.C.: Inter-American Development
Maarse, J.A. H. et al. 1990. Changing relations between hospitals and primarv
health care: new challenges for hospital management. International
Journal of Health Planning and Management (5), 53-57.
Measham, Anthony R. 1986. Health and development: the Bank's exrerience,
Finance and Development (December), 26-29.
Netherlands Development Cooperation. 1987. Hosgital based health care:
evaluative summary of Dutch supported activities in the field of
hospital-based health care 1975-1984. Hague: Netherlands Development
Cooperation.
Waddinton, Catriona and Margaret Thomas. 1988. Recurrent costs in the health
sector of developing countries. International Journal of Planning and
Management (3), 151-166.
Finance and Development (March) 38-41.
Willson-Pepper, C.R. 1982. The place of local social realities in development
work, Public Administration and revelopment (11), 195-205.



- 114 -                              Annex 14
Page 2 of 5
World Bank. 1986. Bangladesh. Population Prolect (Loan No: 0533) Audit Report.
Washington, D.C. : World Bank.
World Bank. 1989. Bangladesh, Second Population and Familv Health Project
(Loan No: 0921) Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Bolivia, Emergency Social Fund Proiect (Loan No: 1829) Audit
Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1983. Botswana, Francistown Urban Development ProJect (Loan No:
0471) Completion Report. Washinigton, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Brazil, Northwest Region Development (Loan No: 2061)
Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1989. Brazil, Area Development Prolect (Loan Nos: 1488, 1537,
1728) Audit Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1978. Colombia, Caqueta Land Colonization Proiect (Loan No: 0739)
Audit Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1988. Colombia, Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project (Loan No:
1487) Audit Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
TWorld Bank. 1985. Dominican Republic. Population and Familv Health (Loan No:
1325) Audit Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1982. Egypt, Population Project (Loan No: 0437) Audit Report.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1982. India. Population Project (Loan No: 0312) Audit Report.
Washingto7i, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1'90. India, Second Population Project (Loan No: 0981) Audit
Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Indonesia, Population Proiect (Loan No: 0300) Audit Report.
Washin;;ton, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Indonesia. Nutrition Development Project (Loan No: 1373)
Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1988. Indonesia, Third Population Project (Loan No: 1869)
Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1982. Iran. Population Project (Loan No:0928) Audit Report.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Jamaica. Second Population Project (Loan No: 1284) Audit
Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1979. Jamaica, Population Project (Loan No: 0690) Audit Report.
Washington, D.C.: Wlorld Bank.



- 115 -                              Annex 14
Page 3 of 5
World Bank. 1981. Kenya. Population Proiect (Loan No:0468) Audit Report.
Washington, D.C.s World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Korea, Population Proiect (Loan No: 1774) Audit Report.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1989. Liberia. Monrovia Urban Development Prolect (Loan No: 1223)
Audit Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Malaysia. Population Prolect (Loan No: 0880) Completion
Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1989. Malaysia. Second Population and Family Health Project (Loan
No: 1680) Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Mexico. Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan No: 10532
Audit Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Nepal. Rural Development Proiect (Loan No: 0617) Completion
Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Nepal. Second Rural Development Project (Loan No: 0939)
Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1982. Operational Policy Review: Compliance with Loan Covenants.
(Report No: 4090)   Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1983. Paraguay, Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development (Loan
No: 0509) Audit report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Paraguay, Second Rural Development Prolect (Loan No: 1418)
Completion ReRort. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1986. Peru, Urban Sites and Services Development Project (Loan No:
1283) Audit report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1985. Philippines, Population Prolect (Loan No: 1035) Audit
Report. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1989. Philippines, Rural Infrastructure Project  Loan No: 0790)
C-mRletion Report. Washington, D.C: World Bank.
World Bank. 1990. Population, health, and nutrition annual sector review for
1990. Washington, D.C.: World Bank. 105 pp.
World Bank. 1988. Thailand.-Population,Project (Loan       0767) Audit Report.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
World Bank. 1981. Trinidad and Tobago. Population Proiect (Loan No: 0743)
Audit Reort. Washington, D.C.: World bank.
World Bank. 1984. Tunisia, Population Project (Loan No: 0238) Audit report.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank.



Annex 14
-  116  ~                     Page 4 of 5
C. General Documents
Minsterio de Salud. Analisis y Diagnostico de Central de Abastecimiento.
Ministerio de Salud. Antecedentes: Cursos Formacion Auxiliares Paramedicos de
Enfermaria.
Ministbrio de Salud. Aporte Fiscal Adicional a MInisterio de salud.
Ministerio de Salud. Chart showing the flow of funds in the health sector.
Mini.crerio de Salud. Clinica Alemana - Resumen de Actividades y Esatdos
Financieros 1989.
Ministerio de Salud. Cluinica Alemana   Sociedad de Beneficencia Hospital
Alemen.
Ministerio de Salud. Descripcion de Cada Servicio de salud en al area del
proyecto.
Ministerio de Salud. Decreto Ley 2763 (July 11, 1979) - Reorganiz2 el
Ministerio de Salud y Crea los Servicios de salud; El Fondo Nacional de
Salud, El Instituto de Salud Publica y la Central de Abastecimiento del
Sistema Nacional de Servicios de salud.
Minsterio de Salud. Desarollo del Sistema de Salud Previsional en Chile
(Associacion de Isapres)
Minsterio de Salud. Diagnostico de Situacion del Servicio de Salud
Antofagasta.
Ministerio de Salud. Diagram showing relationship between Ministerio del
Interior (municipalidad) and Ministerio de Salud.
Ministerio de Salud. Estructura Sector Salud.
Minsterio de Salud. Evaluacion del programa Integrado de Salud Materno
Infantil.
Ministerio de Salud. Gasto Devengados en BS de Consumo 1981-1989.
Ministerio de Salud. Gasto Publico en Salud 1974-1989 (1986 current prices).
Ministerio de Salud. Gasto Publico en Salud 1974-1989 (current prices).
Ministerio de Salud. Indicadores Biodemograficos 1988.
Ministerio de Salud. Informe 1989 - Asociacion de Isapres.
Ministerio de Salud. Ingresos en Salud Sectorial 1974-1989 (current prices).
Ministerio de Salud. Ingresos en Salud Sectorial 1974-1989 (1986 prices).



- 117 -                             Annex 14
Page 5 of 5
Ministerio de Salud. Ley No. 18469 (November 23, 1985) - Regula el ejercicio
del derecho constitucional a la protecion de la salud y crea un regimen
de prestaciones de salud.
Minsterio de Salud. Ley No. 18933 - Crea la Superintendencia de ISAPRES y
Deroga el Decreto con Fuerza de Ley No. 3 de Salud de 1981 (Marzo 3,
1990).
Ministerio de Salud. Listado de Prestaciones de salud Primaria (valor uonidad
arancelaria a Mayo 1990).
Minsterio de Salud. Numero y Tipo de Hospitales de Cada Region.
Minsterio de Salud. Participacion de Ministerios en el Gasto Publico 1990.
Minsterio de Salud. Project Paper: Promocion de la Salud y el Bienestar
Familiar en Sectores Rurales Pobres - Chile.
Ministerio de Salud. Resultado Presupuestario y de Caja de los Servicios de
salud al 31 de Die. 1989.
Minsterio de Salud. Reglamento No. 300 - Aprueba Reglamento del Fondo Nacional
de salud.
Minsterio de Salud. Situacion Actual del servicio de Salud Metropolitana
Occidente.
Minsterio de Salud. Situacion Actual del Servicio de Salud Metropolitana Sur
(Hospital Barros Luco). Ministerio de Salud. Techos FAPEM 1990.
Ministerio de Salud. Transferencia de recursos FONASA-SNSS.
UNICEF. Documents on children.



IBRD 23251
\ PERU
, \BOLIVIA   ' BRAZIL                                             CHILE
20'                       20                         PUBLIC AND PRIVATE HOSPITALS
CH'LE1t  ' ~ARAGUYj,                            IN METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO
'~~~~        I-,
30'   ;  ARGENTINA                           TYPE OF PREDOMINANT HEALTH SERVICES:              TYPE OF HOSPITAL:
:                                PUBLIC                                    PUBLIC
Santiagoeg   tURUGU;Y   _    PUBLIC  0    PRIVATE
i1' 1=1                                    A       MILITARY
0                 40:                                  :I PRIVATE                U       PRIVATE / PUBLIC MIX
.0. .W i    , J   *o             ABOUT EQUAL PROPORTION                   MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
50'      70' 
'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h WoAfloh ...  .'.'. o':..'
El~~                                                                                  .TE ALOF,n. ,,,,
VI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     10
/L7O1S BARNE    P
CONCHALI
EST CEWR                       El ..EtA/ \S,  j;,.    ;s< J 
CERRIUS/ j _0_;   / SN. MIGUEL \JOAOUIN    \
-   7  /             <      / U~~~~~LACISTERNA   LA \IGRANJA    IA FLORIDA 
>/ EL SOSUE  /
ys.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h pR. I_
t             Iroorr o en ezoe$$eal or~~lh. 
SEPTEMBER 1991



IBRD 23358
t2'                         7-t     !              A           7                                     C          7?                       '   B                                             'n'    C
P E R U                                                                                                            r c    r
ISV                            Pe,inecoia,          <         REGION       La LiguR                   Z        REGION    tonari                    3
GE         0         Sa  Fila                     E
ArIco                         >      VAL-PARAISO        V                                'O.UIMEC                                                                    S Iouth
o/  Aa    CeLos               S          r SE  INE  C                                                                                                        c
0                                                ED      SEEINSE T                         3 2'C
ARAloa              Le AAie ,
co              VALP     O                                                                                                        P  AsjB
DE ~ ~ ~~~                                            SE lrE 23  1Satag REGION   xcs ie                r                                                                  '.          oSATLEA3LlTOSSRJ
V./p-,                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COIRAIQVE*
REGIONTOFA3AST                                                                                                                             REGION   AISEN   DEL 36'na;qoE CaBqug  36-       .    .    RAILROADS
REGION                         San Antonio/X1II                               SE       M C-or---: 4!
DE                                             S.. Ao 0        Talaoa         Pogle eVALPARAISO                                          GENERAL CARLOS
TARDAPACA      UIE                    L            .              JR i   EIOillOerE C.)n    )                                                 IBANEZ DEL CAMP
-340                                                                                                                         C.,t        h-
724*                                                                    NCAG9j                                                                         C ;   y  24'   Ca 1n  0  *   -   HAPITALS  SD'
EGION DEL LIBERADOR                S                                                                             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
-22I n                                                GENERAL BERNARDO OIHIGCINS                        oa                 -4E                      z                         HOSPITAL REHABILITATION
22'  Tanapill                                    22?                R     Naaoa PraY                                                                                                        PROJECT
Maria  CEnta'1                                                                                                                                                          F       OSPITAL REHAEILITATION DUE PROJECT
26'   z >=v  /             .                     26'      LA AflAUCANIA            tt            i              _                                                      _                             -\~~~~~~~~DE  LOCTIO
CE"                              ElAeaLE                                                                                                                                                     MA- tEN ROADS
DE                    GO . \. 
ANTOFASASTA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rs36'                                                                                                            .---RAILROADS
REGION OF                                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEINE LAKED
ANTOFAGASTAI                                               REGON DL  Tai Cawr                                                                     XII          /                           CE FIELDS
OE                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                so.
ATACAMA          X                   /                               24V.        DE                                                                                                                         REGION .  2   REGION DE MAGE CAPiTALS
no00--  PROVINCE BOUNDAnIDE
xi
(          oMoin REGION BOUNDARIES AND NLMERES
< 738-381-                                                                                     i     Espeiora                          '     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
To)ll       \4                  <oin/i-oibrce                               s7                                                       6                                                                                        6
REGION  -pt    ,Ls   *         pesThovio/tEonGooupREGION                         TEMU        o /  JL T
DE   X  t L   z \  f     tntludfmenl on Ihe/vu,l,1o,,,5  1 1               /                r                  z             52-                                                                                      52
26 t '        hoRm                                                       26'     LA ARAUCANIA         ;7                                                                                                 -O                                R
-3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
K         IS/dNa                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Magalla"s   "ZJN A
REGION            coip                     '(                             R                           alrr                                 0                                                              Pra,
DE                 COIP-/                                3                                                                      3Tllarnt 
ATACAMA                   II                                                                                                                     54'                                                         On Fuago,
.28'                                   2ii                                        REGION                                               D
I                                G~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                       R EGION GE MAGALLANES Y
LOS LAGOroSVras<                                                    DR LA ANTARTICA CH/ILENA
42-                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~42'                                              AntA nice LShilene
rroor.sraro.oII/nrra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,o ~~56'                                                                                                                  6
.30'  L  EREO       Sniirnfso   W,dn*Cao
Caqal,=b                                   noir= lns.udo          30 rouPaloa a                                                                                                                                   o     10    5      0
REGION                                           Orr/onrlrol/                                                       IKiLMEER
DE                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KILOMETEoRSnlaastfa
6'   ~ ~~~~~~~~i&"'taS)   n(                           tp'                   Of?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~76  74'     7?              70'             6R'
OCTOBRE 1991



