Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18019
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3427-CH)
June 15, 1998
Country Managing Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -- Chilean Peso (Ch$)
1991 US$1 = Ch$349
1997 US$1 = Ch$419
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CENABAS:  Health Procurement Center (Central de Abastecimiento para Salud)
CDT:         Diagnosis and Therapeutic Center (Centro de Diagnostico y Terapeutico)
CRS:         Health Referral Center (Centro de Referencia de Salud)
DRG:         Diagnosis-Related Group (Pago Asociado a Diagnostico)
FONASA:   National Health Fund (Fondo Nacional de Salud)
HSA:         Health Service Area (Sevicios de Salud)
HSRP:        Health Sector Reform Project
ICR:         Implementation Completion Report
ISAPRE:      Prepaid Health Insurance Institutions (Instituciones de Salud Previsional)
ISP:         Public Health Institute (Instituto de Salud Publica)
LA:          Loan Agreement
LIL:         Learning and Innovation Lending
MOH:         The Ministry of Health
MS:          Metropolitan Santiago
MTR:         Mid-Term Review
PAD:         Diagnosis-Related Payment (Pago Asociado a Diagnostico)
PC:          Performance Contract
PCU:         Project Coordination Unit
PNAC:        National Food Supplementation Program (Programa Nacional de Alimentacion
Complimentaria)
PPF:         Project Preparation Facility
PPP:         Prospective Fee Payment Schedule (Pago Prospectivo de Prestaciones)
SBD:         Standard Bidding Document
TAHRP:       Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project
WB:          The World Bank
Vice-President:         Shahid Javed Burki
CGMU Director:          Myrna Alexander
SMU Director (Acting):   Xavier Coll
Task Manager:           Kye Woo Lee



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Preface                      ................................................. ii
Evaluation Summary .................................................                                iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT   .                                       ...........................1
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND ..................................................1
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..................................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..................................................              3
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ................................................. 13
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS ............................... 15
F. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................................                   15
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME  ..................................................                        18
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..................................................                           18
PART II: GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR                                          ..  21
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES                            ............................................. 25
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ...................................                      26
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans ...................................                          27
Table 3: Project Timetable .28
Table 4:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .29
Table 5: Key Monitoring Actions .30
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project .34
Table 7a: Project Costs ...............................                                    38
Table 7b: Project Financing ...............................                                39
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................                    40
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions ...............................                        41
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...............................                        42
Table 11: Assessment of Project Outcomes ...............................                   46
Appendices:  A:           Mission's Aide Memoire
B:       Government's Comments on the ICR
C:   Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3427-CH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance and
Hospital Rehabilitation Project (TAHRP) in Chile, for which Loan 3427-CH in the amount of
US$27.0 million was approved on December 17, 1991, and became effective on April 1992. The
Loan was closed on December 31, 1997, one and a half years beyond the original schedule. The
last disbursement was made on November 26, 1997.
This ICR was prepared by Kye Woo Lee in collaboration with Sandra Rosenhouse and
Patricia Bernedo of the Human Development Sector Management Unit and reviewed by Xavier
Coll of the same unit, and Alexandre Abrantes of the Country Managing Unit for Argentina,
Chile and Uruguay of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II, with contribution to Part III).
Preparation of the ICR was done during the Bank's final supervision mnission of the
project in January 1998 and is based, inter alia, on the Sectoral Analyses Report, the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports, Mid-Term Review reports prepared
by the Borrower and the Bank, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal
Bank memoranda. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR through a review of
project performance and commented on the draft ICR.



111
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3427-CH)
Evaluation Summary
Project Background. By 1990, Chile achieved significant advances in the health sector
and moved from the first to the second stage of the epidemiological transition. Average life
expectancy is among the highest; and infant, child and maternal mortality rates among the lowest
in the developing world. Adult health problems, chronic diseases, and non-child infectious
diseases represented an increasing share of health care demand. And the third stage of
epidemiological transition was already evident in the increasing environment-related illnesses
and social pathologies.
However, the health sector had problems with the quality and efficiency of services at all
levels of the system. The most critical problems were the lack of complementarity among
different levels of care and low internal efficiency in service delivery. These problems were
caused partly by the epidemiological changes, but also partly by the government policies
favoring the primary health care and the private sector, neglecting the modernization and
maintenance of public hospitals. Public hospitals, which provide secondary and tertiary services
for the poorer, faced a serious situation in particular in the Metropolitan Santiago (MS) area.
Other problems causing inefficiency were distortions in the pricing and the pattern of utilization
of health services, resulting from the existing mode of health services financing; limitations in
the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and its decentralized autonomous
entities; and harmonization of services and financing between the public and private sectors.
With the advent of a civilian government in early 1990, improving the efficiency and
quality of the social sector programs, especially the health sector reform program, was high on its
agenda to assure its platform of "economic growth with equity." For this purpose, the
Government sought World Bank (WB) assistance, and the WB responded by providing the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$0.7 million in October 1990 for the preparation of the
Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP). However, the preparation activities needed additional
financing, time, and studies to accelerate the project preparation and form a national consensus.
Moreover, the MOH was in dire need of responding to the public pressure to rehabilitate/upgrade
the public hospitals in MS. Therefore, in February 1991, the Government and the WB agreed to
cofinance a Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project (US$45.3 million) with a
Bank loan of US$27 million and the Japanese Government Grant of US$ 0.7 million.
Project Objectives. The Project aims to develop and launch a sector-wide policy,
institutional and operational reforms through various technical studies, pilot-tests and start-up
operation of some reform measures (Sectoral Reform Preparation) and improve the quality and
efficiency of public hospital services in MS through rehabilitation of physical facilities (Hospital
Rehabilitation). The hospital rehabilitation was to be identified, prepared and approved under



iv
the responsibility of the Health Service Areas (HSAs), and this decentralized mode of operation
in itself was a separate objective of the project. These objectives were consistent with the
Government development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy in the early 1990s, both of
which pursued economic growth with equity.
Achievement of Project Objectives. Although the project was completed in six years
(the average implementation period in Chile), instead of the four years estimated at appraisal, the
project was implemented efficiently and highly satisfactorily with only 15% cost overruns.
HSAs met the urgent rehabilitation needs in major 17 public hospitals in MS in a decentralized
manner. The five areas of policy, institutional, and operational studies were also mostly carried
out in time. The PCU, too, transferred its executing functions to various line departments of the
MOH in time.
The five sectoral preparation studies cover: (a) policy framework; (b) health facility
needs; (c) institutional reform; (d) special programs; and (e) monitoring and evaluation systems.
The pilot tests and start-up operations included: (a) information systems; (b) training and
workshops; and (c) other pilot tests. Except for a few; all these studies and operations were
completed satisfactorily and made far reaching contributions to the preparation and
implementation of the health sector reform program.
As part of the policy framework studies, the Government submitted to the Bank a sectoral
policy letter assuring Government's commitment to implement the reform program. The
program adopted two guiding principles: to establish a public-private complementary health
system, and decentralize the system to attain a higher level of participation and efficiency.
Another important guiding principle was to strengthen the ambulatory services at secondary and
tertiary levels by establishing Health Referral Centers (CRS) and Diagnostic and Therapeutic
Centers (CDT).
Following up the policy guidelines, the health facility need studies identified the facilities
gap in the health service network in three regions (MS, Antofagasta, and Llanchipal) and
elaborated the architectural design and engineering plans. These studies provided the technical
basis for the investment component of the HSRP, i.e., rehabilitation or construction of 12
hospitals, 5 CRSs, and 5 CDTs.
The institutional reform studies further incorporated the reform program principles and
operationalized them concretely. The studies deepened the decentralization principle by giving
the policy and norm setting, and regulatory roles to the MOH, financing and management of the
public health insurance system to the National Health Insurance Fund (FONASA), and executing
and service delivery functions to the autonomous decentralized agencies (HSAs, ISP,
CENABAS, PNAC, municipalities, etc.).
The Government studied the distortions of the current health financing mechanisms and
the cost recovery system, and recommended new mechanisms for allocating resources to
executing agencies. For secondary and tertiary care services, the Government decided to allocate
resources to HSAs on the basis of a Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) payment system, which
replaces the conventional fee-for-service payment system; and for primary care services, to



v
municipalities on the basis of a fixed amount (capitation) for each persons enrolled at health
centers. However, the new mechanisms apply to only 21 of a total of 29 HSAs and do not apply
to hospitals within a HSA.
The Government also adopted the studies' recommendations that FONASA strengthen its
human resources and modernize its financial control and information systems. Consequently,
FONASA improved cost recovery and insurance premium collection systems, reduced subsidies
to ISAPRE members, and promoted sales of services to the private sector. However, hospitals
cannot yet retain the recovered costs without the penalty in its next year budget; hence, there is
room for further improvement.
As a result of the MOH strengthening studies, the MOH restructured its organization to
emphasize its normative role and promote decentralization with accountability. The MOH also
studied alternative modalities for operating CDTs and CRSs and decided to keep them under
HSAs until a new law is approved by the National Congress for more autonomy and flexibility.
In the course of the restructuring, the execution functions of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) were delegated to line departments, and the monitoring and coordinating functions were
divided into two groups, which belonged to two separate departments which were not directly
linked to top executive of one MOH. As such PCU was virtually transformed to a budgeting and
accounting unit for the infrastructure component of the project, and as a result, the MOH has no
one unit effectively coordinating and monitoring the progress in the reform.
The MOH also established priorities of public health interventions on the basis of the
burden of diseases and beneficiary's perception. These priorities, together with the DRG and
performance contract systems, serve as a basis for allocating resources to the decentralized
executing agencies. However, they would be further refined based on the rigorous cost-effective
analysis under the HSRP in 1998.
The MOH intended to install an information system within the MOH and the
decentralized executing agencies and among themselves. But the implementation went through
trials and errors due to the diverse sources of financing without a universal system or national
norms, and the lack of prior training of future users. It was finally being implemented under the
HSRP. This delay had adverse impact on the implementation of all major components of the
sectoral reform program.
Other elements of the studies to strengthen the MOH were postponed to a later stage and
implemented under the HSRP, due partly to the resistance of employees, and partly to the lower
priority awarded to this component of the reform. They included, among others, launching the
performance contract with the decentralized executing agencies, especially with HSAs, to link
resource allocations with their performance, the management training programs to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the decentralized entities and the MOH, and elaborating human
resources management strategy to improve efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery
through proper staffing, remuneration, career development and evaluation, and job satisfaction.
The alternative model for managing public hospitals will only be started in 1998 to deepen the
decentralization process.



vi
Other decentralized agencies, such as the Central Procurement Agency (CENABAS), the
Public Health Institute (ISP), and the National Food Supplementation Program (PNAC), also
took measures to improve efficiency and quality of public health services by ensuring efficient
procurement of medicines, medical supplies and supplementary foods; by strengthening control
of the quality of drugs, foods, laboratories, and supplementary food distribution operations.
However, some recommendations have not yet been implemented due to the vested interest of
the stakeholders. They include, in particular, separating production of some biological products
from the normative and regulatory functions in the ISP, and targeting the supplementary food
distribution to those groups lacking in resources and running high risks in the PNAC.
The project had two special programs; one, to find ways to stimulate a strong
participation of the private citizens in taking preventive environmental measures; and the other,
to design actions to diminish women's mortality from cervical cancer. Both of them were
studied successfully under the TAHRP and were pilot tested under the HSRP.
The project also included a component to develop a system to monitor the implementation
and to evaluate the costs and benefits of the investments- under the HSRP, and apply the system
to the operations of the hospitals that were rehabilitated under the TAHRP. However, the system
has never been developed, except that an opinion survey was conducted among hospital
managers and staff, and therefore, little is known about the quality and efficiency of public health
sector operations. The system would be developed under the HSRP in 1998.
The hospital rehabilitation objectives were attained fully by financing 188 rehabilitation
subprojects in seven phases. About half the subproject costs were on civil works and the other
half on the equipment replacement. The decentralization objective was satisfactorily achieved by
the active participation of the HSAs in the identification, preparation and execution of the
subprojects in competition with other eligible HSAs. However, hospitals in poorer areas
received much less benefits than those in the richer areas due to the weaker institutional capacity.
Major Factors Affecting the Project. The delays in the achievement of the project
objectives were affected mostly by the shortcomings in executing the allocated budgets in 1992
and 1995 (73% and 80%, respectively), and the shortage of budget provisions in 1994. The
amount of the shortages was about the same as the total expenditures defrayed during the last two
years of the extended implementation. Despite the strong pipeline of subprojects, the HSAs
experienced difficulties in tendering, awarding, and contracting the rehabilitation work, receiving
transfers from the center on time, and using them in a flexible manner.
Despite the consensus achieved during the project preparation, the implementation of the
reform program faced opposition by the public and stakeholders, as in many other reforms. The
public dissemination of the reform measures and the project components designed to alleviate
this risk, in particular the training activities for the MOH staff, were not actively implemented,
and important stakeholders such as municipalities did not get on board the reform program.
Although the decentralized manner of project implementation strengthened the
institutional capacity of the executing agencies, those with weak institutional capacity, in
particular those with poorer human resources, were lagging behind in execution, and the



vii
Government did not allocate sufficient resources to assist them in the project execution.
Moreover, the competitive manner of financing subprojects did not help maintain an even pace
of project implementation among executing agencies.
Bank's performance was marked by responsiveness with ample flexibility, technical
expertise, and innovations throughout the project cycle. It helped the Government to prepare a
sectoral reform program which served as a basis for assistance by other bilateral and multilateral
aid agencies. But the Bank could have stepped up its supervision and technical assistance efforts
when the project faced difficulties in executing budgets, PCU restructuring, information systems,
monitoring and evaluation systems, and pilot tests.
Project Sustainability and Outcomes. The reform measures initiated under the TAHRP
would be sustained through the implementation of the HSRP, which has the necessary political
and financial commitment of the Government. This is particularly so in the areas of health
financing, outpatient ambulatory cares, human resources management strategy, and information
systems.
The decentralization objectives of the project would be sustained satisfactorily owing to
the decentralized entities' institutional capacity, which was enhanced through the competitive
and decentralized manner of the project implementation.
Although project hospitals appear to operate more efficiently than before, there are no
indications yet that they are performing better than non-project hospitals. Operations of the
public hospitals would not improve or remain efficient unless adequate operational and
maintenance funds are provided on a continuing basis. Moreover, if the monitoring and
evaluation system, which was postponed from the TAHRP, is not developed and implemented
under the HSRP in the near future, there would be no assurances that the quality and efficiency
of the public hospitals would be measured and improved in a sustainable manner.
Key Lessons Learned.
* It is prudent and flexible for the Bank to finance a sectoral reform preparatory project before
launching a sector-wide reform program.
* It is essential to carry out a strong public dissemination and education campaign for the
sectoral reform program to alleviate any possible resistance to it.
* It is practical to start most reform measures with Executive decrees or regulations rather than
legislative actions.
* Decentralization should be accompanied by measures to ensure accountability and equity
among decentralized entities.
* Successful cost-recovery requires incentives for agencies to retain revenues collected.
* Monitoring and evaluation should receive greater attention from the beginning of the reform.
* The Bank should reinforce its advantage to provide policy advice and technical assistance.
* The Bank should accelerate its LA amendment processes.
* The SBD is a useful tool to accelerate project implementation at local level.
* The authorities and responsibilities of a PCU and its location in a sectoral organization is
important for a successful project implementation.



viii
* The Bank should revise its financing and disbursement mechanisms so as to finance
revolving funds in our member countries.
* When the Bank cofinances an investment program based on a geographical division, it should
ensure a national system or common norms and standards.
* The Bank should follow-up an infrastructure investment with a maintenance fund project.
* The Bank should revise its guidelines so that Borrowers may prepare an ICR report before
the loan closing.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Background
1.   In the last two decades, the health sector in Chile underwent dramatic changes in line
with the macroeconomic adjustments. In the mid 1 970s the military government introduced a set
of reforms that radically transformed the Chilean economy. It opened the economy to external
trade, deregulated the domestic markets, and reduced the role of the State. At the beginning of
the 1980s, there was a second round of structural reforms, transforming the allocation of
resources in the social sectors (education, health, housing, and social security), introducing
mechanisms of competition, promoting participation of the private sector, and targeting public
subsidies to lower income groups.
2.    In the health sector during the 1970s, the government placed priorities on the primary
health care and the programs for vulnerable groups, especially mothers and children. In the
1980s, the government, firstly, introduced prepaid private health insurance schemes (ISAPRE) as
an alternative to public health service systems. Secondly, it decentralized the primary health care
responsibilities to municipalities. Thirdly, it retained mainly the sectoral policy and management
and delegated the financing of the public health insurance system to the newly created National
Health Fund (FONASA) and the health service provision to the newly established 27 semi-
autonomous regional health services (HSA).  The public hospitals were to be gradually
privatized.
3.    By 1990, Chile achieved significant advances in the health sector, particularly in terms of
health indicators. Average life expectancy was among the highest, and infant, child and maternal
mortality rates among the lowest in the developing world. Chile moved from the first to the
second stage of the epidemiological transition. Rapid expansion of access to primary care played
a key role in this transition, effecting major improvements in maternal and child health
outcomes. Adult health problems, chronic diseases, and non-child infectious diseases represent
an increasing share of health care demand. And the third stage of epidemiological transition was
already evident in the increasing prevalence of environment-related illnesses and social
pathologies.
4.    However, the health sector had problems with the quality and efficiency of services at all
levels of the system--primary, secondary, and tertiary care. The most critical problems were the
lack of complementarity between the different levels of care and low internal efficiency in
service delivery, particularly within the public hospital network. These problems were caused
partly by the epidemiological transition and partly by the governmeht policy. In the 1970s, the
priority attached to the rapid expansion of primary heath care neglected the public hospital
network, which provides secondary care through their outpatient departments as well as tertiary
care. New construction and equipping of hospitals, as well as modernization and maintenance of
existing public hospitals, which serve mainly the poorer segments of the population, were
virtually abandoned. The situation was particularly serious in the Metropolitan Santiago (MS)
area, where 40% of the Chilean population are concentrated, because other areas or levels of



2
health facilities were assisted with external financing, especially by the Interamerican
Development Bank, which provided consecutive loans to a National Fund for Regional
Development for rural and primary health services. The public hospitals with a relatively high
level of technologies, which account for 70% of the total public hospital beds in the area, are on
average more than 60 years old, have become deteriorated physically and technologically over
time due to the lack of adequate maintenance and modernization. In the 1980s, public health
expenditures declined sharply as a result of the government policies favoring the private sector
and the economic crisis in the early part of the decade. Other problems causing inefficiency were
distortions in the pricing and the pattern of utilization of health services, resulting from the
existing mode of health services financing; limitations in the institutional capacity of the MOH,
its autonomous agencies, and numerous municipalities; and harmonization of services and
financing between the public and private sectors.
5.    With the advent of a civilian government (President Aylwin) in early 1990, the public
sector started to make efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of key social sector programs
as a means to assure economic growth with equity. A high priority on the new government
agenda was to improve the quality and efficiency of health services by attacking the identified
issues and problems within the existing fiscal constraints. The government was to prepare and
launch a comprehensive health sector reform program. For this purpose, the government asked
for the World Bank (WB) assistance, and the Bank responded by providing an advance of the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$0.7 million in October 1990 for the preparation of the
Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP). However, the preparation activities needed additional
financing and were delayed because the preparation team needed a longer "learning period" to
acquaint themselves with Bank procedures, and a national consensus was still needed to be
reached on some aspects of the reform program on the basis of more studies to be made.
Moreover, the MOH was in dire need of emergency assistance to respond to the increasing public
pressure to rehabilitate/upgrade the basic support services and facilities of several overcrowded
public hospitals in MS. Therefore, in February 1991, the Government and the Bank agreed to
advance Bank's assistance through a Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Fund (TAHRF)
while the preparation of the HSRP proceeded.
B. Project Objectives
6.    The project had two objectives: One, to develop and launch a sector-wide critical policy,
institutional, and operational reforms (Sectoral Reform Preparation); and the other, to improve
the quality and efficiency of public hospital services in the Metropolitan Santiago (MS) area
through rehabilitation of physical facilities (Hospital Rehabilitation).
7.    The Sectoral Reform Preparation objective was to be achieved by supporting various
studies, pilot testing and initiation of some reform measures. Most studies consisted of two
phases: first, to diagnose the problems and issues in each of the above areas and recommend
alternative solutions; and second, to prepare a design of implementation mechanisms of the
chosen alternative. The first phase, which started a year before the Board presentation with a
funding by the PPF, was to be completed by September-December 1991, and the second phase,
together with the pilot test and initiation of reform measures, by the specified time thereafter



3
(Action Plan: Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement). Although this component accounts for less
than 20% of total project costs, there was no doubt that this was the centerpiece of the project.
8.    The Hospital Rehabilitation  objective was to be achieved by rehabilitating,
reconstructing, and upgrading of public hospitals in MS. Assistance to these hospitals was to be
allocated through a demand-driven mechanism, i.e., hospitals, assisted by their HSAs, had to
identify and prepare rehabilitation subprojects in accordance with a set of criteria, and sought
central government approval for financing in competition with all other eligible hospitals. In
fact, the decentralized mode of implementation of this component was in itself a separate
objective of the project to promote decentralization of HSAs. The Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) was only to review and approve the subproject proposals on behalf of the MOH and in
collaboration with the Ministries of Development Planning and Finance, and monitor
implementation process periodically. The PCU was responsible for execution of other project
components, but it was required to transfer these functions to other parts of the MOH by the Mid-
Term Review (MTR).
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
9.    The project was completed in six years, instead of four years estimated at appraisal.
Total project costs increased by 15% from US$45.3 million to US$52.2 million. Therefore, the
Bank loan of US$27.0 million, which was fully disbursed, accounted for 52% of the actual
project costs, compared with the appraisal estimate of 70%. About half the cost overrun was in
the hospital rehabilitation component by about US$4 million (11%) from US$37 million
appraisal estimates to US$40.9 million. But in relative terms greater cost increases incurred in
the sectoral reform preparation component, a 109% increase from US$3.4 million to US$7.1
million. About 78% of the actual costs were spent on the hospital rehabilitation component,
compared with 81% expected at appraisal.
10.   Despite the two-year delay, the project was implemented efficiently and satisfactorily. In
a decentralized manner, HSAs met the urgent and basic rehabilitation needs through repairs and
replacements of facilities and procurement of medical equipment for all major 17 public
hospitals in MS. The five areas of policy, institutional, and operational studies were also mostly
carried out in time. The PCU, too, transferred its executing functions to various line departments
of the MOH in time.
11.   The extent of the achievement of the project objectives is described in this chapter under
two major objectives--Sectoral Reform Preparation and Hospital Rehabilitation-- and the manner
of the achievement in the next chapter.
1.    Sectoral Reform Preparation
12.   This objective was achieved substantially through the five thematic studies and Pilot
Tests/Start-up Operations. The five studies cover: (a) Policy Framework; (b) Health Facilities
Needs; (c) Institutional Reform; (d) Special Programs; and (e) Monitoring and Evaluation
Systems. The Pilot Tests/Start-Up Operations included: (a) Information Systems; (b) Training



4
and Workshops; and (c) Other Pilot Tests. Except for a few, all these studies and operations
were completed satisfactorily and made far reaching contributions to the preparation and
implementation of the health sector reform program.
(a) Policy Framework Studies.
13.   This category of studies cover: (i) macroeconomic setting of the health sector; (ii)
sectoral policy setting; and (iii) reorientation of the health delivery system.
14.   (i) The Macroeconomic Setting Study tested out the sustainability of the proposed
investments on the basis of the macroeconomic projections. It analyzed the different scenarios of
the incremental recurrent expenditures to be engendered by the programmed investments in the
health sector during 1990-94, taking into account the possible financial savings to be generated
by the reform measures. The studies used rather conservative assumptions about the future
macroeconomic performance than the economy and the public sector actually underwent;
therefore, the financial sustainability of the investment and recurrent expenditures of the reform
programs was secured.
15.   (ii) The Sectoral Policy Setting Study resulted in a sectoral policy letter of September
1992, which reflected the Government's commitment to implement the reform measures
recommended by the various technical studies and the emerging national consensus on the
direction of the sectoral reform. On the basis of this policy letter, the HSRP was negotiated and
approved by the Bank in late 1992. The two guiding principles of the reform were the public-
private mixed and complementary health system, and the decentralization of the public system to
attain a higher level of participation and efficiency. Currently, the central MOH retains the
policy formulation, norm setting, and regulatory role; the financial and insurance roles have been
delegated to the FONASA; and the executing role to the HSAs and other semi-autonomous
decentralized agencies.
16.   (iii) The Health Care Delivery Modality Study was completed even before the signing of
this project (Feb.1991), and its recommendations, approved by the Government in July 1991,
served as the framework for reorienting the operational policies of the public health sector and
the infrastructure investment component of the HSRP. The recommendations centered on the
redefinition of the roles of the health establishments at different levels of care in response to the
geodemographic changes and emerging epidemiological profiles. Specifically, the major thrust
was to increase the capacity to prevent and resolve health problems at the lower levels of care
and thus bring the health services as close as possible to the beneficiary population. Since Chile
had made advances in the development of primary care, the major focus of investment in the
future was in ambulatory care for outpatients at secondary (Health Referral Center: CRS) and
tertiary levels (Diagnostic and Therapeutic Center: CDT), either as part of large hospitals or as an
independent health establishment.
(b) Health Facilities Needs Studies.



5
17.   The Study analyzed the current network for provision of health services in MS,
Antofagasta, and Llanchipal areas and identified the gaps in services and alternatives to establish
the most adequate referral network, taking into account the recommendations of the Health Care
Delivery Modality Study. The Study also elaborated on the architectural design and engineering
details of six health facilities in MS, although the original plan was to cover four establishments
in MS, and one each in two remaining areas. The Study provided the technical basis for the
investment component of the HSRP, i.e. rehabilitation and construction of hospitals (4
construction and 8 rehabilitation), CRSs (5 construction), and CDTs (5 construction) in three
project areas. All these facilities were intended to strengthen the outpatient care capacity.
18.  In the course of implementing the infrastructure component of the HSRP, civil works
were delayed in general and some designs and plans were often modified resulting in delays and
cost increases. This was attributed, among others, to the defects in the original designs and
plans, some of which were prepared under this Study of the TAHRP. They were developed
without sufficient consultation with the prospective users at local levels, and the MOH norms
and standards for different specialties. However, those facilities whose designs and plans were
prepared under the TAHRP proceeded more efficiently.
(c) Institutional Reform Studies.
19.   This category of studies covered: (i) Health Financing; (ii) MOH Strengthening; (iii) the
Central Procurement Agencies (CENABAS); (iv) the Public Health Institute (ISP); and (v) the
National Food Supplementation Program (PNAC).
20.  (i) The Health Financing Studies, which had a far reaching effect on the health sector
reform, were carried out in several stages. The first stage study, which was concluded in July
1991 focused on the intrasectoral resource allocation and cost recovery systems including costs,
and price structure and copayment issues. On the basis of these studies, the Government decided
in August 1991 to adopt two mechanisms for planning and allocating resources to HSAs and
municipalities. HSAs would be receiving transfer of resources in advance on the basis of a
Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) payment system (PAD), which replaces the conventional fee-
for-service payment system for secondary and tertiary care; and municipalities would receive
transfers on the basis of a fixed amount (capitation) for persons enrolled at municipal health
facilities, which replaces the transfer mechanism based on the fee-for-service payment system for
primary care services.
21.    The implementation of the mechanisms, however, has suffered a number of set backs.
The DRG system is now working in only 21 of 29 HSAs. Also, within HSAs, resource
allocations to hospitals and other health establishments have not yet employed the DRG system,
and therefore its impact on operational efficiency at the establishment level is limited (e.g.,
shorter stay in hospitals and shorter waiting lists). The major factor responsible for these
setbacks was delays in the management information system, which provides a technological
basis for applying the DRG mechanism and linking it with the performance contract system,
another essential element of the sectoral reform. Another responsible factor was the limited
applicability of the mechanism, which accounts for mainly hospital expenses, but excludes many



6
other resource transfers.  Until the DGR mechanism covers most hospital activities, the
prospective fee payment schedule--the adjusted fee-for-service mechanism (PPP-Pago
Prospectivo de Prestaciones)--is applied in parallel. Currently, resource allocations based on the
PAD-PPP account for only half the total public health sector operational budgets. Still another
technical problem is that the DRG-based allocations are substantially higher than allocations
based on the traditional fee-for-service payments because the current fees do not reflect the actual
costs. A more serious problem has been resistance to the capitation system, mainly because the
amount is smaller than the traditional system, and beneficiary enrollment is required.
22.   The another important stage of the Health Financing Study was strengthening the roles
and activities of the National Health Service Fund (FONASA). This study was added by
amending the Loan Agreement (LA) in January 1995. The study led FONASA, a decentralized
agency, to transform itself from a passive disbursement window, paying for services rendered by
HSAs and municipalities, to a proactive manager of the public health care insurance system. It
now plays a major role in improving efficiency in resource generation, allocation and utilization,
and purchases the services from the service providers. FONASA has been negotiating the budget
with the HSAs/municipalities, buying the services from the public and private providers,
developing guaranteed public health benefit plans, and regulating the use of services by its
beneficiaries. The generation of the resources was done mainly by (i) reducing subsidies to
ISAPRE members; (ii) introducing cost-recovery measures; (iii) improving the insurance
premium collection system; and (iv) promoting sales of services to the private sector (e.g., up to
10% of bed capacity). For these actions, FONASA modernized its administrative and financial
control systems and developed an information system. As a result, it improved its identification
of non-members (i.e., ISAPRE members or some 32% of total national beneficiaries in 1996) and
charged them for public services rendered, making prices to reflect both real costs and market
prices, adjusted copayments downward to reduce evasion, ensured mandatory payroll deductions,
and secured cost recovery from the accident insurance systems and the ISAPRE. However, sales
of services to the private sector can grow further if the disincentives are removed, i.e., if HSAs
can retain part or all of their sales revenue as additional resources. Recently, FONASA has
developed a set of marketing policies and tools to attract a greater number of beneficiaries to the
public health insurance system and to satisfy its customers. These policies and pilot actions have
been further supported under the HSRP through an amendment of the LA in April 1997.
23.   (ii) The Ministry of Health Strengthening Study  aimed to identify the structural,
functional, managerial and human resources deficiencies both at central and regional levels. It
also aimed to develop detailed recommendations on training plans, incentive systems for sector
personnel, management information systems, and the organizational structure and administrative
procedures for carrying out MOH's new roles (such as setting policies, norms, and standards;
monitoring and evaluating the performance of the executing agencies in terms of quality and
efficiency; and promoting decentralization and accountability). One of the outcomes of the study
was the recommendation to transfer some of the functions being carried out by the PCU to the
line departments of the MOH. Still, another element of the study was to analyze the feasibility of
three alternative models for managing public hospitals to increase their resource use efficiency.



7
24.   The major parts of the study were to be completed by early 1992 under the TAHRP, but
in fact were postponed to the HSRP, due to the vested interests of MOH and the resistance by
employees' unions. Only the two additional parts of the study introduced during the January
1992 LA amendment were implemented under the TAHRP. They were alternative models for
CRSs and CDTs operations; and setting priorities of the public health interventions. As a result
of these studies, it was decided that CRSs and CDTs would operate under HSAs until the law
(Ley Medica) is modified for more flexibility and autonomy. Also, 18 priority public health
interventions were identified on the basis of a preliminary analysis of the burden of diseases and
the public perception. These priorities, together with the DRG and capitation mechanisms,
served as a basis for distributing the public health resources to executing agencies. However, a
more detailed quantitative analysis of the cost-effectiveness of priorities began in December
1997 and is scheduled for completion in 1998 under the HSRP.
25.   The structure of the MOH was changed twice (in 1994 and 1997) to promote
decentralization and accountability, and to transfer some functions of the PCU to line
departments and decentralized agencies. In 1994, the MOH was reorganized into three major
departments: Planning and Evaluation, Normative Functions, and Management Support
Functions. Direct control of health care services by the central level was completely transferred
to HSAs, and all financial and administrative functions were transferred to FONASA. In 1997,
the MOH was again reorganized into the Health Establishment Network Support, Human Health
Services, Environmental Health Services, and Human Resources Departments. In the course of
this reorganization, especially after the 1997 reorganization, the PCU for both TAHRP and
HSRP became virtually an accounting unit of the rehabilitation investment, and lost the function
of coordinating and monitoring preparation of health sector reform, mainly because it belongs to
the Investment Division, which reports to a Department Director responsible for supporting all
health establishment networks. A separate unit was created for conducting and monitoring all
reform-related studies and institutional changes, reporting directly to the Minister. Therefore, the
PCU no longer was able to effectively carry out its function of liaison between the MOH and the
World Bank (WB) regarding the preparation and progress of the health sector reform.
26.   The study on the alternative models for managing public hospitals was not carried out
based on an understanding reached with the Bank that this study was no longer urgent as the
MOH would focus on the decentralization of HSAs as a priority. However, it was agreed that the
study would be carried out under the HSRP in 1998 to deepen the decentralization process within
HSAs.
27.   Although human resources studies were initiated under the TAHRP, major parts of the
intended studies were carried out and their recommendations followed up successfully under the
HSRP only lately. They included, among others, launching the Performance Contract; the
Management Training Program; and the Human Resources Management Strategy.
28.   The Performance Contract (PC) was designed to link resource allocation with the
productivity and outputs of HSAs and other decentralized agencies, thus promoting
decentralization and accountability. The PC contains agreements reached among the MOH,
FONASA, and HSAs (municipalities and other decentralized agencies) regarding the policies to



8
be followed, the type and volume of services to be provided, and health outcomes to be reached.
As such, it specifies technical as well as administrative/financial benchmarks and indicators. The
MOH successfully piloted it with five HSAs in 1994, applied it to all 27 HSAs in 1995,
evaluated its experience in 1997, and expanded its application to health establishments in all
HSA starting in 1998.
29.   The Management Training Program was instituted to address managerial deficiencies that
plagued the operations and development of the MOH and its executing agencies. It was launched
in 1993, and by the end of 1995 had financed almost 1,000 training activities. About half the
activities focused on the improvement of clinical/technical proficiency and the other half on
management skills. About half the management skills improvement activities were targeted on
middle managers' human resources and program management skills, and the other half on senior
managers' administrative and financial management skills. The preliminary results of the
evaluation were significantly positive. Although no actual changes in knowledge and behavior
of the health sector staff or in the health outcomes are evident, staff placed a high priority on the
program and found the program relevant, partly because the subprojects were prepared by the
potential beneficiaries in accordance with prescribed criteria, and are financed in competition
with all other HSA proposals.
30.   The Human Resources Management Strategy was elaborated to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of service delivery by strengthening staffing of health facilities and their job
satisfaction. The strategy was developed on the basis of the assessment of the unbalanced staff
mix (e.g., greater number of physicians than nurses), high staff turnover, absenteeism,
dissatisfaction, deteriorated skills, and low productivity. The strategy contains a set of flexible
criteria for allocating staff resources to each health establishment of HSAs, a new methodology
for accreditation, competitive career development, and introduction of incentives for outstanding
individual staff as well as team performance. The strategy has resulted in several major
legislative actions, provoking several major strikes by trade unions. One law is for municipal
medical personnel (Law 19.378 in 1995); another one for non-medical staff that became effective
in March 1997 (Law 18.834); and still another for the medical staff at secondary and tertiary
levels, which is still under debate in the National Congress (draft law: Ley Medica 15.076).
31.   (iii) The Central Procurement Agency (CENABAS) Study aims to improve the internal
efficiency of the CENABAS by analyzing the current procedures used by HSAs, hospitals, health
centers, and the PNAC to procure pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, equipment, and food
supplements, and designing new systems including legal, regulatory, organizational and
procedural changes.
32.   The identification of the issues and recommendations for action were formulated during
project preparation, and the detailed design for action including --organizational changes, staff
reassignment and redundancy, transport contract revision, strategic inventory control, and storage
rationalization-- was completed in 1995. Since then, the new system has gradually replaced the
old system and is expected to be fully implemented by the end of 1998.



9
33.   The new system essentially changed the role of CENABAS from a "wholesaler" to
"procurement agent" for clients. It consolidates procurement programs of various clients for
economies of scale, and procures goods through an electronic auction system (compared to the
traditional competitive bidding or shopping). CENABAS has strengthened its customer services
by linking clients with computer networks (10 hospitals in 1997), creating regional offices
staffed with "commercial executives," and preparing procurement manuals and merchandise
information documents.
34.   Although CENABAS plans to conduct an in-depth evaluation study by the end of 1998,
the initial indication of the new system's impact is impressive and is worthy of being
disseminated widely to other countries as "best practice." CENABAS reduced its response time
by half, procurement activities increased by more than 30% over the last two years, and the
average unit purchasing price decreased by 10.6% per annum in the last three years.
Consequently, net savings for customers was about 8% per year. Moreover, CENABAS saved
its labor, storage, and transport costs, reducing its overhead costs by 10% per annum three years
in row. However, CENABAS needs to increase its efforts to implement the new system and earn
the trust of potential customers because the electronic linkage with hospitals was piloted with
only 10 of a total of about 200 public hospitals (let alone the same number of private hospitals);
its purchasing activities accounted for only 30% of the total sectoral purchase, and the new
system accounted for only 42% of its total purchasing activities. The information system
remains a serious bottleneck in these efforts.
35.  (iv) The Public Health Institute (ISP) Study aimed at improving its internal efficiency by
analyzing the constraints affecting ISP's normative, technical, and regulatory roles with respect
to quality of drugs, supplementary food products, and laboratories, and by designing action plans
to implement the recommendations. The diagnostic analysis was completed before the project
was approved. However, preparation of an action plan and its implementation have been partly
delayed due to lack of consensus about what course of action to take. The series of studies
recommended that ISP strengthen its quality control functions by upgrading its laboratory
equipment and information systems, and reviewing and improving its pricing policies,
procurement practices, and inventory management. The studies also recommended delegating
the production of biological products (e.g., vaccines) to third parties to avoid conflict of interest
with its quality-control functions. The ISP slowly strengthened its normative and regulatory
functions, but has been strongly resisting delegating production functions, and reviewing and
improving its pricing policies.
36.  (v) The National Food Supplementation Program (PNAC) Study also aimed to improve
efficiency of PNAC's operations by evaluating cost-effectiveness of its program and designing
action plans to carry out recommendations. The diagnostic study was carried out as planned, as
were most recommendations, except for narrowing the program's targeting.   The
recommendations carried out to date include improvement of the nutritional value of program
products, procurement procedures, administrative procedures and organizational structures. The
politically controversial recommendation is that, to ensure a higher level of cost-effectiveness,
program operations should focus on the groups that lack resources and run high risks, such as



10
children of lower socio-economic group, especially below four years of age (versus below 7
years in the past) and the old-aged over 70 years.
(d) Special Programs Studies
37.   The project financed the design of the pilot phase of two specific programs that would
address problems in environmental health and women's health.
38.  (i) The Environmental Health Study aimed to elaborate incentives and mechanisms to
stimulate strong participation of the private sector in taking preventive environmental measures.
The study helped design the Pilot Community Education Program for Environmental Prevention,
Management and Control. The pilot program was successfully launched in five communities in
MS under the HSRP. The MOH replicated the program in other areas and created an
Environmental Health Department in its organizational structure in 1997.
39.  (ii) The Women's Health Study aimed to design actions to diminish mortality from
cervical cancer. The study recommended increases in- screening equipment and staff at the
primary care facilities in all HSAs and laboratory and diagnostic equipment capacity be increased
at secondary and tertiary levels. The pilot implementation of the recommendations was financed
under the HSRP.
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation Studies
40.   The Study aimed to' develop methods for monitoring the implementation of the various
components of the proposed HSRP, as well as evaluating the costs and benefits or impact of the
HSRP investments. Moreover, the indicators developed under the study should be used not only
for HSRP, but also for assessing the health services rendered by the 17 rehabilitated hospitals
under the TAHRP. Despite the repeated urges by the Bank supervision missions, however, the
study has not been initiated yet, and only now it is about to be carried out under HSRP. It is
regrettable that no action has been taken in this area yet --even after all infrastructure investment
has been completed. The need to initiate such study is more intensified, because recent opinion
surveys conducted among TAHRP project beneficiaries indicate that clients do not notice any
perceivable improvement in the health services rendered by public health hospitals. Such user
opinions will not be conducive to an efficient implementation of the health sector reform
program under HSRP. The Government may want to accelerate the monitoring and evaluation
system under the HSRP, identify causes of lack of improvement in the public health services, and
take measures to enhance quality. Therefore, it was agreed during the ICR mission that the PCU
would organize a study to evaluate the outcome (or impact) of the rehabilitation of the hospital
facilities in terms of service efficiency and quality. This study would be based on a structured
sample, (e.g., one hospital in each of the six HSAs), and would be completed by December 1998
(Appendix A).
(f) Information System Operation



I1
41.   Based on the information system developed under the MOH Strengthening Study, the
project aimed to install an information network within the different departments in the MOH and
between the MOH and HSAs. Likewise, a pilot information network was envisioned to be
established in one hospital ambulatory care center and 10 urban health care centers to facilitate
referral, registration, and patient follow-up. Implementation of this operation was seriously
delayed due mostly to the lack of a uniform national system, weak institutional and technical
capacity of the HSAs and health establishments, and limited supplier market, especially the
software market. During the preparation of HSRP, the government decided to use mainly local
and bilateral assistance funds supplemented by the WB loan fund for the implementation of this
component under the TAHRP. The Government also decided to implement this component in a
decentralized manner. Therefore, groups of HSAs were supported by different aid agencies (e.g.,
IDB and WB). This compartmentalization of financing and implementation strategy resulted in
different norms, languages, programs, formats, as well as timing of procurement and types of
hardware, and had adverse effects on the implementation of all other components of the reform
program, such as new systems for budget allocation and uses, performance contracts, personnel
management strategies, procurement, control and regulation, and monitoring of the service
quality and efficiency in major health service establishments.- When external aid agencies agree
to divide financing of a project on a geographical basis, they should require establishment of a
uniform national system and common norms and standards as a prerequisite for financing. Also,
the implementation of this component could have been accelerated if the MOH had invested
early in the technical know-how of human resources at the local level by providing technical
assistance. After disparate HSAs and hospitals ran several pilot information operations with
different components of the reform program under the TAHRP, a uniform system was only
recently ensured, and about 24 HSAs are participating in the procurement of hardware and
software for only the basic, common system under the HSRP.
(g) Training/Workshop Operations
42.    The project aimed to finance information dissemination workshops to give a broader
exposure to the reforms to be adopted. The project was also to finance the first phase training of
managers and staff to improve management and financial skills that would help project
implementation. However, only one workshop was organized at the beginning to launch the
project implementation, and, like other project components related to human resources
management and development strategies, training activities were postponed to be financed by the
HSRP, partly due to the delay in the institutional strengthening studies and partly due to the lack
of the recognition of the importance of training/dissemination in the reform process. Timely
training activities and dissemination workshops could have got many stakeholders of the reform
program on board early in the project implementation and could have alleviated strong
oppositions and resistance movements among interest groups, especially when some legislative
actions on the reform program were proposed.
(h) Pilot Implementation Program
43.   This program aimed to pilot test some of the reform program as they were developed and
adopted by the Government to draw lessons or refine the design before they are mainstreamed.



12
Therefore, the project had a built-in flexibility to allocate the loan fund to detailed operations to
be defined by the Government and approved by the Bank in the course of project
implementation. (The basic idea was the same as the new lending instrument recently adopted
by the Bank, Learning and Innovation Loans: LIL). The project financed several pilot operations
and successfully tested them before mainstreaming. The most notable pilot-tested operations
were the information system and the new health financing mechanisms. However, if the
Government had used this innovative design of the Bank lending instrument earlier and more
extensively, it would have avoided the delays and errors experienced in the implementation of
the both TAHRP and HSRP components --especially the human resources strategies,
management and staff training, performance contract, special programs, and infrastructure
investments (More than half the subprojects implemented by the MTR under the HSRP had
architectural design or engineering plan problems.)
2.    Hospital Rehabilitation
44.   This project objective has been fully attained with a two-year extension of the completion
date. All 17 hospitals at levels 1 and 2 located in MS benefited from the loan fund to finance the
188 rehabilitation subprojects in seven competitive phases. Most rehabilitation subprojects were
for civil works (45%) and equipment (55%) for therapeutic service units (e.g., emergency and
anesthesia), followed by basic service units (e.g., elevators, electricity, rest rooms, and water)
and clinical service units (e.g., gynecology and obstetrics, pediatrics and psychiatric services).
Although the approval of the subprojects took a long time (often more than one year compared
with appraisal estimate of 30 days), the subprojects execution did not experience any time and
cost overruns.
45.   Many hospital managers feel that, although the most urgent rehabilitation needs were met
through the project, they still have an urgent need for substantial rehabilitation expenditures, let
alone modernization expenditures. For example, some 50% of the total of 750 subprojects
submitted by the hospitals and HSAs were recognized as priority subprojects, but were not
approved due to the shortage of budgets. Consequently, many hospitals indicate that they are not
operating at an optimal level. The estimated costs of subprojects identified as priorities but
rejected based on shortage of budgets were nearly equivalent to the costs of the subprojects
approved.
46.    Currently, hospitals that were rehabilitated cannot meet the increased maintenance
expenditures due to the inadequate maintenance budgets, and in some hospitals, a lack of
maintenance budget at all --although they promised to provide adequate maintenance budget
when they submitted their subprojects to the PCU. The Government may want to create a
maintenance (and modernization) fund to make it available to hospitals and HSAs on a
competitive basis. This fund could be financed by external donors like the WB by a new loan or
a grant by the German aid agency (KfW), which already financed such a fund in the past.
47.   The decentralization objective of the hospital rehabilitation component was satisfactorily
achieved by the active participation of the project hospitals and HSAs in the identification,
preparation, and execution of the subprojects in a competitive manner. Their ownership of the



13
subprojects in itself was effective training for the actual decentralization of resource allocation
and use. In particular, those HSAs that strengthened their Physical Investment Department, in
lieu of depending continually on consultants, reinforced their institutional capacity and also had
spill-over effects to other departments such as Planning. This strengthened institutional capacity
has already had positive effects on the implementation of the HSRP and will have sustainable
effects on future investments.
48.   One important justification for Bank participation in hospital rehabilitation was the
poverty concern since public hospitals serve mainly the poor and those hospitals in poorer areas
were more deteriorated. Therefore, it was implicit that the poorer HSAs would benefit more
from the project. In reality, however, the areas that benefited the most were the richer HSAs. On
a per capita beneficiary basis, the richer areas received twice or three times more investment
funds than the poorer areas. This was caused by the fact that the loan funds were used in a
competitive manner, and those hospitals located in the poorer areas had weaker institutional
capacity; they prepared fewer or lower-quality subprojects, and consequently benefited less --as
frequently happens in a competitive market and during decentralization processes. If there had
been strong technical assistance by the MOH center in favor of those health establishments in the
poorer areas with weaker institutional capacity, the results might have been more equitable.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
1.    Factors Not Subject to Governmental Control
49.   The agreed thresholds and ceilings for Bank's prior review  of subprojects and
procurement proposals were too low, and the approval process delayed project execution. After
jointly reviewing the situation at the MTR in October 1993, all the thresholds and ceilings were
adjusted upward, and a greater latitude was given to the Borrower through a LA amendment.
However, the LA amendment process was too long to rectify the causes of the delayed
implementation. The amendment of the LA was agreed in principle at the MTR, but the
amendment letter was sent to the Borrower for signature only in February 1994.
2.    Factors Subject to Government and Executing Agency Control
50.   Many factors affected achievement of the project objectives, but delays in the
achievement of objectives was mostly affected by shortcomings in executing the allocated
budgets in 1992 and 1995, and the shortage of budget provisions in 1994. The amount of the
shortages was about the same as the total expenditures defrayed during the last two years of
project implementation.  The budgets allocated for the project, especially for hospital
rehabilitation in 1992 and 1995, were adequate in relation to the appraisal estimate. However,
the executed expenditures were only 73% and 80% of the allocated budgets in 1992 and 1995,
respectively.  Despite the strong pipeline of subprojects in 1992, the HSAs experienced
difficulties in getting budget assignments for a specific subproject early in the fiscal year,
tendering, awarding, and contracting the civil works and equipment, receiving transfers from the
central government on time, and using them in a flexible manner. Bank's standard bidding
documents, which were much praised by the HSAs later, were not available at the beginning of



14
the project, and at the same time HSAs were assimilating themselves to the decentralized
implementation process and the Bank's procurement procedures. The same problems recurred in
1995 when the PCU's administrative and financial functions were transferred to the line
departments of the MOH, and different mechanisms for transferring resources to the HSAs were
tried. Intensive training and technical assistance to the decentralized executing agencies by the
Bank and the central government are essential for alleviating start-up delays in project
implementation and should be an integral part of the project preparation and launch program.
51.   An innovative part of this project is that most project components (e.g., rehabilitation,
information system installation, training) was to be carried out by the decentralized executing
agencies (HSAs, CENABAS, ISP, PNAC, etc.) to facilitate the decentralization part of the
reform program; however, they had no previous project implementation experience, and their
institutional capacity was weak. Therefore, the appraisal team expected that the risk would be
reduced substantially through technical assistance provided by the PCU to the HSAs. However,
this mandate was not clearly spelled out and was not backed up by concrete measures. The PCU
neither prepared an adequate program nor had sufficient resources to carry out the required
technical assistance. Moreover, there was no other formal organizational unit in the MOH to
provide technical assistance and on-the-job training to regional or local staff. With the advent of
decentralization, the central government should take concrete measures (e.g., establishment of a
technical assistance unit for on-the-job training, and adequate staffing and intensive training at
the local level) to strengthen the institutional and operational capacity of the decentralized
entities.
52.   Another innovative feature of the project is that execution of the project was done not
only in a decentralized manner, but also in a competitive manner to reflect the real demand of the
executing agencies. However, when the decentralized entities showed an uneven level of
institutional capacity, the benefits accruing from the use of the project fund were also unevenly
distributed among them. The result of this variation would have adverse effects on the poverty
alleviation objective of the project.
53.   Although the appraisal team and the Government took cognizance of the risk of changes
in government policies, and the lack of project implementation experience at the local level, they
did not explicitly acknowledge the risk of opposition by the public and stakeholders to the reform
measures. However, as in many other reforms, this risk turned out to be true in Chile, and
implementation of important project components, such as the MOH strengthening and the health
financing reform, were delayed and postponed to the HSRP. This risk could have been alleviated
if the Borrower had given adequate priority to the measures considered by the appraisal team to
reduce other risks --such as training courses and workshops to disseminate the reform measures
to the health sector managers and staff. Very little attention was given to the implementation of
these project components, and the project encountered serious strikes and opposition by health
sector employees both at central, regional and local levels, especially regarding changes in the
human resources management strategy and the health financing mechanisms. Moreover, the
reform measures focused on the MOH and HSAs levels, and did not explicitly consider their
repercussions to the primary care services at the municipal level. For example, municipal health



15
service workers strongly resisted the adoption and implementation of the capitation mechanism.
They should have been onboard from the beginning of the reform program formulation.
E. Project Sustainability and Future Operations
54.   Recommendations and action plans resulting from the Sectoral Reform Preparation
Studies have been put in place and will be sustained through the implementation of the HSRP.
The scope and pace may be marginally modified, but the basic thrusts of the reform program will
not be affected by future changes of the Government or the pressures of interest groups since the
reform is fundamentally based on an agreement among political parties. In particular, the current
practice of decentralizing MOH functions to the HSAs and FONASA will be formally backed up
by a law currently under discussion at the Congress. Moreover, the financial sustainability of the
reform program will most likely occur since it is based on macroeconomic assumptions more
conservative than the actual performance of the economy showed, and the Government has been
demonstrating its commitment to the project by providing adequate budgets in recent years.
Since 1994, MOH budgets have been increased at about 10% per year in real terms. But the
project objectives would be better sustained if the Government steps up its public dissemination
about the reform program, train sectoral staff (para. 42), and monitors project impact on the
efficiency and quality of public hospital services (para. 40).
55.  It is likely that the institutional capacity strengthened through the implementation of the
project will be sustained in the future, especially in those HSAs that reinforced its Physical
Resources Department in lieu of continually depending on consultants (para 47).
56.   Operations of the public hospital will not improve or remain efficient unless adequate
operational and maintenance funds are provided on a continuing basis. Many rehabilitated
facilities are in need of further improvement and maintenance. Therefore, Government would
need to establish a maintenance culture in the management of public health establishments by
providing adequate budgets for operation and maintenance or establishing a fund for
infrastructure modernization and maintenance (paras. 45 and 46).
F. Bank and Borrower Performance
57.   Bank performance over the whole project cycle was in general outstanding, except
for occasionally slack supervision.
58.   Bank's performance at the identification stage can be summarized as "responsiveness with
ample flexibility." The proposed project was consistent with the government's development
strategies and Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at the time when a civilian government was
taking over the long period of the military government on the platform of "growth with equity."
In response to the new government's priority on the social sectors, the Bank undertook sector
work on social development progress to review the issues and problems in all social sectors in
1990. This study allowed the Government and the Bank to engage in policy dialogue about the
social sectors, especially on the health sector reform program that the Government was
embarking on, and help provide a framework for the identification of the HSRP. The Bank



16
provided preparation assistance with the Project Preparation Facility of US$0.7 million. Further,
the Bank responded positively to the Borrower request that a separate project (TAHRP) be
prepared to accelerate preparation of the sector reform program and finance the urgent
rehabilitation of the public hospitals in MS. It also, with a sense of urgency, helped the
Borrower prepare the project in less than six months. Bank staff's engagement in policy
dialogues through analytical work and cutting-edge expertise was cited by many Borrower
representatives as the main reason why the Borrower had chosen the Bank as the main
interlocutor for the sectoral reform program. At appraisal, other bilateral and multilateral aid
agencies, which had been operating in the Chilean health sector for a decade and half before the
Bank was invited, showed interest in providing assistance within the framework of the health
sector reform program to be formulated with the technical assistance of the Bank specialists.
59.   The project as prepared and appraised was highly innovative and flexible. The TAHRP
constituted a first Bank operation for the health sector in Chile. It also represented the first
sector-wide reform operation in the Latin America Region and one of the few in the Bank,
breaking the Bank's long operational policy that Bank lending should not finance tertiary health
services. The appraisal team was cognizant of the complexity and risks involved in the sectoral
reform program and took adequate safeguard measures. Although the mainstay of the project
was the sector reform preparation, the project also aimed at creating a revolving fund to address
the urgent needs for public hospital rehabilitation to help the new government carry out its
platform of growth with poverty alleviation. Moreover, the fund was designed to be accessed in
a competitive manner by decentralized agencies to facilitate achievement of the decentralization
objective of the sectoral reform program. Further, the project set aside a lump-sum for some
undefined pilot operations to draw lessons before mainstreaming them. This was similar to the
"Learning and Innovation Lending (LIL)" instrument adopted only recently by the Bank as a
formal lending instrument. The project included a tight action plan, in lieu of usual monitoring
indicators, to help the government adopt and implement sectoral reform measures. Many of these
and other innovative features of this project have since then been replicated in other projects both
inside and outside the Region. However, the Bank's procedures for disbursement proved to be
time-consuming and unsuitable for the establishment and operation of a fund for decentralized
operations in our member countries, yet a new disbursement method still has not been developed.
60.   Bank supervision of the project was in general satisfactory but could have been better.
The Bank showed commendable flexibility during implementation as well. The MTR and the
follows-up actions taken by the Bank with respect to the subproject and procurement approval
criteria and procedures were exemplary. The content of the project, especially the sectoral
reform preparatory studies, were flexibly modified within the broad frame of the project
objectives as the studies evolved and new needs were identified. The amount and mix of
supervision efforts were adequate; however, when the project faced difficulty in terms of budgets
and PCU functions, the Bank could have stepped up its efforts rather than taking a business-as-
usual attitude. In fact, the supervision efforts were eroded during this period, and project
implementation slipped further. In particular, the Borrower feels that the Bank's comments on
audit reports were inflexible and inconsistent with little assistance provided to the PCU. In
retrospect, the most serious shortcoming in supervision efforts was failing to enforce two special
covenants. One was to develop a monitoring and evaluation system for the HSRP and apply it to



17
the services of the 17 TAHRP hospitals, which have a reasonably good set of baseline data
collected at appraisal. The other was ensuring an adequate list of pilot investments and
implementing them, especially in the areas of training and workshops to disseminate the reform
measures among stakeholders.
61.   Borrower's performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. The Borrower
made good progress in a short period. The progress appeared so satisfactory that the Bank
appraisal team did not feel it necessary to make another field visit. Instead, it carried out the
appraisal at headquarters when Borrower representatives came to Washington, D.C. for the
presentation of the final project proposal document. The Borrower completed the majority of the
sectoral reform preparatory studies, especially the diagnostic stage of the studies, even before the
project was approved. It also prepared 18 subprojects for the first phase of the hospital
rehabilitation component, as well as operational manuals for the HSAs and the PCU. Borrower's
commitment to the project appeared so strong that it agreed to withdraw at least 30% of the loan
funds earmarked for the rehabilitation component in less than two years and implement the
whole project in four years, compared with an average of six years in the past. As such, the
appraisal team was able to present the project to the Board one month ahead of the schedule.
62.   Although the Borrower delayed satisfying the conditions for effectiveness by one month
in April 1992, the project implementation at the initial stage was impressive, except the
execution of the 1992 budget. By the Mid-Term Review in October 1993, the Borrower
completed most studies except for the detailed design of action plans and a few studies added
through a LA amendment in January 1992. The Borrower provided adequate counterpart funds
for the projects, approved 121 subprojects over four phases (64% of the total subprojects
financed by the loan), and prepared a good report for the MTR. This report included, in addition
to the analysis of subprojects, a staff opinion survey on the hospital rehabilitation impact, a
review of criteria for the subprojects, and a proposal to transfer some of the PCU functions to the
line departments.
63.  In 1994, however, the provision of budget for the project fell far short of the appraisal
estimate, and, in 1995, the execution of the project further adversely affected by an inadequate
budget (only 80%), causing project completion to be delayed. Transfer of the PCU functions for
budgeting and accounting, and splitting of staff between the Infrastructure and the Institutional
Development Divisions created a disruption for MOH's line departments, HSAs, and other
executing agencies. New departments were not familiar with Bank procedures, and a revolving
fund established with each HSA to replace the monthly budget transfer system was tried out but
failed to speed the pace of implementation and disbursement. For this reason, the administrative
and financial functions were transferred back to the PCU. A weakened PCU, however, could no
longer effectively monitor the project costs and the progress in preparing the comprehensive
reform.
64.   Most covenants were complied in a timely manner. Exceptions were the establishment of
the monitoring and evaluation system for the HSRP and its application to the service
performance of the 17 public hospitals under the TAHRP, the quantitative analysis of health
sector priorities, and the study of the alternative management models for public hospitals. In



18
addition, execution of some recomrnendations made on human development strategies, ISP and
PNAC have not yet been implemented.
65.   Despite the numerous changes in the management of the MOH (four ministers) and the
PCU (six general coordinators), project implementation was not seriously affected, partly
because the same political party, bound by the "Concertacion" Agreement with other patties,
ruled both Governments which implemented the project, and PCU's all general coordinators
except one were career professionals promoted from the PCU staff. However, the change of
some ministers did affect the pace and direction of the reform.
G. Assessment of Outcome
66.   The monitoring and evaluation system to be developed under the HSRP (para. 40) ancl the
outcome analysis to be carried out by the PCU, as agreed during the Implementation Completion
Mission (Appendix A), will demonstrate project outcomes with solid data.  However,
preliminary data indicate that the immediate project outputs and/or outcomes are satisfactory.
The sectoral reform preparation component resulted in a successful preparation and
implementation of the HSRP, which has been rated as "satisfactory" by successive supervision
missions. For example, the health care delivery modality study resulted in the construction of 5-
CRS and 5-CDT under the HSRP for ambulatory services. At the time of the ICR mission, 3-
CRS and 1-CDT had already started operation, providing ambulatory services to 305,917 visitors
in 1997, who would have been handled in either hospitals or health centers at the expense of
their efficiency had there not been the TAHRP. In addition, as a result of the health facility needs
assessment study, 4 hospitals were constructed and 8 hospitals were rehabilitated under the
HSRP. As a result of the institutional reform in the CENABAS, time needed for procuremernt of
medical supplies, equipment, and medicines was cut by half, and the average unit purchasing
price was reduced by 10.6% per year during the last three years.
67.   The hospital rehabilitation component was achieved as expected. Despite the heavy
investment in the hospital facilities under the project, public hospital users have not
acknowledged any perceivable improvement in the hospital services yet. Moreover, a comparison
of the operational performance of some project hospitals in the MS and non-project hospitals in
another health areas (Regions III and V) which received no major foreign aids, did not show any
consistently superior performance or improvement in the project hospitals, although the medium-
term trend is in the right direction (Table 11). It may be too early for the reform measures (in
health financing, staff training, and other organizational and institutional changes introduced
under the project) to produce any concrete results yet. Therefore, it is important to establish and
operate the sectoral monitoring and evaluation system envisaged in the project but postponed to
the HSRP.
H. Key Lessons Learned
68.   Health Sector Reform: It is prudent and flexible for the Bank to finance a sectoral
reform preparatory project before launching a sector-wide reform program. It usually involves a
complex set of issues carrying high risks. The preparatory project helped the Borrower to set a



19
stage for public debates leading to a national commitment to the reform, and facilitate reform
program implementation in the follow-up project by pilot-testing several key components of the
reform program earlier. The whole rationale of the LIL has been tested out in this project
positively. The Borrower could have avoided implementation difficulties with infrastructure and
information system components if it had used the pilot-testing mechanism more extensively.
69.   For a sectoral reform program, it is essential to include a strong dissemination and
education component for both the public in general and interest groups in particular to alleviate
any possible resistance to the reform program. Even when a sectoral reform program is based on
a national consensus, it is likely to face opposition during its implementation.  Better
understanding of the reform is likely to reduce opposition and resistance.
70.   It is practical to start most reform measures with Executive Branch decrees and
regulations rather than legislative actions. When reform starts with legislative actions, it is likely
to bog down with political fights and interest group opposition.
71.   Decentralization, which is often the basic element of sectoral reforms, should be
accompanied by measures to ensure accountability and equity among decentralized entities--in
particularly when decentralized operations are financed in a competitive manner. The central
government should address the disparate institutional capacity of decentralized entities,
especially those with weak capacity, by providing strong technical assistance during subproject
preparation or including compensating mechanisms in the resource allocation criteria (paras. 51
and 52). The information technology system ensures central government's monitoring and
regulatory roles and decentralized entity's accountability, but has often started late without a
uniform national norms or standards, and prior training of human resources, which affected
adversely all major components of the reform prog-ram.
72.   Cost-recovery was another important element of the reform program, but its successful
implementation requires adequate incentives. The decentralized entities should be allowed to
retain all or part of the recovered funds without any penalty in the next year budget.
73.   Monitoring and evaluation should receive more attention in the reform program
implementation. This was the major covenant that was not complied with. Currently, there is no
unit in the MOH which coordinates and monitors progress in the reform program
implementation. Beneficiary opinion surveys show that the public does not perceive any
improvement in the public health services, and this perception would have critical effects on the
success of the reform. Corrective measures could have been taken based on a better monitoring
and evaluation system.
74.   Bank's Comparative Advantage. The Bank should maintain and reinforce its capacity
to provide policy and technical advice backed-up by cutting-edge knowledge on the sectoral
reform. This capacity, in addition to the financial assistance, was the major factor which led the
Borrower to ask the Bank to become the main interlocutor for the sectoral reform program
development and implementation although several other donors had operated in the sector
before.



20
75.   The responsibilities and authorities of a PCU and its location in a sectoral institution is
important for a successful project implementation (para. 25).
76.   The loan amendment processes in the Bank were time consuming to adjust the LA to the
changing circumstances and to reflect the lessons learned from the mid-course review of
implementation (para. 49).
77.   The current Bank financing and disbursement mechanisms were unsuitable for the
establishment and operation of a revolving fund to finance decentralized operations in our
member countries. A different mechanism should be devised, as more of our Borrowers will
undertake decentralization reforms.
78.   Standard bidding documents prepared by the Bank served as a useful tool to accelerate
project implementation, especially at the decentralized level in our borrowing countries (para
50). Likewise, the Bank may prepare a guideline for designing and constructing health facilities
for different levels of services and ensure at project preparation stage whether relevant skills are
available at the local level for designing and constructing sophisticated facilities (para. 18).
79.   When the Bank participate together with other aid agencies in a cofinancing of an
investment program, especially a decentralization investment, on the basis of a geographic
division, it is essential to ensure a uniform national system or common standards and norms.
80.   To sustain the future operation of the project institutions and ensure investment
efficiency, the Bank should follow-up infrastructure investments with assistance for establishing
and operating a maintenance fund, so that a government may accord a proper priority to the
maintenance expenditures of sectoral facilities (para. 56).
81.   The current Bank guidelines on the ICR should be revised and that Borrower's ICR
should be submitted to the Bank a few months before the closing date, so that the Borrower
learns from the review of the implementation experience in time, and the Bank ICR mission
would benefit from it. Currently, the Borrower's ICR is due three months from the return of a
Bank ICR mission. However, as the closing date of the LA approaches, the PCU loses its staff
and institutional memories. And it is the Borrower who has more knowledge of the project
implementation and therefore can draw more pertinent lessons than the Bank can do.



21
PART II: GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY1
(Translation from Spanish)
1.    The Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project (TAHRP; Loan 3427-CH),
a preliminary stage of the Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP; Loan 3527-CH, currently in
process of implementation), was designed to establish the necessary conditions for introducing
changes in critical areas, so as to increase efficiency in the health sector and solve urgent
infrastructure and equipment problems in 17 major hospitals in the metropolitan area.
2.    The TAHRP consisted of the following three components:  technical assistance,
investments, and project management. The preparation of specific studies and implementation
proposals for achieving the objectives of the technical assistance component made it possible to
deal with issues relating to four of the five areas initially identified in the project. The fifth
(monitoring of project implementation), has not yet been developed, having been incorporated
into the HSRP in April 1997 through an amendment to the relevant Loan Agreement.
3.    As regards institutional reform, the project's main contribution was the initial impulse it
gave to a separation of functions within the public sector. In particular, the project led to the
design and subsequent implementation of the current model (giving the policy, norm-setting, and
regulatory role to MOH, the financial role to FONASA, and health-delivery functions to the
HSAs).
4.    The investment component, particularly in its use of a "competitive fund" for selecting
rehabilitation subprojects, provided a real opportunity for proposals to be presented in a
controlled, methodical, and on-going context, through the application of eligibility criteria that
properly matched the nature of the needs and made it possible to prioritize them. Given that the
design of the component came within the framework of the investment decentralization policies
that MOH has been promoting since 1990, it was perceived as facilitating a process that helped
greatly toward the decentralization of some of the stages in the life cycle of the investment
subprojects.
5.    The following were the main concrete results of the project:
(a)   As regards human resources, the preparation of structural reforms, the main ones
being the reform of the Medical Law (currently before Congress), and the now-enacted
Experience and Performance Law (applicable to nonmedical staff and professionals).
(b)   As regards health care, the beginning of the process of prioritizing the main health
problems affecting the Chilean population by using disability-adjusted life years as an
indicator, together with criteria and priorities assigned by the beneficiaries of the public
system themselves. In addition, improvements were made in the targeting, the basket,
'The full report, dated February 16, 1998, is placed in Bank's LAC files.



22
and the composition of products in the PNAC (the National Food Supplementation
Program), and strategies were designed for solving the emerging nutritional problems
affecting the Chilean population.
(c)   Implementation of new mechanisms for allocating resources: in the case of
primary care, by per capita payments for those registered in the relevant establishments,
with correcting factors to allow for poverty and residence in rural municipalities. This
has enabled poor and rural areas to increase their participation in total available resources,
and the per capita figure for the poorest municipalities to increase in proportion to
allocations to more affluent districts.  Implementation of new resource allocation
mechanisms for secondary and tertiary care, under the PAD (diagnosis-related payment)
system in 12 health services and the PPP (prospective fee payment schedule) mechanism
in all health services.
(d)   Establishment of specific resource allocation programs, in order to improve
services for FONASA beneficiaries affected by disorders requiring timely intervention:
the "Complex Services Program" (for providing highly complex services), the "Program
for Older Adults" (for providing more timely care for beneficiaries over 65 years of age
suffering from highly prevalent disorders with comparatively low-cost treatments, and the
POA ("Timely Care Program") established in 1997 to ensure that FONASA beneficiaries
have timely access to certain services.
(e)   The beginning of the FONASA decentralization process, and the redesign of its
management information systems to focus on the collection of premiums, the recruitment
of beneficiaries, intermediation between health providers and users, the procurement of
services, and control of the system.
(f)    As regards supplying the system, new procedures were designed and introduced,
so that CENABAST began to act as an intermediary, eliminating from its activities
certain inappropriate risks, such as product planning and distribution.
6.    As regards the hospital rehabilitation component in the TAHRP, its objectives were an
acknowledgment that the action taken in response to the urgent need for reconstruction and
rehabilitation in type 1 and 2 hospitals in the metropolitan region was only the first stage in a
process for "beginning to improve the quality of (health) services" provided for beneficiaries and
users. Because of this, the support provided under the TAHRP was intended only to overcome
the risks to which patients and health personnel were exposed and the shortcomings in health
service provision, which were a direct result of deterioration in infrastructure and equipment. In
11 of the 17 hospitals covered by the project, 40% of subprojects concerned basic services and
Support Sections, and contributed greatly toward reducing hazards and bottlenecks. Most of
these subprojects related to water supply, sewerage, and electric power systems, the latter two
items being the ones given the lowest evaluations in the 1991 overall diagnostic study of project
hospitals.



23
7.    The following are the main factors impacting the project:
(i)    Over-optimistic initial cost estimates, especially in the hospital rehabilitation
component.
(ii)   Limited management capacity in the executing agencies at the initial stages of the
project.
(iii)   Constraints arising from  the procedures for preparing the national budget,
particularly as regards capital investment.
(iv)   The need to ensure coordination while subordinating project activities to the
strategic objectives defined by the sectoral authorities.
(v)   The economic, social, and political variables present in the process of
modernizing a sector (particularly health), because these affect implementation periods
and the achievement of objectives, despite any degree of flexibility that may exist.
8.    The project will be sustainable because its activities and purposes accord with sector
objectives in the institutional development component, and because the technical capacity of the
health services has been strengthened and solutions have been found to the problems of financing
the cost of preventive maintenance of health service equipment, through project financing.
9.    As regards continuation of the process of separating functions, a positive sign coming
from the political authorities is the recent submission to the National Congress of draft
legislation drawing clear distinctions between the health authority function exercised by MOH,
the service-delivery function of the HSAs and their establishments, and the financial function of
FONASA.
10.   The main aspects of Bank performance in this process were its active participation in the
design and implementation stages of the project, and the considerable flexibility it showed over
implementing the recommendations of the studies, when it allowed changes or extensions to be
made to each of the components, without altering their original objectives.
11.   For its part, the Government showed a firm commitment to the rehabilitation of the public
health infrastructure, while meeting countless social and labor-related demands. To this end, it
considerably increased budget allocations to the sector over the 1992-96 period, with a 12.4%
real average variation, and a 43.7% annual average variation in the capital budget over the same
period, based on 1991. In addition, the substantial local contribution to the preparation of studies
and the implementation of recommendations is evidence of the high priority the Government
assigned to these activities.



24
12.   The following are the key lessons learned from project implementation:
(i)    The difficulty of achieving agreement between the auditor and the PCU, because
of the limited dissemination and knowledge of the regulations applicable to their
activities and the consequences resulting from the separation of their functions (i.e.
supervisory agency vis-ea-vis auditing agency).
(ii)   The critical issue of what system is to be used to determine whether expenditures
are eligible for refunding, and what documentation is demanded in support of statements
of expenditure.
(iii)   The need to consider (in light of project objectives) other alternatives for
investment decisions that will provide for making comparisons and assessing the
advantages and disadvantages of the competitive fund.
13.   The following are the main recommendations to be considered in future operations of this
type:
(i)    As regards the Bank's auditing requirements, we believe contact with the relevant
division must be more unimpeded and on-going, and that meetings should be held so that
a consensus can be reached over the scope and content of reports.
(ii)   There were problems of communication and interpretation regarding critical
definitions, caused by the overlapping of what were two different stages in a major, all-
embracing Bank operation (i.e. the TAHRP and the HSRP), and these difficulties
hindered, or prevented, certain operational activities.
(iii)  In future investment operations, especially those largest in scope, the technical
and legal feasibility should be examined of making direct payments to suppliers, since
this procedure could possibly have some impact on the pace of disbursements.
(iv)   Because the present system allows only for refunds of expenditures, the procedure
for repaying the advance from the Special Account should be revised, since it does not
operate efficiently in the final stages of a loan. This became clear in the final quarter of
the TAHRP implementation period, when it was necessary to provide countless
reimbursements for increasingly smaller sums. This is not really practical.



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION
PROJECT
(LOAN 3427-CH)
PART III: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
Table 5:    Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:    Studies included in Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11    Assessment of Project Outcomes



26
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                                                         41
Sector policies                                41
Financial objectives                           4
Institutional development                      41
Physical objectives                            4
Poverty reduction                                               4
Gender issues                                                    4
Other social objectives                                                            4
Environmental objectives                       41
Public sector management                       41
Private sector development                     4
Other (specify)
a' P~~~.jaa~~~hiIi4t                                  LTaUke~~~~~~t     Ui "-Wtt4aM
Sustainability                                 4
Identification                                 41
Preparation assistance                         4
Appraisal                                      4/
Supervision                                                     4
w ."U "'d   .......    . ... .. - ...........
Preparation                                    41
Implementation                                                  4
Covenant compliance                            4
Operation                                                       4
S a~~ f ~ w f ~ i y   .................... ....  .....a   w r
Assessment of Overall Outcome.4
.....~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
L o a n                                                                              ..*.* . .*...........
Hefalth Spector t To assist the Government in enhancing the efficiency and  1992    Closing Date
Refom Prject effectiveness of resource use in the public health system,          06/30/98
7-C     ~as well improving the quality of health services in                Extended by at
selected areas. The project constitutes the second phase          leasteonded byear.
in the Bank's lending assistance in the sector, and it haslesonyar
four principal components. The first is the
decentralization of health service delivery which will
finance reforms in the role of the Ministry of Health
(MOH), health financing systems, procurement, personnel
development and management, and information systems.
The second is facility investments for a new health care 
model which will enhance the integration of health 
services delivery in eight Health Service Areas (HAS).
The third is support for special programs which will
finance  equipment  and  operating  costs  for  the
implementation of the Cervical Cancer Program  and
Environmental Health Education Program. Finally, the
fourth is support for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
to  coordinate and  manage  project implementation,
provide training to the HAS's, and undertake monitoring
evaluation.



28
Table 3: Project Timetable
..rq. ,      _        r         .. .
1. Identification                                       2/91                    2/91
2. Preparation                                         3-5/91                   3-5/91
3. Pre-appraisal                                        6/91                    6-7/91
4. Appraisal*                                           9/91                   9/30/91
5. Negotiations                                         11/91                  11/08/91
6. Board presentation                                   1/92                   12/17/91
7. Signing                                              2/92                   12/18/91
8. Effectiveness                                      3/18/92                 04/14/92
9. Midterm Review                                       06/93                  10/22/93
10. Project Completion                                12/31/95                12/31/97
11. Loan closing                                      06/30/96                12/31/97
* Appraisal discussions took place in Washington.
Project Timetable
7124/98 -
3111/97
1 101285
a.~~~~~~ae
Co
1/31/93
*  9/19/91   ~ ~~~~             .~~.....~Actual
(.  5/7/90
12/23/88
8/11/87
1 2  3 4  5  6 7  8  9 10 11
Dates



29
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
Appraisal Estimate    11.4      21.8      25.5        27.0        -        -
Revised Estimates    4.84       7.96      13.96       22.3        27
(1995)
Actual               5.17       8.29      14.28      18.29      24.31      27
Actual as % of       45.35     38.03      56.00      67.74      90.04   100.00
Appraisal Estimate
Actual as % of       106.82    104.15    102.29      82.02      90.04   100.00
Revised Estimate
Disbursements
30
CO
0 -     l      l      l      l      I
FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Bank Fiscal Year
..Appraisal Estimate   Revised Estimates :. Actual



30
Table 5: Key Monitoring Actions
flmesabk  S~~~~~~................
L. DEVELOPMENT OF                                                                  .. ............................................
POLICY/INSTITUTIONAL
REFORMS
A. Reorientation of the     Approval and adoption by the Government of No later than July  Completed
health care delivery system    the satisfactory recommendations of the  30, 1991     February 1991
Study on the reorientation of the Health Care
System. Reforms would include increased
emphasis on the development of outpatient,
ambulatory care and increasing the capacity
of primary health care facilities to address the
community's health care needs
B. Health Financing         B. 1 Completion of the analysis and     No later than July  Completed March
recommendations for reforming the cost  31, 1991          1992
recovery and financial resource mechanisms
of the health sector.
B.2 Completion of the study on the cost  No later than   Completed June
structure of health services. Completion of    June 30, 1992  1992
the design and implementation mechanisms
of the options chosen from the
recommendations of the above studies
B.3 Start pilot test of the recommendations of  No later than  July 1992
the studies on cost recovery and financial  October 30, 1992
resource mechanisms.
B.4 Adoption by the Government of the
following reforms:
- Increase from 5% to 10% the share of paid
beds to the number of total beds in a public    No later than July  Completed
hospital.                               31, 1991         October 1992.
- Establishment of appropriate mechanisms to
increase the collection of accident insurance   No later than  November 1995
proceeds in the public hospitals.       June 30, 1992
C. MOH Strengthening        C. I Completion of the analysis and proposals  No later than
on the proposed pecuniary and non-pecuniary  March 30, 1992    Completed 1997
incentives to improve the skills, morale and
geographic distribution of health personnel.
C.2 Review by Government and the Bank of  No later than  Completed 1997
the above study's recommendations.      April 30, 1992
C.3 Completion of draft legal or regulatory    No later than  Completed
changes to implement recommendations    June 30, 1992.    December 1997
approved by the MOH.
C.4 Furnish to the Bank a plan of action with  No later than  Completed March
appropriate schedule of the transfer of PCU    June 30, 1992  1994
functions to the relevant MOH agencies,
departments and/or HSA.



31
C.5. Design systems and training programns to  No later than  Completed 1993
improve the normative, monitoring and    June 30, 1992
supervision, and financial management
capacity of the Ministry of Health.__________________
C.6 Design information systems to facilitate    No later than  Completed March
policy decision-making and monitoring of  June 30, 1992     1993
______________________ policy and program   implementation._________
C.7 Start implementation of the information    No later than  Partially done by
system improvement and appropriate MOH    October 15, 1992   1997 and the
organizational and administrative changes.                 reminder being
done under HSRP.
C.8 Furnish to the Bank for its review and  June 15 and    Not done, but
approval the training activities planned to be   December 15  being done under
carried out for the following semester,   each year        HSRP.
D. Health Sector Supply      D. 1 Completion of the analysis and proposals  No later than  Completed in
System                       for an efficient supply system for        March 30, 1992    1994
pharmaceuticals, equipment, and food
supplements, streamline the organization and
operations of the Central Supply facility. _________________
D.2 Review by the Government and the Bank  No later than    Completed in
of the above stuy' recommendatios.        April 30, 1992    1994
D.3 Completion of draft regulations to    No later than     Completed
implement recommendations approved by the  June 30, 1992   between 1994-
Government.                              ________1997
D.4 Start implementation of appropriate   No later than    Completed
system reforms.                           February 15,      between 1994-
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____1993                                           1997
E. Streamlining of the Public  E.1l Design of systems to improve the                     Completed
Health Institute             organizational and operational efficiency of                between 1994-
the institute of public health to enhance                   1997
________________________quality control, especially of drugs.                     _________
E.2 Start implementation of appropriate                     Completed
organizational and operational reforms.                     between 1994-
____________________________                                        ~~~~~~~~1997
F. Improvement of the        F. 1 Elaboration of norms and guidelines to  No later than July  Completed June
regulatory framework for the  increase the transparency of ISAPRES     30, 1991          1991
Operation of ISAPRES and    contracts, financial information, and
increase of transparency of   mechanisms to resolve conflicts with
the private health insurance   beneficiaries.
market.
F.2 Preparation of technical and legal studies   No later than  Completed
to update the ISAPRE Law.                 September 30,    February 1991
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 99 1
F.3 Preparation of draft ISAPRE Law       No later than     Completed
incorporating the changes to be           March 30, 1992    September 1991.
_______________________recommended by the above studies (F.2)
F.4 Elaboration of regulations to reduce the    No later than  Completed
"exclusions: and "expulsion" restrictions in    March 30, 1992    October 1991
the ISAPRE contracts.



32
F.5 Selection of alternatives to finance costs   No later than  Completed March
of health care of the elderly within the  March 30, 1992    1991
ISAPRE system.
G. Modernization of         G. 1 Completion of the studies on the   No later than    Not done. To be
Hospital Organization       alternative organizational models of public    March 30, 1992   prepared under
hospitals.                                               HSRP
G.2 Design of implementing details to carry   No later than  Not done. To be
out the approved recommendations of the  December 15,    prepared under
above studies.                          1992             HSRP
G.3 Start pilot test of appropriate     No later than    Not done. To be
recommendations.                        October 15, 1993  prepared under
HSRP
H. PNAC Evaluation          H. I Completion of the PNAC Evaluation  No later than    Completed July
Study.                                  June 30, 1993    1995
H.2 Design of implementing details to carry   No later than  Completed March
out the approved recommendations of the  March 15, 1994    1996
above study.
H.3 Start implementation of             No later than    Started in July
recommendations.                        September 15,    1996 and to be
1994            continued under
HSRP
1. Specific Programs        1. I Complete design of pilot action programs  No later than  March 1995
for environmental health and women's    April 30, 1992
health.
1.2 Start pilot test of above actions.  No later than    Completed under
September 15,    HSRP December
1992             1996
J. Monitoring and           J. I Complete monitoring and evaluation  No later than   Not done. Being
Evaluation                  study and propose health services indicators   March 30, 1992   done under HSRP
to be discussed with the Bank.
K. Policy Letter            K. 1 Submission to the Bank of a draft policy   No later than July  September 17,
letter incorporating the Government's   31, 1992         1992
commitment to implement appropriate policy
and institutional reforms as recommended by
the above studies.
II. PHYSICAL                A. 1 Analysis of the need for and availability   No later than  Completed
INVESTMENTS IN              of different types of health services in  March 30, 1992.   September 1994
METROPOLITAN                Santiago, Antofagasta and Llanchipa.                      because there was
SANTIAGO,                                                                             some doubt about
ANTOFAGASTA AND                                                                       study result.
LLANCHIPAL
A.2 Determination of investment         No later than    Completed March
requirements to improve health care delivery   March 30, 1992    1994
in Santiago, Antofagasta and Llanchipal.
A.3 Completion of engineering studies for    No later than  Completed 1997,
the first year investments recommended by    August 30, 1992   but study in MOH
the above studies.                                       was not completed
and will be finance
under HSRP.



33
..   .........***
HII. HOSPITAL               A. I Submission to the Bank of periodic  No later than the   Done every year
REHABILITATION              reports on the physical and financial status of  first week of  except last report
SUBPROJECTS IN              the hospital rehabilitation subprojects.  January, April,
METROPOLITAN                                                         July and October
SANTIAGO                                                             each year.
A.2 Submission to the Bank of an annual  No later than    Done every year
progress report and work plan.           December 30      except last report
each year.
A.3 Completion of the first 18 subprojects  No later than  Done December,
approved by the Bank before Loan         December 15,     1992
Effectiveness.                           1992.
A.4 Disbursement of about 30% of Loan    No later than    September 1994
amount allocated to hospital rehabilitation.    June 30, 1993.
A.5 Submission to the Bank of an assessment  No later than  Not done but will
report on the status of health services  June 30, 1993    be done under
indicators for the 17 project hospitals in  and June 30,  HSRP.
Metropolitan Santiago.                   1995.



Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                     Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined             [           Status                    Impactl Comments of study
L Policy Framework Studies                   _____________i;:__
I. Macroeconomic Framework    Present different scenarios of the possible incremental recurrent    Concluded in December 1991.   Its recommendations were used as a framework
Study                          expenditures that would be required by the total programmed                                 for the elaboration of the other preparation
investments in the health sector for 1991-94. In addition, to                              studies for the HSRP.
analyze the sustainability of the proposed new investments for the                          Also, it served as the framework for future
sector; estimate the financial savings that could be generated by                          investment projects in the sector in this decade.
the reform measures currently being analyzed and proposed for                               Although the macroeconomic studies were
implementation under the HSRP; and estimate the budgetary                                   useful, some of the assumptions of these studies
implications of the proposed reforms for the role of FONASA.                                were not always realistic. The actual economic
performance was much more robust than the
assumptions.
2. Sectoral Policy Setting     Elaborate on the health sector objectives guiding the program  Concluded in February 1991.    The study led the government to prepare a
strategies and projects in the health sector.                                               health sector policy paper (9/92), which was
submitted to the Bank.
3. Reorientation of the Health  Analyze the present model of health care delivery in Chile,  Concluded in February 1991.    The study recommended a new model of health
Care Delivery System           focusing on the functions of different health establishments, level                         service delivery, which served as a framework
of technological complexity, capacity to resolve health problems,                          for the investment plan for the HSRP, in
and the referral system from the primary to the tertiary level.                             particular for CRSs and CDTs.
II.  Health  Facilities Studies                                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              -
I. Diagnosis/analysis of service   Analyze the supply and need for services in the Metropolitan  Completed between 1991-1992   These studies were useful for the elaboration of
gaps.                          Santiago, Antofagasta and Llanchipal areas, as well as the                                  other preparation studies for the HSRP and for
functional and physical conditions of the health facilities. The                            future investment projects in the sector. In
study would recommend alternatives to establish the most                                    addition, these studies were vital for the
adequate referral network, taking into account the principles                               preparation of the CDT and CSR Studies
established in the Reorientation of the Health Care System Study.
2. Feasibility & Engineering   The study would elaborate on the architectural design and     Completed in 1995             Although the engineering studies accelerated
Studies                        engineering details (facilities and equipment) of the solutions                             project implementation, they were not done in
chosen to address the service gaps in the three areas.                                      consultation with health professionals of the
hospitals and needed revisions later, which
caused delays in project implementation
IIL. Institutional Reform Studies
1. Health Financing
a) Resource Allocation & Cost    To identify reforms needed in the incentive system, the    Completed between 1990-1991   Government adopted most of the study
recovery                       decentralization of decisions and management of financial                                   recommendations.
resources, and the control functions of the MOH. Part of this
studies will focus on the cost, price structure and copayment
system.



Study                   Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                    Status                  Impact/ Comments of study
b) Detailed Designed of      To carry out a detailed cost of services and quantifying and  Completed between July 1991-  This study led to the development of two
Finances                     designing the details of the options chosen on the above studies    July 1994         mechanisms for the MOH/FONASA to allocate
and test them.                                                                       resources to HSAs and municipalities. HSAs will
be receiving resources on the basis of a
Diagnosis-Related Groups payment system
(PAD-PPP), which replaces the traditional fee-
for-service payment system for secondary and
tertiary care; and municipalities on the basis of a
fixed amount per person (capitation) for primary
care (Family Health Plan) patients enrolled at
local primary care facilities, which replaces the
fee-for-service payment system. About 20 of 29
HSAs and all municipalities are experimenting
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  with  the  systems.
c) Strengthening of FONASA   To design the regulatory framework and corresponding     Completed between March      This study was added in the amendment to the
procedures to strengthen the role of FONASA              1994-December 1997          LA in January 1995. The studies enabled
FONASA to transform itself from a merely
disbursement window to a modem, proactive
public health insurer, defining public health
insurance policies, making resource allocations  n
to HSAs and municipalities on the basis of
performance contracts and overseeing resource
generation and uses.
2. MOHStrengthening
a) Deficiencies of MOH       To identify the structural, functional, managerial and human  Completed in 1990       This study resulted in organizational
resource deficiencies of the central and regional offices of the                     restructuring of the MOH twice (1994 and
Ministry with focus on the incentive structure for health personnel                   1997), absorbing the functions of the PCU, and
and on the requirements for staffing, training, information                          a series of reforms in human resources
systems, organizational restructuring, improved procedures for                       management policies and laws, including
decentralization, and accountability                                                 staffing criteria, performance evaluation,
incentive system, training, information
management systems for both medical and non-
medial staff.
b) Design of Recommendations   To prepare details of the recommendations adopted.     Being implemented under      This studies were originally to be financed
and Action Plan                                                                       HSRP                         under TAHRP, but then they were financed
under HSRP
c) CDT-CRS Studies           To identify efficient alternatives for managing the CDT/CRS  Completed between 1993-1997  The study helped to determine the more efficient
implementation and estimate the costs and effects of the                             alternatives for managing the CDT/CRS as well
CDT/CRS implementation system.                                                       as the necessary legal modifications with the
purpose to accomplish its goals. When this study
identified the impact of the costs, it was possible
to obtain necessary resources from the Ministry
of Finance for its operation.



Study                    Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                      Status            |       mpc lComments of study
d) Health Priorities study    To design a scheme for defining priorities for physical, human,    Completed between February    The study enabled the MOH to identify the
and financial resource allocation in the sector and carry out a cost-  1995-December 1997  main health problems in Chile in terms of the
effective analysis of different interventions.                                          burden of diseases and beneficiary's perception
to establish 18 priority programs, which serve
as a basis for allocating resources and entering
into performance contracts with HSAs and
municipalities.
3. Central Procurement
Agency (CENABAST)
a) Diagnosis                  To focus on the analysis of the intemal efficiency of the Central    Completed between 1992-1993   This studies have contributed to the
Supply Facility, the current procurement procedures being used                          modernization of the Procurement System in
by the HSAs, hospitals, and health centers, the procurement                             the sector and also saved costs for clients.
system of some private health establishments.
b) Design of Recommendations,  To design the implementation phase: necessary legal regulatory  Completed between May 1994-
Action Plan and Quality Control  changes, preparation of organization and operational manuals,  January 1997.
CENABAST                      quantification of investment and operational financing
requirements for the chosen options; and estimation of the cost
savings from the proposed changes in the procurement system.
4. Public Health Institute
(ISP)                         _
a) Diagnosis                  To focus on the analysis of the constraints affecting ISP's  Completed between 1991-1993   These studies contributed to the redefinition of
normative, technical, supervisory and auditing role with respect to                    the ISP's mission. They helped to identify the
quality of drugs and food products for national consumption.                            weakness and strengths of the ISP.
b) Design of Recommendations   To design mechanisms to implement the recommendations    Completed between 1994-1997   The study led ISP to improve its internal
and Action Plan on ISP and    adopted in phase 1. This would include preparation of                                   organization, procedures, equipment and
Occupational Health          legalregulatory instructions, elaboration of training programs for                       efficiency, but separation of production from
Strengthening                 ISP personnel, estimation of the costs and savings of the proposed                      normative regulatory functions was not done.
changes, and preparation of organizational and administrative
manuals.
5. Management Models of
Public Hospitals
a) Feasibility, Recommendations  To increase the resource use efficiency in the public hospital  To be implemented under the    Because of the priorities given to the
and Action Plan               sector, the Government would analyze the feasibility of three  HSRP in 1998.            decentralization to HSAs, these studies were
alternative organizational models of hospitals.                                         delayed.
6. PNAC Evaluation
a) Diagnosis of the National  To evaluate the PNAC and define specific reforms to improve its   Completed between March-  The study provided a series of
Food Supplementation Program   overall efficiency and effectiveness; design the mechanisms to  December 1991.        recommendations that helped to optimize the
(PNAC)                       implement selected reforms; and estimate investment and                                  program operation.
operational cost implications of selected reforms.



Study                    Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                      Status                   Impact/ Comments of study
b) PNAC Action Plan           To define the legal, structural, organizational, and administrative   Completed between June 93-    Some of the above recommendations were
modifications, as well as the resources needed to implement  January 1995               implemented, especially those related to the
selected reforms.                                                                       modifications in the composition of the food
given by the program. The organizational and
administrative structure of the program was
optimized. However, narrowly targeting the
beneficiaries of the program was not carried
out.



38
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$000)
Appraisal Estimate CU S))     Actuallatest estimate (USS)
Local    Foreign              Local    Foregn:
Item                  Costs     Costs      To.a. Cost          C osts-    Tottl
Hospital Rehabilitation             13,654    12,774    26,428   19,737.60  21,115.26  40,852.86
Civil Works                        13,654      0       13,654   11,455.57  10,084.45  21,540.02
Equipment                                    12,220    12,220   8,282.03   11,030.81   19,312.84
Vehicles                             0        554        554       0          0          0
Studies                             3,069      151       3,220    3,324.25   3,766.38   7,090.73
1. Policy Framework Studies          70         0        70       76.81      129.82    206.63
a. Macroeconomic Setting Phase 1   14         0         14      13.88        0        13.88
b. Sectoral Policy Setting         8         0          8       18.15     129.82     147.97
c. Reor. Health Care Model         48         0        48       44.78        0        44.78
2. Health Facilities Study          1,494      48       1,542     55.53     1,011.88   1,067.41
a. Analysis of Hospital Serv. gaps  542      0         542      55.53     384.86     440.39
b. Feasibility & Engineering Studies  952    48        1000       0       627.02     627.02
3. Institutional Reform Studies    1,435      103       1,538    2,975.60   2,622.44   5,598.04
a. Health Financing               209        75        284     1,502.68    459.36    1,962.04
b. MOH Strengthening              457        28        485      363.8      174.39    538.19
c. Health Supply (CENABAST)       259         0        259      34.55      98.24     132.79
d. Public Health Institute (IPS)   167        0        167      116.70     70.22     186.92
e. Organizational Models           49         0        49                    0          0
f. PNAC Evaluation                294         0        294      62.28     230.67     292.95
g. Strengthening of FONASA         0          0         0       895.59    1,589.56   2,485.15
4. Evaluation and Monitoring Design   60        0         60       54.69       0         54.69
5. Design of Specific Programs        10        0         10       161.72     2.24      163.96
Pilot Test/Start Up Operations      1,770      830       2,600    366.62      22.19     388.81
I. Information Systems              250       750       1,000    347.49     22.19      369.68
2.Training/Workshops                120        80        200        0         0          0
3. Pilot Implementation            1,400       0        1,400     19.13       0         19.13
Project Administration              1,759      161       1,920    1,743.40   2,075.58   3,818.98
PCU staff Salaries                 1,526       0        1,526    1,489.15   1,427.21   2,916.36
Equipment/Vehicle                    0        120        120      11.07       0         11.07
Training/Travel                      0         41        41       163.62     80.03     243.65
Other PCU operating costs           233        0         233      79.56     568.34     647.90
Baseline Costs
Physical Contingencies              1,393     679       2,072       -         -          -
Price Contingencies                2,049      983       3,031
Taxes                               5,998       0        5,998       -          -         -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              29,692    15,578    45,270   25,171.97  26,979.41   52,151.38



39
Table 7B: Project Financing
(Actual costs to be completed after Loan closing)
Appraisalate .(US$M)               ActuaAllatest estimte.e (US$4) -
Local:    Foreign                   Lc:        Foreig|
: Sffurce      . - Costs.  .Costs            Total       Costs       Cots         Total
IBRD/IDA                      11.7        15.3         27.0         0          27.0        27.0
Government                    17.6*        0.0         17.6        24.3         0          24.3
Japanese Grant Facility        0.4         0.3         0.7         0.9          0           0.9
TOTAL                       29.7        15.6        45.3         25.2       27.0         52.2
*Government financing includes local taxes and duties (US$6.0)



40
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .rcr    r r~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~......
Preparation to Appraisal                                                  35.9          84,630
Appraisal                                                                    6           15,278
Negotiations through Board Approval                                         8.5         20,895
Supervision                                                               65.9         177,481
Completion                                                                 4.8          17,873
Tott.. : :.                : .i' .....



41
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
-Performance
:Rating1
Days   Specialized.Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  Month!   No. of    in             Skills.       Impl   Devt.:
Year   Persons  Field - Represented - Status   Objs.-    Types of
Problems.
Identification/Research   2/91        2       12          E/HS           n/a      n/a         n/a
Preparation*             3-5/91       -        -             -           n/a      n/a         n/a
Pre-Appraisal             6/91        3        15         E/HS/F         n/a      n/a         n/a
Appraisal**               9/91        -        -             -           n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               1/92       4        12      E/HS(2)/IS/OA      n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               3/92        1        5           HE            n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               6/92        6       12    E/HS(2)/IS/F/OA      n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               3/93        7       12    E/HS(2)/IS/A/P/       1        1          n/a
OA
Supervision               11/93       1        3           HE            n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               4/94        1        5           HE            n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               4/94        1        5            P            n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               5/94        4       10        E/HS(2)/A         1        1          n/a
Supervision               7/94        3        7         HS(2)/IS        n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               10/94       1        5           AU            n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               10/94       1        3            P            n/a      n/a         n/a
Supervision               4/95        3        5        E/HE/OA           S        S          DIS
Supervision               10/95       7       12       E/HS/P/OA/         S        S
AU(2)/A
Supervision               2/96        1       12           HS             S        S          DIS
Supervision               4/97        3        5         HS/P(2)         HS        S
Supervision               6/97       2         8          HS/HE          HS       HS          M
Completion                1/98        3       13         E/HS/PA          S       IHS          M
I  Ratings: I/HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems.
2  A= Architect; AU= Auditor; E= Economist; F= Financial Analyst; HS= Health Specialist; HE= Health
Economist; IS= Information-Specialist; M= Managment Specialist; OA= Operations Analyst; P= Procurement;
PHS= Public Health Specialist; PA= Project Assistant.
3  Types of Problems: A = Accounting; CF = Counterpart funds; DIS= disbursement; IP= Implementation
Progress; L = legal; M = Management; P = Political situation in country; PR = Procurement; T = Technical.
* Preparation of project took place between March and May 1991. A delegation from Chile visited the Bank
from May 6-14, 1991 to discuss preparation documents.
** Appraisal discussions took place in Washington.



42
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
.... LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~&dkrn    Owena,t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Statue  Origi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~......................
3.01 (b)         5          C                                    MOH shall enter into a master   Complied with
agreement with each Project HSA.
3.01(b)          5          C                                    MOH shall enter into an
implementation agreement with    Complied with
each HSA.
3.04(a)          9          C                                   Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation
projects shall be evaluated
according to criteria set forth in the  Complied with
HSA Implementation Manual.
3.04(b)          10         C                                    MOH shall furnish to the Bank for
approval the first 18 subprojects,
and any other eligible sub- projects  Complied with
which cost exceed US$250,000.
3.04(c)          9          C                                   After the Mid-Term Review
modifyi the selection criteria for the
subprojects, as needed to reflect  Complied with
the conclusions of this Review.
3.05            9          C        06/1 5/92                  MOH shall furnish to the Bank for
its approval al the proposed    Complied with
Eligible Pilot Investments.
3.06(a)          9          C        07/30/92                   MOH will review with the Bank
implementation progress of actions  Complied with
set forth in Schedule 5 of the
Agreement.
3.06(b)          9          C        06/30/93       10/18/93     MOH and Bank will carry a       Complied with
T AHRP Mid-Term Review.
4.01I(c)          I         C       every year      6 months    Four moriths after the end of each    Last report received
year the Borrower has to submit to   August, 1997.
the Bank audit reports.          Auditor's opinion is
qualified on
statements, sources
and uses of funds, but
unqualified on
everything else.
Schedule 5-l(a)      5          C                                   Maintain a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) satisfactory to the   Complied with
Bank.
Schedule 5-1(b)      5          C                                   Adopt and apply a PCU Operation   Complied with
Manual to regulate the powers and   March, 1992
responsibilities of the PCU.    Resolution No. 102
Schedule 5-1 (c)     5          C        06/30/92       09/15/92    Furnish to the Bank a plan of
action for the transfer of the PCU
functions to relevant departments    Complied with
or agencies of MOH and/or to the
HSAs.
Schedule 5-2        9          C        07/31/92       09/04/92    Furnish to the Bank ahealth sector   Policy letter dated
policy statement.                September 17, 1992
was incorporated in
the HSRP Staff
Appraisal Report.



43
.s,.h.md..>   > M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
Schedule 5-3(a)      9         C        06/30/93                   Furnish to the Bank
recommendations of study to     Complied with
review health services costs, and to  July 1992
design and implement selected
health financing schemes.
Schedule 5-3(b)     10         C        10/30/92                   Commence pilot test of health
financing schemes.              Complied with
July 1992
Schedule 5-        9          C       03/30/92       01/31/92    Furnish the Bank for its comments
4(a)(i)                                                       its recommendation on the study
referred to in Part A,3(a) of the  Complied with
Project. Training Scheme and
Integrated information system.
Schedule 5-        10         C       07/01/93       12/15/94    Furnish the Bank for its comments
4(a)(ii)                                                       the regulatory or legal changes that
may be required pursuant to such    Complied with
recommendations.
Schedule 5-4(b)     10         C        06/30/92       01/31/92    Furnish the Bank for its comments
the training scheme and
information system to be designed   Complied with
under the study referred to in Part
A.3 (c) and (d) of the Project.
Schedule 5-        9          C       03/30/92       01/31/92    Furnish the Bank for its comments
4(c)(i)                                                       its recommendations on the study
under Part A.4(a)of the Project.  Complied with
Schedule 5-        9          C       09/15/93       12/15/94    Furnish the Bank for its comments
4(c)(ii)                                                       a progress report on the
transformation of the Central   Complied with
Supply Facility into a commercial
intermediary.
Schedule 5-4(d)      9         C        06/30/92                   Furnish the Bank
recommendations for systems to  Complied with
improve the operation of the    1994-1997
Institute of Public Health.
Schedule 5-4(e)      9         C        03/30/92                   Furnish the Bank for its comments
the regulations that may be
required pursuant to the study  Complied with
referred to in Part A.7 of the  1994-1997
Project.
Schedule 5-4(f)      9         C        06/30/93       09/15/95    Furnish the Bank for its comments
the results of the evaluation to be
made under the study referred to in
Part A.8 of the Project, including    Complied with
the reforms required for such
program. (PNAC)
Schedule 5-4(g)     10         CP       03/15/94       03/15/96    Furnish to the Bank for its
comments the details of the     Complied with
implementation of the reforms   partiallly
referred to in (f) above.
Schedule 5-4(h)      6         C        04/30/92                   Furnish to the Bank for its
comments the designs of pilot
action programs for environmental
health to be prepared under the  Complied with
study referred to in Part A.9 of the
Project.



44
=e :=~~~~~~at =a
Schedule 5-4(i)      9         C        03/3 0/92                   Furnish the Bank for its comments   Only terms of
the monitoring and evaluation   reference of the study
methods developed under the study  completed. Reminder
referred to in Part A..0 of the  to be done under
Project.                        HSRP.
Schedule 5-5(a)      10         C        07/01/93      01/15/94     Commence implementation of the
information systems referred to in
Part A.3(d) of the Project and the    Complied with
revised structure of MOH referred
to in Part A.3 (b) of the Project.
Schedule 5-5(b)      10         C        01/15/94       12/15/95    Commence implementation of the
new organizational structure and
the operational norms and       Complied with
regulations referred to in Part
A.4(a) of the Project.
Schedule 5-5(c)      10        CP        01/]5/94       1/15/95     Commence implementation of the
organizational and operational
efficiency of the Borrower's    Complied with
Institute of Public Health referred   partially
to in Part A.5 of the Project.
Schedule 5-6(a)      10        CP        09/15/94      09/15/96     Commence implementation of the
reforms to be implemented in the    Complied with
Borrower's food supplementation    partially.
program referred to in Part A.8 of
the Project.
Schedule 5-6(b)      6          C        09/115/92                  Commence implementation of the
environmental health and women's  Complied with
health programs developed under
Part A.9 of the Project.
Schedule 5-7(a)      10        CP       January 1,                  Furnish the Bank periodic reports
April 1. July I              on the physical and financial status  Only the last report
and October 1                of the Eligible Hospital         not complied with
of each year.                Rehabilitation Subprojects.
Schedule 5-        2          C      November 30                  Furnish the Bank the proposed
7(b)(i)                             each year.                 in vestments to be made under the    Complied with.
P'roject in the following calendar
year.
Schedule 5-        2          C      November 30                  Furnish the Bank a report of the
7(b)(ii)                            each year.                  status of execution of the       Complied with
investments included in that year's
programn.
Schedule 5-7(c)      10         C                                   Furnish the Bank the training
activities planned to be carried out   Complied with
under the project for the following
six months.
Schedule 5-8        2          C       06/30/93       12/31/94     Carry out Eligible Hospital
Rehabilitation sub- projects
representing an amount of       Complied with
disbursements from the Loan     09/94
proceeds under Categories (I ) and
(2) of at least 30%.
.......~~ ..



45
Schedule 5-9       9         NC        06/30/93       12/31/97    Furnish the Bank an assessment of  Not done.
the status of achievement of the  To be done under
health indicators to be developed    HSRP in 1998.
under the study referred to under
Part A.10 in the Project's eligible
hospitals.
Schedule 5-10       9          C        12/15/94                  Furnish to the Bank for its
comments the recommendations of
the study on the modernization of   Complied with
structure and function of the
supply system at the local level
(HSAs and hospitals).
Schedule 5-11       2          C       08/30/94                   Furnish to the Bank for its
comments recommendations of the
study on the recurrent cost     Complied with
implications of health investments.
Schedule 5-12       9          C       09/01/95                   Furnish to the Bank for its
comments the recommendations of  Complied with
the study on strengthening the
occupational health system.
Schedule 5-13       9         CP        12/31/96                  Furnish to the Bank for its
comments an operational manual    Operational Manual
for the CRSs and CDTs, as well as   was presented. CRS
the results of the pilot-test of the    and CDT Construction
application of this Manual in the    delays held up pilot
first CRs and CDT to be completed  test executiona and
in 1995.                        evaluation.
Schedule 5-14       9          C       03/31/96                   Furnish to the Bank for its
comments a report on the actions    Complied with
taken under Part A. 11 of the
Project.
Schedule 5-15       9         CP       03/31/96                   Furnish to the Bank for its      Health priorities study
comments the results of.the cost-   and a qualitative
effectiveness analysis, as well as a   regional analysis of
design for assigning priorities for   cost-effectiveness of
resource allocation in the health    interventions were
sector as required under Part   completed. Detailed
A.3(e) of the Project.          quantitative cost-
effectiveness study
commenced in
December 1997 and
will be completed by
October 1998.
Covenant Types:
I = Account/audits                                        10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries   11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
3.=Flow and utilization of project funds                  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
4.= Counterpart funding                                   13 = Other
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  Covenant Status: C = Covenant complied with
6.= Environmental covenants                               CD = complied with after delay
7 = Involuntary resettlement                              CP = complied with partially
8 = Indigenous people                                     NC = not complied with
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting



Table 11: Assessment of Project Outcomes
A. Project - Hospitals
1) HOSPITAL BARROS LUCO (Servicio de Salud Metropolitano Sur)
Hospital Type 1
1990         1991        1992          1993         1994          1995 L1996.    % 90-96,
Hospital discharged    33,990       34,267        33,242       33,951       33,264       32,108         32,147       -11
Average length of stay    7.4           6.9          6.5          6.9          6.6          6.8            7.1       -4
Major surgeries        14,629        14,023       15,945       16,137        16,550       15,216        16,590       +13
Minor surgeries        16,113        13,906       21,776       20,456       36,349       32,933         24,553       +52
Imageonology Exams     58,331       68,451        66,922       67,415       67,443       71,755         73,507       +26
Laboratory exams      988,765     1,090,503    1,028,011     1,047,541    1,009,989    1,027,651     1,031,115       +4
Specialty consultations   226,996  234,090       245,911      239,820      236,758      231,836        248,940      +10
2) HOSPITAL SOTERO DEL RIO (Servicio de Salud Metropolitano Sur-Oriente)
Hospital Type 1
1990        1991         1992          1993          1994          1995          1996      % 90-96
Hospital discharged    36,282       38,078        38,938        37,840       41,912        51,427       45,093        +24
Average length of stay    5.8           5.6          5.7           5.7          5.5           5.2           5.0       -14
Major surgeries        13,376        13,958       14,067        13,577        14,988       16,094        17,189       +29
Minor surgeries        13,526        12,568       12,605        12,087        11,827       12,431        11,744       -13
Imageonology Exams     97,020       94,879        99,023        93,099      110,765       111,502       122,634       +26
Laboratory exams      949,221      969,887     1,035,983     1,092,523     1,169,212    1,222,839     1,238,675       +30
Specialty consultations   194,957  205,154       211,443       205,976      214,894       209,705      214,151        +10



B. Non-Project Hospitals
1) HOSPITAL GUSTAVO FRICKE (Servicio de Salud Vifia del Mar-Quillota, Quinta Regi6n)
Hospital Type 1
________________          1990         1991         1992         1993         1994           1995          1996      %90-96
Hospital discharged     19,518       19,232       21,418       22,520        23,493        23,614        24,298       +24
Average length of stay     8.5          8.2          7.6          7.2           7.0           6.8           6.7       -22
Major surgeries          7,315        8,128        9,639       10,995        11,651        10,846        12,086       +65
Minor surgeries          6,119        7,199        6,393       15,386        16,368        11,870         9,006       +47
Imageonology Exams      72,020       69,283       69,941      103,286       136,551       130,551       149,424      +107
Laboratory exams       649,943      691,918      617,261      673,359       841,785       835,760       833,020       +28
Specialty consultations   112,711   105,706      116,584      132,562       147,690       140,046       133,730       +19
2) HOSPITAL SOTERO DEL RIO (Servicio de Salud Metropolitano Sur-Oriente)
Hospital Type 1
1990         1991         1992         1993         1994          1995          1996      % 90-96
Hospital discharged     10,468        9,954        9,136       10,851        10,508        10,820        11,145       +6
Average length of stay     6.2          6.1          6.9          6.0           5.9           6.0           5.7        -8
Major surgeries            n/d          n/d        1,675        1,772         2,026         2,325        3,051       +82
Minor surgeries            n/d          n/d        2,747        3,475         3,012         2,807        2,430        -12
Imageonology Exams      17,307       18,054       21,339       21,777        25,280        26,205       28,953       +67
Laboratory exams       179,004      162,621      176,158      148,403       161,717       151,361      185,673        +4
Specialty consultations    50,268    53,574       53,266       53,792        60,140        32,840       59,470       +18



Appelndix A
CHILE
AYUDA MEMORIA
MISION DE TERMINACION DEL PROYECTO DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA Y
REHABILITACION DE HOSPITALES (TAHRP): PRESTAMO 3427-CH
I. INTRODUCCION
1. Del 8 al 21 de Enero de 1998. Kye Woo Lee, Sandra Rosenhouse y Patricia Bernedo (7-14 de
enero), de la Oficina Regional de America Latina y el Caribe del Banco Mundial (BM), realiz6 una
misi6n de terminaci6n del proyecto.
2. La misi6n desea agradecer a las autoridades y funcionarios del gobierno por las atenciones y
colaboraci6n recibida. Durante la misi6n se sostuvieron reuniones con el Ministro de Salud, Dr.
Alex Figueroa, algunos Directivos del Ministerio de Salud (MINSAL), algunos Directores de
Servicios de Salud (SS) y Hospitales de la Regi6n Metropolitana (RM), con el Director de la
Central Nacional de Abastecimiento (CENABAST) y con el Coordinador General de la Unidad
Coordinadora del Proyecto (UCP). La Misi6n sostuvo tambien reuniones con Directivos del
Ministerio de Hacienda (MH) y del Ministerio de Planificaci6n (MIDEPLAN). El anexo contiene
una lista de personas con quienes la Misi6n sostuvo reuniones.
3. La Misi6n revis6 las principales actividades del Proyecto y presenta sus conclusiones y
recomendaciones, asi como los acuerdos logrados con las personas responsables del Proyecto.
1     REViSION DE LAS ACTIVIDADES PRrNCIPALES
4. Comentarios Generales. La misi6n y los Directivos del gobierno concuerdan que en general el
Proyecto ha sido implementado eficiente y exitosamente, si bien este fue terrninado con un atraso
de 2 afios. Los 17 Hospitales de la Regi6n Metropolitana superaron sus necesidades de
rehabilitaci6n bisica a travis de la reparaci6n o reposici6n de infraestructura y equipamiento
medico, por medio de la presentaci6n y ejecuci6n de subproyectos financiados con fondos del
pr6stamo, a traves del Fondo Concursable. Las cinco areas de Estudios Institucionales y de
Politicas fueron tambien exitosamente realizados.  La UCP tambien transfiri6  sus funciones
ejecutoras a varios Directivos del ?vITNSAL , responsables de los distintos componentes del
Proyecto.
S. Asistencia Tecnica. Estudios v Experiencias Pilotos. La mayoria de los Estudios fueron
terrninados antes de la Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino en octubre de 1993. Algunos estudios
financiados con el Project Preparation Facilities (PPF), fueron terminados incluso antes que el
proyecto fuera presentado al Comite de Directores en el Banco. Sin embargo, la mayoria de los
estudios, incluidos aquellos incorporados en enero de 1995 para prioridades del MINSAL y rol
del FONASA, fueron continuados con financiamiento HSRP, cumpliendo su rol como fase
preparatoria del HSRP. Por otra parte, algunas importantes recomendaciones y planes de acci6n
producto de los estudios, han sido exitosamente probados mediante pilotos, aunque la mayoria de
estas pruebas podrian haber sido hechas bajo el proyecto TAHRP, para aprovechar el aprendizaje y
las oportunidades de innovaci6n acumulados con el proyecto TAHRP, previo al inicio de la gran
reforma incluida en el HSRP.
6. La terminaci6n de algunos estudios fue retrasada debido a la oposici6n y debates de partidos



politicos, gremios, grupos de interes, etc. y en alguna medida, a cambios en la orientaci6n y falta
de definici6n de la Reforma por parte del gobierno ( por ejemplo un nivel 6ptimo de la mezcla
puiblico privada en la provisi6n de servicios y en su financiamiento).
7. Rehabilitaci6n Hospitalaria: El componente de Rehabilitaci6n que inclufa cerca del 80% del costo
del Proyecto, fue retrasado por dos afios por varias razones, principalmente por el extremadamnente
ambicioso plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto (por ejemplo, el 30% de los fondos del credito
asignados a este componente debian estar desembolsados a septiembre de 1993, un anio y medio
despues de la fecha de efectividad del acuerdo de prestamo, pese a que esto normalmente es
logrado despues de dos a tres anos), y por una asignaci6n de presupuesto limitada por el MINSAL
III. SUSTENTABILIDAD PLAN OPERACIONAL E IMPACTO
8. Capacidad Institucional de la Red de Salud : El objetivo de descentralizaci6n del componente de
Rehabilitaci6n fue logrado con la activa participaci6n de los Hospitales y Servicios de Salud del
Proyecto, en las etapas de identificaci6n, preparaci6n y ejecuci6n de los subproyectos. En
particular aquellos Servicios de Salud que utilizaron fondos del prestamo para fortalecer sus
departamentos de Recursos Fisicos, en lugar de usarlos para la contrataci6n de consultores,
reforzaron su capacidad Institucional y tuvieron tambien importantes efectos de demostraci6n hacia
otros departamentos, especialmente hacia los de planificaci6n.  Este fortalecimiento de la
capacidad institucional tendra efectos sustentables en la inversi6n futura.
9. Cuando los subproyectos de rehabilitaci6n Hospitalaria fueron presentados para su aprobaci6n,
tanto tos hospitales como los servicios se comprometieron a aumentar los gastos de operaci6n y
mantenimiento para administrar las areas intervenidas. Sin embargo, estos no tienen adecuados
presupuestos de mantenimiento y en algunos hospitales no existen itemes de financiamiento de
mantenimiento. Por otra parte, varios hospitales piensan que si bien la mayoria de las necesidades
de rehabilitaci6n urgente fueron satisfechas con el Proyecto, ellos aun requieren mis gastos en
prioridades de rehabilitaci6n, no solo gastos de rnodemizaci6n. Cerca del 57% de los subproyectos
presentados por los hospitales y servicios de salud fueron reconocidos por sus prioridades, pero no
consiguieron aprobaci6n debido a restricciones presupuestarias.  Consecuentemente, varios
hospitales del proyecto indican que no estan operando en un nivel 6ptimo de eficiencia y calidad.
Recomendaci6n: El gobierno podria crear un fondo de mantenimiento ( y modernizaci6n ) de
infraestructura y equipamiento de salud y ponerlo a disposici6n de hospitales y Servicios de Salud,
mediante un sistema de Fondo Concursable, como el TAHRP. El fondo podria ser financiado con
aporte externo, como un nuevo prestamo del Banco Mundial y una donaci6n de la agencia de la ayuda
Alemana (KFW), la cual ya financi6 tal fondo en el pasado, o con aporte local.
10. La calidad de los servicios de salud publicos. Todos los estudios, la asistencia tecnica y los planes
pilotos realizados bajo el TAHRP, sirvieron como un input esencial para la pr6xima fase de
estudios, pilotos, y acciones legislativas y ejecutivas para la reforma sectorial realizadas bajo el
HSRP.
11. Bajo el proyecto, el gobierno acord6 preparar un sistema de evaluaci6n y monitoreo que abarque
los servicios ofrecidos por las instituciones del sector publico y aplicarlo a las instituciones que
participaron en el TAHRP. Sin embargo, este es uno de los pocos acuerdos y estudios, el cual no
fue terminado con el proyecto, y el gobierno no tiene un conocimiento claro del estado de los
servicios de salud publicos. Algunas muestras de encuesta de opini6n puiblica, las cuales fueron



recientemente recopiladas por el Ministerio, indican que la gente aprecia los mejoramientos en la
infraestructura de salud publica, pero no sienten ningun mejoramiento perceptible en la calidad y
eficiencia de los servicios entregados en dicha infraestructura.
12. La Unidad Coordinadora del Provecto. En la 6poca en que la evaluaci6n de medio termino fue
realizada, la UCP habia transferido sus responsabilidades de ejecuci6n a los departarnentos del
Ministerio y a las entidades aut6nomas descentralizadas, y habia centrado su atenci6n en la
coordinaci6n y monitoreo del proyecto. En opini6n del Banco, la efectividad de la UCP ha sido
adversamente afectada por la ubicaci6n de la UCP bajo el Departamento de Inversiones, dos
niveles mas abajo que el nivel de Divisi6n , considerando la separaci6n de los departamentos de
estudios e inversiones al interior del Ministerio.
Recomendaci6n: El gobierno podria considerar la posibilidad de ubicar a la UCP en una unidad
organizacional y a un nivel donde esta pueda efectivamente monitorear y coordinar los componentes
de infraestructura y desarrollo Institucional/Estudios del HSRP y fortalecer su organizaci6n interna.
13. Desembolsos v cancelaci6n del fondo de prestamo no utilizado * Todos los fondos del pr6stamo
han sido comprometidos al 31 de diciembre de 1997. El gobierno intenta hacer calzar los fondos
del prestamo con el total de gastos comprometidos, dentro de un periodo extendido especialmente
para este fin, al 30 de abril de 1998.
14. Reporte de auditoria: La UCP comprometi6 el reporte de auditoria de los gastos de 1997, estari
elaborado a mas tardar el 30 dejunio de 1998.
15. Inforrne de Terminaci6n del Prestatario. El informe del prestatario aun no ha sido elaborado. Sin
embargo, la misi6n ha entregado toda la informaci6n y guias necesarias para su preparaci6n, ademis
de la informaci6n proporcionada por la Task Manager del Proyecto antes de la misi6n. Se acord6 que
la UCP, con la colaboraci6n de otros Deparatamentos del MINSAL, elaborari y enviari al Banco
dicho Inforrne, preferiblemente a finales del mes de Enero, pero no mis alli del 06 de Febrero.
Santiago, Chile
20 de Enero de 1998
Kye Woo Lee                                                ga
Banco Mundial                                         a   r Gen   I UCP



ANEXO
LA LISTA DE PERSONAS CONSULTADAS
1)    Ministro                    Dr. Alex Figueroa
Jefe Div. Recursos Humanos  Dra. Marisol Barria
Director (S) FONASA        Dr. Francisco Olivari
Jefe (S) U.G.S.            Rolando Zuiiga
Jefe (S) Depto. de Estudios   Alberto Munioz
Jefe Div. de Inversiones   Dra. Soledad Ubilla
2)    MIDEPLAN
Nancy Wlhitle              Jefe (S) Departamento de Inversiones
Pamela Vera                Sectorialista Area Social
3)    MINISTERIO DE HACIENDA
Gabriel Guerrero
Fernando Latuz
4)    SERVICIO DE SALUD METROPOLITANO NORTE
Dr. Carlos Flores Otero    Director Hospital Roberto del Rio
Dra. Ghislaine Arcil Greve    Subdirector Medico
Ana Luisa Melo             Jefe Depto. De Recursos Fisicos
Alicia Zamorano            Inspector Tecnico Obra Hospital San Jose ( Depto. De
Recursos Fisicos
Mauricio Curihual Perez    Ingeniero Civil en Obras Depto. Recursos Fisicos
5) SERVICIO DE SALUD METROPOLITANO SUR
Dr. Mario Salcedo          Director Servicio de Salud
Dr. Osvaldo Salgado        Subdirector Medico Servicio de Salud.
Ricardo Frodden            Jefe Depto. De Recursos Fisicos
Maria Cristina Mena        Depto. De Recursos Fisicos



6) HOSPITAL EXEQUIEL GONZALEZ CORTEZ
Dr. Jose Arriagada Riffo   Director Hospital
Dr. Marcos Reyes Ruiz      Subdirector Medico
Dr. Luis del Rio           Jefe Unidad de Estudios Hospital
Maximo G6mez Lazcano       Subdirector Administrativo Hospital
7)    SERVICIO DE SALUD METROPOLITANO OCCIDENTE
Dr. Victor Barbieris       Director Servicio de Salud
Jaime Manriquez            Jefe (S) Unidad de Planes y Proyectos de Servicios Hospital
FElix Bulnes
Dr. Alfonso Chelen         Director Hospital Felix Bulnes
Ursula Galaz               Subdirectora Adminitrativa Hospital Felix Bulnes
Andres Badilla             Relacionador Publico Hospital FElix Bulnes
8)    MINSAL - KFW y MINSAL-BID
Juan Carlos Cabezas        Coordinador Prograina MINSAL - KFW
Leocan Ponce               Jefe Area Inversiones DINRED
Jorge Plaza                Coordinador Proyecto MINSAL - BID
Adriana Ardvalo            MNSAL - KFW
Pablo Herrera              MINSAL - KFW
Maria Angdlica Caprile     MINSAL - BID
9)    CENABAST
Emillio Jaque Araya        Director CENABAST
Jorge Carikeo Montoya      Jefe Departamento de Operaciones



I 0) INTEGRAMEDICA
Dr. Hector Sanchez Rodriguez
II)   UNIDAD COORDINADORA DEL PROYECTO
Rogelio Zufliga E.         Coordinador General UCP
Juan Luis Gumucio          Asesor Coordinador General UCP
Francisco Sanchez M.       Coordinador Area de Inversiones TAIRP
Erick Z6fliga S.           Coordinador Area de Inversiones HSRP
Mirtha Oyarz(in            Coordinador Area de Finanzas



REtPtBLCA DE: CHHEX
PROYECTOS MINSAL - BANCO MUNDLAL
PARA:    Kyc Woo Lee
FAX:      202) 522 12 01
.PA6vINAS:  fZncZuyendo edsta 4
DE:       Francisco $dnchez Af.
*uCr tLectos fNSAL - Banco             ___ndta-
Fono: 6300732 - 6300733 - 6300735 - 6300736 - 6300794 -6300796
Fax: 664 39 01
Fecha: 19 de mayo de 1998
.. - e-  -   *... . ..    ................. ..    .. ..  . *
be acuerdo a lo conversado, adjunto envio a usted 'Evaluacidn de la
*tmplementaci6n del Proyecto".
Saluda atentamiente a usted,
Francisco Sdnchez



REPUBLIC OF CHILE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND HOSPITAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(TAHRP)
(LOAN 3427-CH)
COMMENTS ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT'
(1) Page 10, para. 40
The study referred to in this paragraph has no relation to the surveys of TAHRP project
beneficiaries. Instead, it is a summary of 16 studies, carried out between July 1993 and May
1997, which includes: six health surveys of persons over 18 years of age living in the country's
largest cities; five public opinion surveys of persons over 18 years of age from both urban and
rural backgrounds living in the country's main cities; and two user surveys, both conducted in
1994, one covering users of primary care services and the other covering users of the services of
a project hospital.  What this summary concludes is "that the public is aware of the
improvements in public health infrastructure but notices no perceptible improvement in the
quality and efficiency of the services delivered through this infrastructure." (Aide Memoire,
TAHRP Project Completion Mission, January 1998, para. 11.)
(2)   Page 12, para.43
It is not clear what kinds of error are being alluded to, especially as the comments on some of the
components mentioned - e.g. performance contracts (para. 28) and special programs (paras. 38
and 39) - do not point to errors in their implementation. In particular, we do not understand
the link made between HSRP subprojects and the Pilot Implementation Program, given the
impracticability and impossibility of launching pilot programs to test execution of the
investments component of the HSRP; after all, HSRP subprojects were implemented over
extended time periods, stretching all the way from the preliminary planning stages to execution
of actual works contracts. Moreover, identification of architectural and engineering design
problems during mid-term review of the HSRP was fully consistent with the purpose of this
evaluation exercise and provided an opportunity to introduce corrective measures, during the
execution process itself, to mitigate their effect.
(3)   Page 14, para. 51
Because one of the objectives of both projects was to support decentralization, it was decided
that execution of the various components would be decentralized so that the entities involved
would themselves be the executing agencies for their own subprojects.
'Translated from a Spanish version.



Initially, the Ministry of Health was to be responsible for implementing the project under a
system of decentralized execution, for providing the HSAs with technical assistance, and for
supervising and monitoring all project activities, whether carried out by the Ministry's own
departments or by independent agencies. To ensure proper coordination of these executing
entities, their project activities, and the project objectives, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
answerable to the Ministry of Health, was set up, one of its key functions to be that of providing
technical assistance.
As there had been no major investment in the health sector for a long time, it was concluded that
the HSAs would in general not be capable of carrying out subproject activities quickly and
efficiently. In order to provide for some strengthening of these executing entities, funds were
allocated to them under the heading "Consulting Services: HSA Integrated Development
Component," in accordance with the scale of their subprojects and the associated implementation
schedules.
In the same vein, the PCU, in late 1992, recommended to the directors of the HSAs the formation
of teams of consultants for "director support" purposes. The idea was that they would facilitate
both the execution and operation of subprojects, doing so under contractual arrangements. This
decision was based on the need to strengthen the HSAs for their management role in this project,
and to create a counterpart to the PCU.
In the end, the solutions adopted for the HSAs were different, dictated by their particular needs
and the realities each had to deal with. In the main, they opted for intermediate solutions by
combining their own personnel with external consulting resources (from the "director support"
teams). This new structure was given the name Local Unit.
Independently of the solution adopted, the HSAs received financing for external consultants and
office equipment (furniture and computer systems) from the proceeds of the Ministry of
Health/World Bank project.
In addition, beginning in March 1992, the PCU organized numerous training seminars for the
HSAs (see Annex 17, TAHRP Mid-Term Review Report), and continued to do so at least once a
year until 1996 as part of the Annual PCU Program formulated in December each year.
(4)   Page 17, para. 63
It is our view that this process never meant that the PCU stopped monitoring project costs. What
it did mean, however, was that it became impossible for some time to comply with Bank
procedures for procurement of consulting services, with the result that these services were not
presented for reimbursement but were dealt with subsequently.



(5)   Page 19, para. 73
On the subject of non-compliance with the covenant governing monitoring and evaluation, it
may be noted the PCU was on schedule (June 30, 1992) in presenting its report on the study
conducted by a team of consultants in connection with Part A.10 of the project - see TAHRP
Mid-Term Review Report, Annex 1, page 33, Covenant 5-4 (i). Also, during the June/July 1992
mission, the PCU discussed the indicators and results reflecting monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation.
On page 34 of the abovementioned Report, it is noted that Covenant 5-9 had been complied with
as of June 30, 1993, by forwarding of the indicators given in the PCU's Mid-Term Review
Report. Any failure to comply with this covenant had to do with the commitment to be fulfilled
by June 30, 1995.
The foregoing may not make the observations on the implications of the continuing failure to
have developed a monitoring and evaluation system for the HSRP any less valid, but it does
clarify the degree of non-compliance with the covenant in question.
All the above comments obviously apply also to those sections of the Evaluation Summary that
deal with the same matters.



IBRD 23251
kPERU 7q      60.
BOLIVIA    , BRAZIL                                          C H I L E
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE HOSPITALS
XILEv<lu x~RAGUIN METROPOLITAN SANTIAGO
A R I            3                 TYPE OF PREDOMINANT HEALTH SERVICES:             TYPE OF HOSPIIAL:
I ARGENTINA                                               ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 PUBLIC
Liii A N ;  m PUBLIC                      0       PRIVATE
A  MILITARY
i~~ii  PRIVATE               U   ~~~~~~ PRIVATE / PUBLIC MIX
ABOUT EQUAL PROPORTION                  MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LO BARNEE
Wt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
E3   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~l T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h. ld8- -,M
re,rroryoh.d, , - or-
SEPTEMBER 1991



