Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3427 CH
(Technical Assistance and Hospital Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3427 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Japan (Japan) a 
grant in an amount equivalent to c 94,500,000 to assist in financing Parts A.1 (b) and 
A.3 (d) of the Project and local training under Part B.2 (b) of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between Japan and 
the Borrower (the Japanese Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
 
(b)
in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of 
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank;
 
(b)
"Eligible Hospital" means any of the following hospitals located in 
Metropolitan Santiago (as defined below) which has been classified, pursuant to the 
application of the criteria described in
Article 78 of Supreme Decree No. 42 of February 3, 1986 as Type 1 and Type 2 
hospitals: San Jose, Roberto del Rio, Psiquiatrico, Caupolican Pardo Correa, San Juan 
de Dios, Felix Bulnes, Traumatologico, Melipilla, San Borja Arriaran, Asistencia 
Publica, El Salvador, Luis Calvo Mackenna, Instituto Neurocirugia, Inerycit, Barros 
Luco Trudeau, Exequiel Gonzalez Cortes and Sotero del Rio, or any other hospital 
classified as Type 1 or Type 2 hospital by application of the criteria of Supreme 
Decree No. 42 mentioned above, located in Metropolitan Santiago (as defined below) and 
which has been accepted by the Bank as an Eligible Hospital;
(c)
"Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subproject" means a subproject for the 
rehabilitation of Eligible Hospitals which have been selected and approved for 
financing under the Loan in accordance with the HSA Implementation Manual;
(d)
"Eligible Pilot Investment" means investments comprising goods, works 
and/or services required to test the effectiveness of policy or institutional reforms 
to be adopted by the Borrower and
which have been approved for financing by the Bank;
(e)
"HSA" means a Health Service Area, a legally autonomous health service of 
the Borrower created by Chapter II of decree-law No. 2763 of 1979;
(f)
"HSA Implementation Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
regulating the procedures for financing the rehabilitation of Eligible Hospitals 
including the selection criteria of Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 of the Loan 
Agreement;
(g)
"Implementation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each of the Project HSAs pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Implementation Agreement.
(h)
"Master Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the Borrower 
and a Project HSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Master 
Agreement;
(i)
"Metropolitan Santiago" means the area comprising the provinces 
Page  3
(provincias) of Santiago, Chacabuco, Cordillera, Talaqante, Maipo and Melipilla;
(j)
"MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(k)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit to be maintained pursuant to 
the provisions of Schedule 5, paragraph 1 (a) to this Agreement;
(l)
"PCU Operation Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank to be 
adopted by the Borrower to regulate the activities of the PCU pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 5, paragraph 1 (b) to this Agreement;
(m)
"Project HSA" or "Project HSAs" means any or all of the HSAs with 
jurisdiction over the following health regions in Metropolitan Santiago: Metropolitan 
North, Metropolitan Southeast, Metropolitan West, Metropolitan Central, Metropolitan 
South and Metropolitan East;
(o)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 
27, 1990 and August 31, 1990 between the Borrower and the Bank, as amended on July 10, 
1991; and 
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to 
the amount of twenty seven million dollars ($27,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals 
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
Page  4
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project through MOH with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, financial, engineering, 
administrative and health 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the 
Project; and
(ii)
shall cause the Project HSAs to carry out Part C of the Project 
with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, financial, engineering, 
administrative and health 
practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
Page  5
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Project HSAs to carry out Part C 
of the 
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of Part 
C of the Project by the Project HSAs.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into a master agreement, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include those set 
forth in Schedule 7, Part A, to this Agreement, with each of the Project HSAs 
interested in participating in the implementation of Part C of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into an implementation agreement, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include those 
set forth in Schedule 7, Part B, to this Agreement, with each of the Project HSAs with 
which it has entered into a Master Agreement and which have been selected to carry out 
Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Master 
Agreements and the Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest 
of the Borrower and the Bank to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Master Agreements or the Implementation Agreements or any
provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project and shall cause the Project HSAs to carry out 
Part C of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part C of the 
Project shall be carried out by the Project HSAs.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes that: (a) unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects shall be evaluated and selected in 
accordance with the provisions and the criteria set forth in the HSA Implementation 
Manual; (b) it shall furnish to the Bank for its approval the first 18 Eligible 
Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects, and any other Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation 
Subprojects which cost shall exceed $250,000 before the Borrower's approval of such 
Subproject; and (c) it shall, promptly after the review referred to in Section 3.06 
(b) (i) of this Agreement, modify the selection criteria for Eligible Hospital 
Rehabilitation Subprojects included in the HSA Implementation Manual as shall be 
required, in the opinion of the Borrower and/or the Bank, to reflect the conclusions 
of such review. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than June 15, 1992, furnish to the 
Bank for its approval all the proposed Eligible Pilot Investments.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall review with the Bank:
(a)
not later than July 30, 1992 its progress in the implementation of the 
actions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b)
not later than June 30, 1993 its progress in the implementation of the 
Project and the actions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and in particular: 
(i) the adequacy of the selection criteria for Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation 
Subprojects included in the HSA Implementation Manual in view of the results of the 
studies to be carried out under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project; and (ii) the 
progress made in transferring some of the functions of the PCU to the relevant 
Page  6
departments or agencies of MOH or to the HSA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and B of 
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Project HSAs to maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project and 
each Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subproject.
(c)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, and cause the Project HSAs, in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this 
Section to maintain, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, and cause the Project HSAs to retain, until at least one 
year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each Project HSA:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
Page  7
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and engineering and health practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
health practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Decree-Law No. 2763 of 1979 or the HSAs regulations published in the 
Official Gazette No. 32642 of December 9, 1986 or the HSAs Implementation Manual shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Project HSAs to 
perform any of their obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
any of the Project HSAs shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under their respective Master Agreements or Implementation Agreements; and
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof, 
or
 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of this Agreement shall occur; and
 
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
Page  8
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower shall have adopted, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, the PCU Operation Manual and the HSA Implementation Manual; and
(b)
the Japanese Grant Agreement has been entered into and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms or the Borrower shall have made 
alternative arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the financing of Parts A.1 
(b), A.3 (d) and the local training under Part B.2 (b) of the Project.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the PCU Operation Manual and the 
HSA Implementation Manual have been duly adopted and are legally binding in accordance 
with their respective terms.
Section 7.03. The date March 18, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120 Piso 12
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Jorge Jimenez de la Jara
Page  9
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Goods                    13,590,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(2)   Works                     5,130,000       35% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Consultants               1,990,000  100%
      Services under
      Part A of the
      Project (other
      than under Parts
      A.1 (b) and A.3 (d)
      thereof)
(4)   Training under               80,000       100% of foreign
      Part B of the                             expenditures
      Project
(5) Eligible Pilot           1,260,000          (i) 35% of local
    Investments                                 expenditures for
                                                works; (ii) 100%
                                                of foreign expen-
                                                ditures, 100% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally, for
                                                goods; and (iii)
                                                100% of expendi-
                                                tures for
                                                consultants
Page  10
                                                services
(6) Project                  1,620,000          100%
    Administration
(7) Refunding of               750,000          Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated              2,580,000
                            __________
      TOTAL                 27,000,000
                            ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
"Project Administration" means: (i) the salaries of four senior level 
professionals, 24 technical staff, and seven support staff of the PCU; and (ii) the 
cost of leasing the office space for
the PCU, office supplies, maintenance of PCU equipment, water, electricity, gas and 
communication services for the PCU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,700,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
July 15, 1991; and (b) goods or works under an Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation 
Subproject unless the respective Master Agreement and Implementation Agreement have 
been signed.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for such expenditures and under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (a) to develop, and 
commence implementation of, policy, institutional and operational reforms in the 
delivery of health care services in its territory; and (b) to rehabilitate and upgrade 
hospitals in Metropolitan Santiago.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out of studies:
1.
(a)
for preparation of architectural designs and engineering details of 
selected health facilities in Metropolitan Santiago, Antofagasta and Llanchipal; and
(b)
for preparation of architectural designs and engineering details for four 
hospitals in Metropolitan Santiago, and one hospital each in Antofagasta and 
Llanchipal;
Page  11
2.
to review the cost structure of the different health services provided by health 
care providers, and to design and implement selected health financing schemes to be 
applied by the Borrower;
3.
(a)
to review proposals for the strengthening of MOH, including in particular 
pecuniary and nonpecuniary incentives to improve the skills, morale and geographic 
distribution of MOH personnel and the regulatory framework of such incentives;
(b)
to design a regulatory framework for implementing the selected 
modifications of the structure and functions of MOH, including norms and procedures to 
strengthen the monitoring of the
quality of care indicators of MOH;
(c)
to design a training scheme to improve the normative, monitoring, 
supervision and financial management capacity of MOH; and
(d)
to design an integrated information system to facilitate policy 
decision-making and monitoring by MOH, as well as management information systems and 
referrals in selected health centers;
4.
(a)
to improve the organizational structure and operational norms and 
procedures in the procurement of pharmaceuticals, equipment, and food supplements of 
MOH's central supply facility;
and
(b)
for drafting new regulations comprising the procedures developed under 4 
(a) above;
5.
to design systems to improve the organizational and operational efficiency of 
the Borrower's Institute of Public Health;
6.
to review alternative organizational models of public hospitals and to design 
the implementing details of the models selected in such review;
7.
to review the regulatory framework for the operation of the Borrower's Prepaid 
Health Insurance Plans (Instituciones de Salud Previsional) and the transparency of 
the health insurance services
provided by the private sector in Chile, and to draft the applicable regulations;
8.
to evaluate the Borrower's program of food supplementation, to identify any 
reforms that might be needed to improve its operation, design mechanisms to implement 
such reforms, and to review the investment and operational costs thereof;
9.
to design the pilot phase of programs to be implemented by MOH to address 
problems in environmental health and women's health; and
10.
to develop methods for monitoring the implementation of each of the components 
of the health sector reform program to be carried out by the Borrower, including an 
evaluation of the costs, benefits
and impact of the investments of such program and the development of monitoring 
indicators to measure improvements in the delivery of health services by public sector 
facilities.
Part B:
Pilot Test of Health Reforms and Startup Operations
 
1.
Acquisition and utilization of hardware and software for MOH's information 
network and for the information systems of one hospital ambulatory care center and ten 
urban health care centers.
2.
(a)
Workshops designed to disseminate information on the health sector 
reforms adopted by the Borrower.
(b)
Local and overseas training of selected staff of MOH, the Project HSAs 
and Eligible Hospitals to improve their managerial and technical skills.
3.
Carrying out of Eligible Pilot Investments.
 
Page  12
Part C:
Rehabilitation of Eligible Hospitals
 
Carrying out of Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
June 15, 1996
620,000
December 15, 1996
645,000
June 15, 1997
670,000
December 15, 1997 
695,000
June 15, 1998 
725,000
December 15, 1998
750,000
June 15, 1999 
780,000
December 15, 1999
810,000
June 15, 2000 
840,000
December 15, 2000 
875,000
June 15, 2001
905,000
December 15, 2001
940,000
June 15, 2002
980,000
December 15, 2002
     1,015,000
June 15, 2003
     1,055,000
December 15, 2003
     1,095,000
June 15, 2004 
     1,140,000
December 15, 2004  
     1,185,000
June 15, 2005 
     1,230,000
December 15, 2005
     1,275,000
June 15, 2006 
     1,325,000
December 15, 2006 
     1,375,000
June 15, 2007
     1,430,000
December 15, 2007 
     1,485,000
June 15, 2008  
     1,545,000
December 15, 2008 
     1,610,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below: 
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  13
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.
3.
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A hereof; (ii) the first three contracts for works procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more per contract; and (iii) the first three contracts for goods procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.4 hereof and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more per contract, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Page  14
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program 
Actions to be taken by the Borrower              Date (by)
1.    (a)   Maintain a Project
            coordination unit
            with powers, responsi-
            bilities and staffing
            satisfactory to the
            Bank; and
      (b)   adopt, and thereafter
            apply, a PCU operation
            manual satisfactory to
            the Bank, to regulate                At all times
            the powers and respon-               during Project
            sibilities of the PCU.               Implementation
      (c)   Furnish to the Bank a
            plan of action, including
            the schedule thereof,
            satisfactory to the Bank,
            for the transfer of
            functions of the PCU to
            the relevant departments
            or agencies of MOH and/or
            to the HSAs.                         June 30, 1992
2.    Furnish to the Bank a state-
      ment of the Borrower's policy
      for the health sector modified
      as needed to take into account
      the results of the studies to
      be carried out under Part A
Page  15
      of the Project                             July 31, 1992
3.    (a)   Furnish to the Bank for
            its comments its recom-
            mendations from the study
            referred to in Part A.2
            of the Project; and                  June 30, 1992
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower          Date (by)
      (b)   commence implementation,
            on a pilot basis, of such
            recommendations modified
            as needed to take into
            account the Bank's comments          October 30,
            thereon.                             1992
4.    Furnish to the Bank for its
      comments:
      (a)  (i) its recommendations
               on the study referred
               to in Part A.3 (a)
               of the Project; and               March 30, 1992
          (ii) the regulatory or legal
               changes that may be
               required pursuant to such
               recommendations;                  June 30, 1992
      (b)  the training scheme and
           information system to be
           designed under the study
           referred to in Part A.3 (c)
           and (d) of the Project; and           June 30, 1992
      (c)  (i) its recommendations on
               the study under Part A.4
               (a) of the Project; and           March 30, 1992
          (ii) the draft regulations
               that may be required pur-
               suant to such recommen-
               dations;                          June 30, 1992
      (d)  the systems to be designed
           under the study referred
           to in Part A.5 of the
           Project;                              June 30, 1992
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower         Date (by)
      (e)  the regulations that may be
           required pursuant to the
           study referred to in
           Part A.7 of the Project;              March 30, 1992
      (f)  the results of the
           evaluation to be made under
           the study referred to in
           Part A.8 of the Project,
           including the reforms
           required to such program;             June 30, 1993
      (g)  the details of implementa-
           tion of the reforms
           referred to in (f) above;             March 15, 1994
Page  16
      (h)  the designs of pilot action
           programs for environmental
           health and women's health
           to be prepared under the
           study referred to in
           Part A.9 of the Project; and          April 30, 1992
      (i)  the monitoring and evalua-
           tion methods developed
           under the study referred to
           in Part A.10 of the Project.          March 30, 1992
5.    Commence implementation of:
      (a)  the information systems
           referred to in Part A.3 (d)
           of the Project and the
           revised structure of MOH
           referred to in Part A.3 (b)
           of the Project;                       October 15, 1992
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower          Date (by)
      (b)  the organizational structure )
           and the operational norms and)
           regulations referred to in   )
           Part A.4 (a) of the Project; )
           and                          )
                                        )        February 15, 1993
      (c)  the organizational and       )
           operational efficiency of    )
           the Borrower's Institute of  )
           Public Health referred to in )
           Part A.5 of the Project      )
6.    Commence the pilot tests of selected:
      (a)  organizational models of public
           hospitals developed under
           Part A.6 of the Project;              October 15, 1993
      (b)  reforms to be implemented in
           the Borrower's food supplementa-
           tion program referred to in           September 15,
           Part A.8 of the Project; and          1994
      (c)  environmental health and
           women's health programs
           developed under Part A.9              September 15,
           of the Project.                       1992
7.    Without limitation to the provisions
      of Section 9.07 of the General
      Conditions furnish to the Bank:
      (a)  periodic reports on the               January 1,
           physical and financial status         April 1,
           of the Eligible Hospital              July 1 and
           Rehabilitation Subprojects;           October 1
                                                 of each year
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower         Date (by)
      (b)  (i) the proposed investments )
               to be made under the     )
               Project in the following )
Page  17
               calendar year; and       )
                                        )        November 30 each
          (ii) a report of the status of)        year
               execution of the invest- )
               ments included in that   )
               year's work program.     )
      (c)  the training activities to be
           carried out under Part B.2 (b)        June 15 and
           of the Project during the             December 15 each
           following six months                  year
8.    Carry out Eligible Hospital
      Rehabilitation Subprojects
      representing an amount of dis-
      bursements from the Loan proceeds
      under Categories (1) and (2), of
      at least 30%.                              June 30, 1993
9.    Furnish to the Bank an assessment
      of the status of achievement of
      the health sector indicators to be         June 30, 1993
      developed under the study referred         and June 30,
      to in Part A.10 of the Project             1995
      in the Eligible Hospitals.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  18
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions of the Master
and Implementation Agreements
Part A:
Conditions Applicable to Master Agreements
 
1.
Each Master Agreement between the Borrower, through MOH, and the respective 
Project HSA shall be a written agreement.
Page  19
2.
Each Master Agreement shall establish the obligation of the Project HSA:
 
(a)
to utilize the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of carrying out the 
Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects;
(b)
to procure works and goods required for the Eligible Hospital 
Rehabilitation Subprojects in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement;
(c)
to utilize the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan exclusively for the purposes of Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects;
(d)
to comply with the record keeping requirements set forth in Section 4.01 
(b) and (d) (i) and (ii) of the Loan Agreement and with the requirements of Article V 
of the Loan Agreement;
(e)
to exercise its rights and obligations with respect to the Master 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
achieve the purposes of the Loan; and
(f)
(i)
to prepare and submit to MOH for approval the respective Eligible 
Hospital 
Rehabilitation Subprojects; and
 
(ii)
carry out Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subprojects in 
accordance with the 
provisions of HSA Implementation Manual 
and the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
3.
Each agreement shall include the right of the Borrower, through MOH:
 
(a)
to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods, sites, services, works and construction financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents therefor;
(b)
to obtain from the Project HSA all such information as the Bank, through 
the Borrower, or the Borrower shall reasonably request related to the foregoing 
provisions; and
(c)
to suspend or terminate the right of the Project HSA to use the proceeds 
of the Loan upon failure of the Project HSA to perform any of its obligations under 
the Master Agreement or the Implementation Agreement.
4.
Each agreement shall include the Borrower's and Project HSA's obligation to 
enter into an Implementation Agreement in respect of each Eligible Hospital 
Rehabilitation Subproject before commencing any works related thereto.
Part B:
Conditions Applicable to the Implementation Agreements
 
Each Implementation Agreement shall:
(a)
incorporate the provisions of the corresponding Master Agreement;
 
(b)
describe the Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subproject;
 
(c)
establish the amounts to be transferred by the Borrower to the Project 
HSA for the carrying out of the Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subproject; and
(d)
establish the amounts to be provided by the Project HSA as its 
contribution in the financing of the Eligible Hospital Rehabilitation Subproject.
