Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3473 CH
(Small Farmer Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 7, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3473 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
(B)
the Bank has received a letter dated April 1, 1992, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the 
Borrower's agricultural sector (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Banco Central de Chile;
 
(b)
"Credit Regulations" means INDAP's Reglamento de Credito, the credit 
regulations to be approved by the Directors of INDAP pursuant to Section 7.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Farmer" means a Small Farmer, or a Medium Farmer, or a Farmers' 
Organization to which INDAP proposes to make or has made a Subloan or Working Capital 
Subloan;
(d)
"Farm Investment Project" means a specific farm development project to be 
carried out by an Eligible Farmer utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(e)
"Farmers' Organization" means the organization of farmers referred to in 
Article 3, paragraph 2 of INDAP's Law;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means INDAP's or the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on 
January 1 and ending on December 31;
(g)
"FUCOA" means the Agricultural Communications Foundation, a foundation 
the by-laws of which were registered in the Notary's office of A. Bianchi Rosas on 
January 29, 1982 and which was granted juridical personality pursuant to a 
presidential decree dated April 5, 1982;
(h)
"INDAP" means the Borrower's Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario, the 
agricultural development institute established and operating pursuant to Law 18910 of 
January 16, 1990 published in the Official Gazette on February 10, 1990 (Law 18910);
(i)
"INDAP's Law" means Law 18910, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
 
(j)
"MBN" means the Borrower's Ministry of National Property;
 
(k)
"Medium Farmers" means the farmers, other than the Small Farmers (but 
including those farmers who have participated in INDAP's Programa de Transferencia de 
Tecnologia Integral), eligible
to receive credits from INDAP in accordance with INDAP's Law;
(l)
"PCMU" means the project coordination and management unit to be 
established and maintained pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 5, paragraph 1, to 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Phase 1" means the stage whereby technology transfer services are 
provided by INDAP to farmers mainly on an individual basis;
(n)
"Phase 2" means the stage whereby technology transfer services are 
provided by INDAP to farmers mainly on a group basis; 
(o)
"Phase 3" means the stage whereby technology transfer services are not 
Page  3
provided by INDAP to farmers under a regular plan;
(p)
"Small Farmers" means the farmers who have a monthly income equal to two 
minimum wages, or less;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(r)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by INDAP to an 
Eligible Farmer for a Farm Investment Project;
(s)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and INDAP pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(t)
"Working Capital Subloan" means a subloan made or proposed to be made by 
INDAP to an Eligible Farmer for the financing exclusively of expenditures necessary 
for agricultural inputs and
the exploitation and maintenance of the land; and
(u)
"U.F." means Unidad de Fomento, a monetary reference unit of the Borrower 
readjusted daily in accordance with the provisions of Supreme Decree No. 40 (Finance) 
dated January 2, 1967, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety five million dollars ($95,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals 
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of 
such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank or in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
Page  4
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part E of the Project through MBN with due 
diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
engineering, economic and 
administrative practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Part of the Project; and
(ii)
shall cause INDAP to carry out Parts A through D of the Project 
with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, engineering, economic, 
agricultural, environmental and 
administrative practices, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable INDAP to carry out Parts A through D 
of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such parts of 
Page  5
the Project by INDAP.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Part E of the Project and shall cause INDAP to carry out Parts A through D 
of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan allocated for the 
financing of Parts A,  C and D of the Project available to INDAP under a Subsidiary 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and INDAP, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall include those set 
forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out the research activities related to 
the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such activities. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A through 
D of the Project shall be carried out by INDAP.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than July 1, 1994: (i) review 
with the Bank and cause INDAP to review with the Bank, their progress in the 
implementation of the Project and the actions set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and, in particular, the need to increase INDAP's investments in technology 
transfer and credit for the remainder of the Project implementation period; and (ii) 
submit to the Bank, for approval, an action plan, to be carried out by the Borrower, 
to remedy any deficiencies in the implementation of the Project as identified in such 
review; and (b) promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans and Working Capital Subloans will be made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 8 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause INDAP to exercise its rights in relation to each 
Farm Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank 
and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause INDAP to take all such measures as shall 
be required to gradually improve its performance in the collection of the loans (other 
than those loans made by INDAP in connection with situations of national emergency 
declared by the Borrower, provided that such loans shall not exceed, in any given 
year, 10% of the total amount disbursed by INDAP in such year) made by INDAP after 
January 1, 1992, so that the amounts of principal and interest due and collected in 
each Fiscal Year in relation to the amounts due in such Fiscal Year shall be no lower 
than: (A) 85% in Fiscal Year 1992; (B) 88% in Fiscal Year 1994; and (C) 90% in Fiscal 
Year 1995 and thereafter.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part E of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
Part E of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for Part E of the Project were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause INDAP to maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of INDAP.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause INDAP to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
Page  7
records, accounts and 
financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for Parts A, C and D of the Project were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause
INDAP to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause INDAP:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, economic, administrative, agricultural and 
environmental practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its facilities, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial 
practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
INDAP's Law or the Credit Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations 
or the financial condition
of INDAP or its ability to carry out Parts A through D of the Project or to perform 
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(b)
INDAP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  8
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have established the PCMU in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5, paragraph 1, to this Agreement;
(b)
INDAP shall have adopted, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
the Credit Regulations;
(c)
the Borrower and INDAP shall have entered into the Subsidiary Agreement; 
and
(d)
INDAP shall have implemented a system, satisfactory to the Bank, for 
reporting credit information.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Credit Regulations have been duly adopted by INDAP; and
 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into and is legally 
binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 10, 1992 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  9
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Treasurer General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Controller General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                                       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
Page  10
    (a)  for Parts A,           600,000)        100% of local
         C and D of                    )        expenditures
         the Project                   )        (ex-factory
                                       )        cost) and 77%
    (b)  for Part E             700,000)        of local
         of the Project                )        expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2) Consultants'
    services and
    training
    (a)  for Parts A,        87,000,000)
         C and D                       )        100%
         of the Project                )
                                       )
    (b)  for Part E of        6,700,000)
         the Project
                              __________
         TOTAL                95,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$7,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of the table in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after January 1, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to overcome constraints to growth in 
small farm productivity, income and well-being; (b) to enhance the institutional 
capacity and effectiveness of INDAP and MBN; and (c) to foster small-producer access 
to the commercial markets for their products and factors of production, and to 
agricultural development programs sponsored by the Borrower or its agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Technology Transfer
 
1.
Carrying out of a technology transfer program designed to increase the on-farm 
productivity, income and well-being of about 84,000 farm families including, inter 
alia, technology transfer to groups or individuals to improve their quality of life, 
their basic, technical and farm management skills, the awareness of such farm families 
of other local services related to production and distribution of agricultural produce 
and their entrepreneurial skills; to build their marketing skills and to establish 
links between groups of farmers and the agroindustry. 
2.
Training of selected consultants employed by INDAP for the carrying out of its 
technology transfer program.
Page  11
3.
Carrying out of studies to support the design of policies and programs to 
improve INDAP's operations, including a study to address the needs of rural women for 
agricultural technology transfer.
Part B:
Credit
 
1.
The financing of Farm Investment Projects and Working Capital. 
 
2.
Assessments of the market feasibility of proposed projects of INDAP's clients.
 
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training to INDAP's clients in areas 
related to management, accounting and processing.
4.
Provision of grants to Eligible Farmers to improve their productivity.
 
5.
Improvement of credit collection capability of INDAP, by using, inter alia, the 
services of private agencies.
Part C:
Rural Communications
 
1.
Carrying out of television and radio programs: (a) to educate the general public 
about the rural sector's problems and the importance of its development; (b) to 
provide farmers with appropriate information as a basis for decision-making in their 
agricultural activities; and (c) to provide incentives to the rural populace for 
agricultural development.
2.
Development of audio-visual and print media to be used: (a) to enhance the 
capacity of rural extension activities; and (b) to collect and share information 
between farmers and technicians about
rural development problems and options, and technologies for resolving them.
Part D:
Institutional Development of INDAP
 
1.
Strengthening of INDAP's technology transfer operations through:
 
(a)
the establishment of about 17 area offices and about 65 temporary offices 
in isolated areas;
(b)
hiring of staff and training of INDAP's staff assigned to technology 
transfer activities in their respective fields; and
(c)
acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
 
2.
Training of INDAP's credit personnel in credit administration, including the 
credit information system referred to in D.4 below.
3.
Training, evaluation and coordination of INDAP's personnel to re-orient their 
methodology and practice to accommodate rural women's needs and develop their economic 
potential. 
4.
Development and acquisition of the required hardware and software for an 
information system for INDAP to cover credit reporting, financial accounting, 
monitoring and evaluation of INDAP technology transfer program and loan arrears 
management.
5.
Carrying out of a study on incentives for commercial banks to increase their 
lending to INDAP's clients including the preparation of a plan of action for applying, 
on a pilot basis, the incentives
identified in such study.
Part E:
MBN
 
1.
Carrying out of a land titling program for the provision of titles to about 
43,500 farmers.
2.
Institutional strengthening of MBN through:
 
Page  12
(a)
Acquisition and installation of a computerized information management 
system at MBN headquarters in Santiago and in each of its 13 regional offices.
(b)
Upgrading of MBN's planning and management capabilities through the 
provision of technical assistance for the reorganization of MBN's land titling 
functions and to strengthen its relationship with other agencies engaged in land 
titling activities.
3.
Training of selected staff of MBN involved in land titling activities in their 
respective fields.
4.
Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system for MBN's land titling 
activities.
5.
Rehabilitation and upgrading of offices of MBN's headquarters in Santiago and 
acquisition of vehicles, office, technical and computing equipment and related 
software for such offices.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1998
3,960,000
through   February 15, 2009
On August 15, 2009
3,920,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
Page  13
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000,  may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  14
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and INDAP in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall, and shall cause INDAP to, employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Actions to be taken by the Borrower              Date (by)
1.    Establish, and thereafter
      maintain, a Project coordi-
      nation and management unit
      with powers and responsibi-
      lities satisfactory
      to the Bank, and headed                    At all times
      by a Project manager and                   during Project
      coordinator with qualifi-                  implementation
      cations and under terms of
      employment satisfactory to
      the Bank.
2.    Cause INDAP to furnish to the
      Bank for its comments INDAP's
      recommendations on:
      (a)   The study to address the             March 31, 1994
            needs of rural women for
            agricultural technology
            transfer referred to in
            Part A.3 of the
            Project; and
      (b)   The study referred to in             Six months after
            Part D.5 of the Project.             the Effective
                                                 Date
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
3.    (a)   To complete implementa-        )
            tion of the plan of action     )
            for applying incentives for    )
            lending by commercial          )
            banks referred to in           )
            Part D.5 of the Project;       )
Page  15
            and                            )
                                           )     December 31, 1994
      (b)   Cause INDAP to imple-          )
            ment the recommenda-           )
            tions on the study             )
            referred to in Part D.5        )
            of the Project, taking         )
            into account the               )
            Bank's comments,               )
            thereon.                       )
4.    Cause INDAP to:
      (a)   furnish to the Bank for              Six months after
            its comments a plan of               the Effective
            action for improving                 Date
            rural women's access
            to credit, including the
            schedule thereof; and
      (b)   carry out a plan of                  As specified
            action referred to in 4 (a)          in the plan of
            above.                               action
5.    Without limitation to the provisions
      of Section 9.07 of the General
      Conditions furnish or cause to be
      furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   periodic reports on the              February 28
            progress made in the imple-          and August 31
            mentation of the Project;            each year, start-
                                                 ing on February
                                                 28, 1993
      Actions to be taken by the Borrower        Date (by)
      (b)   the proposed investments             October 31
            to be made under the                 each year, start-
            Project in the following             ing on October
            calendar year.                       31, 1992
6.    (a)   Employ consultants to carry out
            an in depth review of the prog-      April 1, 1994
            ress made in the implementa-         and April 1,
            tion of the Project; and             1996
      (b)   Furnish to the Bank for its
            comments the reports prepared        June 15, 1994
            by the consultants referred          and June 30,
            to in 6 (a) above.                   1996
7.    Cause INDAP to make arrangements,          Before com-
      satisfactory to the Bank, to engage        mencing imple-
      FUCOA to assist INDAP in the               mentation of      
      implementation of Part C of the            Part C of the
      Project.                                   Project
8.    Cause INDAP:
      (a)   to charge a fee, to all              Starting on
            Medium Farmers which                 June 1, 1993
            receive Phase 2 technology
            transfer services, which
            shall cover at least 30%
            of the cost to INDAP of
            providing such services
Page  16
      (b)   to charge a fee, for any             Starting on
            technology transfer                  June 1, 1994
            services to be provided to
            Medium Farmers, which shall
            cover at least 30% of the
            cost to INDAP of providing
            such services;
       Actions to be taken by the Borrower           Date (by)
      (c)   to furnish to the Bank for
            its comments the specifics
            of the criteria to be applied
            by INDAP in the selection of
            Small Farmers and Medium
            Farmers that will be requested
            to cover, commencing on
            June 1, 1996, (i) at least 30%
            of the cost to INDAP of
            providing technology transfer
            services to such Small Farmers;
            and (ii) 100% of any direct cost
            of providing technology
            transfer services to Medium
            Farmers.                             June 1, 1994
      (d)   to charge a fee, for any
            technology transfer services
            to be provided to Medium
            Farmers and applying the
            criteria referred to in (c)
            above, which shall cover
            100% of any direct cost
            of providing such services;          Starting on
            and                                  June 1, 1996
      (e)   to charge a fee, for any
            technology transfer services
            to be provided to Small
            Farmers and applying the
            criteria referred to in (c)
            above, which shall cover at
            least 30% of the cost to
            INDAP of providing such              Starting June 1,
            services.                            1996
9.    Take and/or cause INDAP to take
      all actions necessary to
      meet the performance indicators
      set forth in the Annex to this
      Schedule, all to be calculated
      in a manner satisfactory to the            As specified in
      the Bank.                                  the Annex
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
   Performance Indicators
      (by Subject)                       Date (by December 31 each year)
                         1992       1993        1994        1995         1996
I. Technology Transfer
Page  17
  (a)   Total Number of
        Beneficiary
        Families
   Phase I             25,000      45,000      52,000      62,000      54,000
   Phase II                         8,000      16,000      16,000      22,000
   Phase III                                                            8,000
                       ______      ______      ______      ______      ______
      Total            25,000      53,000      68,000      78,000      84,000
 (b)   Number of Women
       Beneficiaries   16,000      37,000      52,000      62,000      62,000
 (c)   Number of Bene-
       ficiaries by
       Subject
         Subjects of                2,500       2,500       2,500       2,500
         common interest
         to several
         farmers
                         1992        1993        1994        1995        1996
        subjects of farm            1,250       1,250       1,250       1,250
        management
                                    ______      ______      ______      ______
       Total                        3,750       3,750       3,750       3,750
   (d)   Technology trans-
         fer extensionists
         and supervisors
         employed by INDAP
         to carry out its
         technology transfer
         program following
         the recruitment
         procedures of
         such program
       Phase I
       Production         352        625          722         861         861
       Phase II
       Production3                    88          177         177         243
       Social3 (Women
       extensionists)      73        171          241         287         287
     Other supervisors
     employed for tech-
     nology transfer      132         182         222         257         280
                         ____      ______      ______      ______      ______
         Total            557       1,066       1,362       1,582       1,671
                           1992        1993        1994        1995      1996
   (e)   Number of Techno-
         nology Transfer
         Extensionists and
         Supervisors
         Trained:
Page  18
         Technology trans-
         fer consultants
         employed by INDAP
         to carry out its
         technology trans-
         fer program fol-
         lowing the recruit-
         ment procedures
         of such program:
         Total              430         885       1,140       1,325     1,390
       Number of consul-     41          51          61          66        66
       tant committees
       (of Instituto
       Nacional de Inves-
       tigaciones Agrope-
       cuarias and INDAP)
       to be trained in
       INDAP's local
       offices
       Number of Technology  27          34          44          55        55
       Transfer Centers
 (f)   Farmers Receiving
       Technology Trans-
       fer and Credit as
       a Percent of
       Farmers Receiving
       Credit only           32          44          56          64        74
                           1992        1993        1994        1995      1996
                                             (in thousands of dollars)
II. Credit
   (a)   Number of
         Eligible
         Farmers
        Working Capital
        Subloans          43,900      74,000      94,000     105,500   100,000
        Subloans           2,600      23,800      23,500      23,300    23,100
   (b)   Amount of
         Credit
         Operations
         approved
         Credit for
         working
         capital (in-
         cluding Work-
         ing Capital
         Sub-loans)        15,900      26,500      30,600      35,500    34,400
        Other credit
        (including
        Sub-loans)         2,200       8,300       8,200       8,100     8,000
                          ______      ______      ______      ______    ______
        Total             18,100      34,800      38,800      43,600    42,400
III. Land Titling
    (a) Number of titles   3,500      14,000      16,000      10,000
Page  19
        issued
   (b) Percentage of          6           7           8           8
       total titles to
       be received by
       women
  (c) Acquisition of        70         100
      measuring equip-
      ment (percentage)
                           1992        1993        1994        1995      1996
  (d) Computer system       65         100
      installed (per-
      centage)
  e) Computer system       40          80         100
     operational
     (percentage)
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means all the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
Page  20
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Agreement
The Subsidiary Agreement shall provide, inter alia, for the following rights and 
obligations:
(i)
the transfer to INDAP, as a grant, of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated for Parts 
A, C and D of the Project as shall be required 
by INDAP for the carrying out of 
such parts of the Project;
 
(ii)
the transfer to INDAP of such amounts as shall be necessary for 
the carrying out of 
Part B.1 of the Project and which INDAP lends 
Page  21
to Eligible Farmers pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 8, 
paragraph 4 (a), to the Loan Agreement, such amounts to 
be 
repaid by INDAP to the Borrower under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank;
(iii)
INDAP's obligation to comply with all the obligations set forth or 
referred to in 
the Loan Agreement and the schedules thereto 
relating to Parts A through D of the 
Project, including the 
obligation of INDAP to carry out Part B.1 of the Project in 
accordance with the Credit Regulations.
(iv)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to be financed 
from the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance 
with Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(B) such goods and services shall 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of Parts 
A through D of the 
Project;
(v)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, either by itself, or jointly 
with 
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, the facilities, sites, 
works, plants and construction 
included in Parts A through D of the Project, the 
operations 
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(vi)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all such information as the 
Borrower or the 
Bank shall reasonably request regarding the 
foregoing, the administration, 
operations and financial 
condition of INDAP, and the implementation of Parts A 
through D of the Project and the benefits to be derived from such parts of the 
Project;
(vii)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of 
INDAP to use the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by INDAP to 
perform any of its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement; and
 
The Subsidiary Agreement shall include, in addition, the specific goods, works and 
services to be provided by INDAP for purposes of Parts A through D of the Project.
SCHEDULE 8
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Subloans and Working Capital Subloans
1.
Currency
 
Subloans and Working Capital Subloans will be denominated in U.F.
2.
Amount
 
The amount of: (a) each Subloan shall not exceed 400 U.F. for Medium Farmers and 
150 U.F. for Small Farmers; (b) each Working Capital Subloan shall not exceed 150 U.F. 
for Medium Farmers and 50 U.F. for Small Farmers; and (c) all Subloans or Working 
Capital Subloans made in any given year to Farmers' Organizations shall not exceed an 
amount equal to 10% of the total amount of INDAP's Subloans and Working Capital 
Subloans made in such year, provided that such percentage shall be reviewed from time 
to time by the Bank, the Borrower and INDAP taking into account the performance of 
such Farmers' Organizations.
3.
Repayment Period
 
(a)
Subloans: The repayment period will not exceed 10 years including a grace 
period of 5 years.
(b)
Working Capital Subloans: The repayment period will not exceed 1 year.
 
4.
Interest Rate
 
Page  22
(a)
Each Eligible Farmer shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Subloan and/or Working Capital Subloan withdrawn and outstanding at a rate, fixed 
during the life of the Subloan or
Working Capital Subloan, at least equal to the Average Market  Rate, plus two 
percentage points.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), the term "Average Market Rate" means the 
average of the rates (as published in the Central Bank's monthly Sintesis Monetaria y 
Financiera), in the third and second months prior to the month in which the Average 
Market Rate shall be determined, paid by the Central Bank on its promissory notes with 
a maturity of about 360 days, issued in connection with indexed financial operations, 
provided that in the event that no Average Market Rate exists for promissory notes 
with such maturity, the applicable Average Market Rate shall be the average of the 
rates (as published in the Central Bank's monthly Sintesis Monetaria y Financiera), in 
the third and second months prior to the month in which the Average Market Rate is 
determined, paid by the Central Bank on its promissory notes with a maturity of about 
90 days, issued in connection with indexed financial operations, plus one
percentage point.
The Average Market Rate shall be determined on the following dates: May 1, 1993; 
May 1, 1994; November 1, 1994; May 1, 1995, and every 3 months thereafter.
(b)
INDAP may make grants to individual farmers in amounts equivalent to: (i) 
up to 20% of the Farm Investment Project cost in the case of Farm Investment Projects 
with a cost not exceeding 30 U.F.; (ii) up to 6% of the Farm Investment Project cost 
in the case of Farm Investment Projects with a cost in excess of 30 U.F. but not 
exceeding 100 U.F.; and (iii) up to 3% of the Farm Investment Project cost in the case 
of Farm Investment Projects with a cost in excess of 100 U.F. but not exceeding 150 
U.F. Such grants shall not be provided more than once to any individual farmer.
(c)
INDAP, in connection with Working Capital Subloans to individual farmers, 
may make grants to such farmers in amounts equivalent to: (i) up to 3% of the amount 
of the Working Capital Subloan in the case of a Working Capital Subloan not exceeding 
30 U.F.; and (ii) up to 1.5% of the amount of the Working Capital Subloan in the case 
of a Working Capital Subloan in excess of 30 U.F. but not exceeding 50 U.F.
(d)
INDAP may make grants to Farmers' Organizations in amounts equivalent to 
up to 10% of the Farm Investment Project cost or 60 U.F., whichever amount is lower. 
Such grants shall not be provided more than once to any Farmers' Organization.
(e)
INDAP, in connection with Working Capital Subloans to Farmers' 
Organizations, may make grants to such Farmers' Organizations in amounts equivalent to 
up to 3% of the amount of the Working Capital Subloan.
5.
Subloans and Working Capital Subloans shall be made on terms whereby INDAP shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Eligible Farmer, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and
INDAP, including, the right to:
(a)
require the Eligible Farmer to carry out and operate the Farm Investment 
Project or the activities financed by the Working Capital Subloan with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial, managerial, agricultural and environmental practices 
and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subloans and Working Capital Subloans shall be procured at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality 
and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Farm Investment Project or the 
activities to be financed by the Working Capital Subloan;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Farm Investment Project or the operation thereof, and any relevant 
Page  23
records and documents;
(d)
obtain all such information as the Bank or INDAP shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Eligible Farmer and to the benefits to be derived from the Farm 
Investment Project; and
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Farmer to the use of the 
proceeds of the Subloan or Working Capital Subloan, as the case may be, upon failure 
by such Eligible Farmer to perform its obligations under its contract with INDAP.
