Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3331-PH
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON THE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
April 7, 1981
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Peso (P)
US$1.00           =  P 7.50
US$1 million      =  P 7.5 million
P 1               =  US$ 0.133
P 1 million       =  US$ 133,000
P 1 billion       =  US$ 133.0 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           =  Asian Development Bank
ADFU          =  Apex Development Finance Unit
BOI           =  Board of Investment
Central Bank  =  Central Bank of the Philippines
CEO           =  Chief Executive Officer
DBP           = -Development Bank of the Philippines
DFCs          =  Development Finance Companies
EPZA          =  Export Processing Zone Authority
ERR           =  Economic Rate of Return
FCDUs         =  Foreign Currency Deposit Units
FRR           =  Financial Rate of Return
GSIS          =  Government Services Insurance System
GNP           =  Gross National Product
ICB           =  International Competitive Bidding
IFC           =  International Finance Corporation
IGLF          =  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
LBP           =  Land Bank of the Philippines
MOI           =  Ministry of Industry
OBUs          =  Off-Shore Banking Units
PAB           =  Philippine Amanah Bank
PDBs          =  Private Development Banks
PDCP          =  Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PFIs          =  Participating Financial Institutions
PICA          =  Private Investment Company for Asia, S.A.
PISO          =  Private Investments Systems Organization
PNB           =  Philippine National Bank
SAL           =  Structural Adjustment Loan
SEC           =  Securities and Exchange Commission
SMI           =  Small and Medium Industries
UNDP          =  United Nations Development Program
USAID         =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEARS
January-December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON THE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .......................................                     1
Critical Role of Industry in the Economy ....................                    1
Policies and Incentives Contributing to
Present Structure of Manufacturing Sector   ....              ............     2
The Present Structure and Problems of the
Manufacturing Sector ......................................                    3
Industrial Development Program ..............................                    5
The Policy Reform Program ...................................                    6
Anticipated Effects of Policy Reforms on the
Manufacturing Sector ......................................                   11
2.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ........................................                   12
Overview        ......................... ..........................            12
Institutions in the Financial System .... ............                          14
The Financial Markets   ...................             ...................     16
The Financial Sector Reforms of 1980   ......... ..             ............    17
Future Evolution         ......................     ......................      23
3.  BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....                   25
The Bank-s Past Industrial Lending ..........................                   25
The Rationale and Strategy for Future Bank Lending   ...             ......     26
Project Objectives   .........................................                  27
4.  THE PROJECT         .........................     ........................       28
Project Description   ...... ..............            ....................     28
Institutional Arrangements for the Project   ........              .........    29
The Project Procedures .................         ..     ...................     32
Resource Requirements and Allocations  ..........         ..     ...........    35
5.  PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIs)  ....... .. ........                 36
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) ...                   36
Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO)  ..........                  39
The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) ...............                   42
Commercial Banks                             ..                                 48
Investment Houses                             ..                               48
This report was prepared by Messrs. Khalid Siraj, I. Ahmed, E.K. Hawkins,
B. Cu Kok and J.B. Shim following a field appraisal of the project in
August-September 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
6.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....    ........................    49
Justification and Risks .......    ..............................    50
Features of the Loan         ........................................    51
Agreements and Understandings Reached
at Negotiations ........    ...................................    52
Recommendation        ..............................................    53
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Philippine Government's Statement of Policy on the Future Evolution of
the Financial Sector.
2.  Operating Policy Guidelines of the Apex Development Finance Unit,
Central Bank of the Philippines.
3.  Outline of ADFU's Guidelines on Procurments.
4.  Private Development Corporation of the Philippines:  A Review of
Institutional, Operational and Financial Aspects.
5.  Philippine Investment Systems Organization:  A Review of Institutional,
Operational and Financial Aspects.
6. Development Bank of the Philippines: A Review of Institutional,
Operational and Financial Aspects.
7.  Supporting Tables.
T-1 Composition of Gross Value Added in Manufacturing, 1970, 1975 and
1979.
T-2 Projected Macroeconomic Performance: With and Without Structural
Adjustment.
T-3 Total Assets of the Philippine Financial System, 1974-80 (June 30).
T-4 Status of the Bank's Industrial Lending to the Philippines, as of
December 31, 1980.
T-5A Characteristics of Subprojects Financed Under the Bank's DFC Loans
by Sectors and Regions, as of September 30, 1980.
T-5B Characteristics of Subprojects Financed under Bank's SMI Loans.
T-6 Comparative Selected Data on Commercial Banks Identified as Potential
PFIs.
T-7 Comparative Selective Data on Investment Houses Identified as
Potential PFIs.
T-8 Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed
Bank Loan.



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. The Industrial Sector /1
Critical Role of Industry in the Economy
1.01      Historically, the rate and pattern of industrial growth have been
unsatisfactory and continue to be a significant cause of the country s eco-
nomic problems. The industrial sector has been a large net burden on the
balance of payments, relying heavily on imported capital, equipment and
intermediate goods, but exporting very little. Nontraditional manufactured
exports have increased rapidly in recent years, but export expansion has been
concentrated on a few items and backward linkages with the rest of the economy
have been limited. The efficiency and labor intensity of industrial invest-
ment have also been less than satisfactory. Expansion of the economy's real
output has been low relative to the high level of capital formation in the
1970s, reflecting in part the low efficiency of industrial investment. Due
to the slow expansion of industrial employment, an excessively high
proportion (85%) of incremental labor has been absorbed by the agriculture
and services sectors resulting in low, or even declining, value added per
worker in some areas and sectors. A primary cause of the balance of payments
problem, low investment efficiency and low labor intensity has been the
distortive effect of past trade, industrial and financial policies on the
allocation and use of capital by domestic market-oriented manufacturing and
service industries.
1.02      Improvement in the performance of the industrial sector is crucial
to attaining the Philippines- development objectives. Manufacturing is the
key to accelerating macro-income, employment and export growth; it is also
important for restraining growth in imports of capital and intermediate goods
and for using capital and foreign exchange resources efficiently. During the
past year, the Government has taken a number of important steps to deal with
long-standing structural problems. This chapter briefly highlights past
policies which have been responsible for the evolution of the current indus-
trial sector and the present structure and problems of the industrial sector.
A presentation of the country-s industrial strategy and planned development
program follows, including a discussion of the comprehensive reforms in
industry and trade policy which the Government is implementing to bring about
fundamental structural adjustment.
/1 The industrial sector is normally defined to include mining and quarry-
ing, construction, public utilities and manufacturing. The last of
these is the focus of this chapter.



- 2 -
1.03      Planned financial reforms will play an important complementary role
in improving the performance of the industrial sector. The Government is in
the process of restructuring the financial system to make it more flexible and
responsive to the country's long-term development needs. A review of the
Philippine financial system, relevant problems and the reforms is given in
Chapter 2 of this report.
Policies and Incentives Contributing to Present Structure of Manufacturing
Sector
1.04      Postwar Industrialization and Trade Policies (1950-70).  In the
1950s and 1960s, import substitution was the major objective of the Govern-
ment's industrialization policy. Strict foreign exchange controls and
restrictions on imports of nonessential goods, in response to balance of
payments problems, resulted in the development of strongly protected domestic
consumer goods industries and made imported raw materials, intermediate goods
and capital goods available at artifically low prices due to the higher
valuation of domestic currency that the controls permitted.  Throughout the
1960s, trade policy continued to favor import substitution in consumer goods
production with the result that by the end of the decade, the manufacturing
sector was heavily dependent on imported inputs and there were virtually no
manufactured exports other than traditional processed primary commodities.
Moreover, the artifically low prices of capital goods, in combination with
high protection, led to inadequate employment creation and allowed consider-
able inefficiency of investment reflected in a high capital/output ratio.
The Philippines has an incremental capital/output ratio about 35% higher than
neighboring Asian countries which have roughly comparable patterns of
investment.
1.05      Industrialization Policy in the 1970s.  Faced with a rapid deterio-
ration of the balance of payments, due in part to the structurally unsound
pattern of manufacturing growth, the Government realized in the late 1960s
that exports in general, and manufactured exports in particular, needed to be
more actively encouraged. Steps were also needed to accelerate industrial
output and employment growth and to encourage more efficient use of resources
by domestic industries. Consequently, an Industrial Incentives Act was
introduced in 1967, which provided fiscal incentives (e.g., tariff exemption
for imported equipment, accelerated depreciation, reinvestment allowances)
for industrial investment in preferred areas. The Act also created a Board
of Investment (BOI) to determine the preferred areas eligible for investment
incentives through an Investment Priorities Plan and to administer the grant-
ing of incentives. Subsequently, an Export Incentives Act was introduced in
1970 which granted fiscal benefits (e.g., tax credit for import duties and
domestic taxes paid on inputs) to export-oriented industries.
1.06      Additional related policy measures included floating and subsequent
depreciation of the exchange rate in 1970, and the introduction of various
export promotion measures designed to give selected exporters of nontradi-
tional manufactures access to duty-free imports. Initial steps were taken in



- 3 -
1973 to reform the tariff system by simplifying the rate structure and redu-
cing the rate spread. Various programs for the promotion of small- and
medium-scale industries were also adopted. Although manufactured export
performance has improved significantly as a result of these measures, the
performance of home industries /1 has remained inadequate and overall sector
employment and output growth have improved only marginally.
1.07      The Incentive System and its Effects.  The key instrument of the
import substitution strategy discussed above has been tariff and trade policy.
High tariffs and import restrictions have led to an inefficient use and
allocation of resources, particularly capital, and have generally imposed an
effective penalty on export production. Resources were channelled into
industries mainly producing consumer goods for the domestic market which
enjoyed high levels of protection. Fiscal and financial incentives also
promoted inefficient use and allocation of resources. Fiscal incentives
granted to industries without adequate attention given to labor intensity of
subsectors have had a significant capital-cheapening effect, encouraging
both an industry mix and choice of technology within industries that are
excessively capital intensive. The complicated and burdensome process of
administering the fiscal incentives has also effectively favored relatively
large capital-intensive firms with representatives in Manila that can absorb
the additional overhead costs. The financial system has further reinforced
the capital-intensive bias of investment incentives. Bank lending rates
have been subject to administrative ceilings which have tended to reduce the
user cost of capital for selected firms eligible to borrow. Due to the
inability of the banks to align interest rates with risk, other rationing
devices (such as excessive reliance on collateral and preferential treatment
for selected customers) have been unduly utilized by the financial sector to
the detriment of the smaller, less well-established firms. To the extent
that the investment incentives and financial policies de facto discriminated
against small- and medium-size enterprises and labor-intensive industry,
they indirectly discouraged regional dispersal since these industries are
ones that might be expected to locate outside Metro Manila. In addition,
both the fiscal incentive and banking systems are centrally administered from
Manila, making it more difficult for entrepreneurs in other regions to avail
of the fiscal benefits.
The Present Structure and Problems of the Manufacturing Sector
1.08      The manufacturing sector accounts for 25% of GDP (1979), 30% of
fixed investment and 12% of total employment. Food processing is the largest
industry, contributing one-quarter of total manufacturing value added. Other
major industries are chemicals, petroleum and coal, basic metal industries,
textiles, and tobacco processing (Annex 7, T-1). Instead of being a dynamic
/1 Home industries are those industries producing for the domestic market.



-4-
leading sector, manufacturing grew relatively slowly during the last decade
at 6.5% p.a. The structure of Philippine manufacturing is highly dualistic.
The "unorganized" sector, defined as manufacturing establishments with less
than five workers, employs nearly two thirds of the manufacturing work force
but produces less than 5% of total manufacturing value added. The
"organized" or "factory" sector produces most of the value added but
provides only liraited employment opportunities. Home industries account for
more than 80% of total manufacturing output, of which consumer goods
constitute over 50%.
1.09      Manufactured exports are dominated by traditional mineral and
agro-processing industries.  Considerable progress was made during the last
decade in increasing the processing of primary products such as copra, logs,
and copper and thereby achieving a higher percentage of domestic value added.
Exports of traditional manufactured products account for about half of total
Philippine exports. Primary export processing industries are mainly large
scale and capital intensive. In response to the various export promotion
measures introduced in the early 1970s (paras. 1.05-1.06), industries
producing such nontraditional exports as garments, electronics, handicrafts
and footwear expanded rapidly. Their exports rose from just under $200
million in 1972 to about $2.0 billion in 1980. In contrast with primary
export product processing, nontraditional export industries are more varied in
size and are relatively labor intensive. Employment in these industries
increased tenfold during the decade from 20,000 to over 200,000 workers.
However, due to the high cost and low quality of domestic inputs,
nontraditional exports are largely dependent on imported inputs and, as a
result, have remained enclaves with only few backward linkages with the
domestic manufacturing sector. Consequently, value added is only 25% of
output in these industries.
1.10      Employment creation and regional dispersion continue to be two
major problems confronting the manufacturing sector. Labor absorption in
manufacturing has been low because of the relatively low growth rate of the
sector and the capital intensity of "organized" home industries and commodity
export processing industries. Employment in manufacturing has remained
virtually constant at 10-12% of total employment since the early 1950s.
Recently, employment in manufacturing has expanded at an average annual rate
of about 3%, creating a mere 40,000 jobs and absorbing less than one tenth
of the annual increase in the labor force. Employment in the dominant
"unorganized" sector has expanded by only 1.1% annually.  The dependence of
import-substituting consumer goods industries on imported inputs has created
a strong incentive for these industries to locate near Manila, the country's
major port and consumer market. Provision of better infrastructure,
investment and financial incentives, and centralized government administra-
tion have added to the attractiveness of Manila. Excluding the resource-
based industries, nearly 90% of all manufacturing value added is produced in
and around the capital city.



5
Industrial Development Program
1.11      Since the late 1960s, the necessity of modifying the import-
substitution industrial and trade policies of the previous two decades has
been increasingly recognized in the Philippines. A number of reforms in the
early 1970s marked the start of a more outward-looking policy (para. 1.05 and
1.06). In 1977, the Government commissioned a study of its industrial
policies by a University of the Philippines team which indicated that the
chief causes of poor industrial performance were the highly protective trade
regime and the capital-intensive bias of investment promotion policies./l
Simultaneously, the Ministry of Industry (MOI) had studies carried out of
several industries that were felt to need restructuring. The shared concern
of the Bank and the Government about the performance of the industrial sector
led to the subsequent undertaking of a Bank industrial sector mission in early
1979 followed by a joint IMF-Bank financial sector mission to look at
interrelated questions of banking reform and industrial finance (para. 2.20).
The reports of these two missions /2 confirmed the findings of the Govern-
ment's own studies and helped to formulate strategies for industrial and
financial development.
1.12      Industrialization Strategy.  The Philippine national economic
development strategy was set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the
period 1978-82. The Plan's major objectives include: (a) accelerating the
rate of growth; (b) generating sufficient productive employment opportunities
for the rapidly growing labor force; (c) providing for the basic needs of the
population; and (d) reducing social, regional and economic disparities. The
industrialization strategy in support of this plan aims at increased
processing of domestic raw materials, continued increases in exports of
nontraditional manufactures, accelerated employment generation by small- and
medium-scale industries and the implementation of selected large-scale
projects. Broadly, the Government seeks to develop an industrial structure
which is based on the country's comparative advantage with respect to labor
costs and raw material availability and which is efficient and competitive by
international standards. To achieve these objectives, both continued export
expansion and restructuring of home industries are necessary as neither,
alone, is likely to be sufficient.
/1 Romeo M. Bautista, John H. Power and Associates-, Industrial Promotion
Policies in the Philippines (Manila, Philippines, The Philippine Insti-
tute of Development Studies, 1979). This study was partly financed under
the Bank Loan No. 1374-PH for the Third Education Project.
/2 IBRD Reports No. 2513-PH (in 3 volumes) and 2546-PH, entitled Industrial
Development Strategy and Policies in the Philippines, and The Philippines:
Aspects of the Financial Sector, dated October 29, 1979, and October 1,
1979, respectively.



1.13      By strengthening export promotion measures, continued expansion of
manufactured exports can be maintained with increased backward linkages and
greater participation by industries, firms and regions.  The Philippines is in
a potentially strong competitive position to further expand its labor
intensive exports as its wage rates and labor productivity levels compare
favorably with those of its international competitors. Furthermore, marketing
channels have been established and entrepreneurs have gained significant
experience in exporting.
1.14      As home industries account for more than 80% of manufacturing
investment, output and employment, an improvement in their performance is
necessary if the manufacturing sector as a whole is to make more efficient
use of capital and foreign exchange resources and create substantially more
employment.  Reorienting trade and investment incentives to improve capital
efficiency and allocate investment to more labor-intensive lines of produc-
tion will both save resources and generate more employment per peso of
investment.  The resources saved, in turn, can be devoted to either raising
investment or expanding consumption and the domestic market more rapidly.
Furthermnore, if home industries are encouraged to become more competitive
by international standards and to develop in line with the country-s compara-
tive advantage, they should also be able to export an increasing share of
their output, either directly or indirectly.
The Policy Reform Program
1.15      To help implement its industrial objectives, the Government
recently outlined its industrialization strategy in combination with a policy
reform program in a Statement of Industrial Policy for the 1980s. This
statement provided the basis for the Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL I) of $200 million which was approved in September 1980./l
1.16      The policy reform program includes staged reforms over a five-year
period to correct the import substitution and capital-intensive biases of
existing industrial and trade policies, and covers the following five major
areas: (a) export incentives and promotion measures; (b) tariff reform, trade
liberalization, and complementary measures; (c) investment incentives and
their administration; (d) industrial restructuring; and (e) major industrial
projects. Not all the elements of the industrial policy reform can be imple-
mented simultaneously. Hence, the Government-s initial policy reforms have
been focused primarily on trade policy (i.e., export incentives and tariff
reform) since it has been chiefly responsible for the disappointing perfor-
mance of the industrial sector. Although some progress has been made in the
other three areas (investment incentives, industrial restructuring, and major
industrial projects), major advances in these areas will take a number of
/I Yor details of the structural adjustment program, refer to the
President's Report No. P2872-PH, dated August 21, 1980.



years to achieve, and will form the basis of future dialogue between the Bank
and the Government. Under the SAL I, a technical assistance component of $5
million has been established. The Government plans to draw on this component
to help finance the various studies and training programs which will be
necessary to support and implement the policy reform program. Highlights of
the reform program are discussed below.
1.17      Export Incentives and Promotion Measures.  Starting in 1979, the
Government initiated steps to strengthen the export regime by: (a) streng-
thening and broadening fiscal incentives for export production and trading;
(b) simplifying import/export procedures; (c) liberalizing bonded manufac-
turing warehouse arrangements for exporters; (d) improving export financing
facilities; and (e) strengthening institutions that promote exports and
international trade. With regard to fiscal incentives, in October 1979, the
Government decided to make export industries eligible for all those fiscal
incentives that were earlier available to only home industries and increased
the coverage of fiscal incentives available to export traders and trading
houses. In addition, to improve export/import procedures, the Government
adopted appropriate administrative measures to simplify the hitherto
time-consuming duty drawback system and burdensome export documentation
requirements. The Government also plans, with the assistance of IMF, to
introduce standard costings/allowances for the tax credit/duty drawback on
imported inputs into export production. In order to make bonded
manufacturing warehouses more generally available to both large and small
exporters, the BOI has improved its control procedures and eased the
eligibility requirements. A Bonded Export Marketing Board was also created
in October 1979 to promote bonded manufacturing facilities and to widen the
range of products and industries using such facilities. With regard to
export financing, the availability of credit for working capital
requirements of export industries has been limited in the past, particularly
for smaller and nontraditional exporters. To correct this shortcoming, in
April 1979 the Central Bank suitably modified its rediscount facility. In
addition, the Government empowered the Philippine Export and Foreign Loan
Guarantee Corporation to guarantee loans to the export sector. The Government
is also studying possibilities of improving the availability of medium-term
credit for export industries and improving the participation of the commercial
banking sector in extending medium-term export financing, particularly to the
smaller and newly established export industries. Finally, the Government,
through various administrative measures adopted in 1979 and 1980, has made
important institutional improvements to better serve the needs of export
industries. These measures include: reorganization of the Ministry of Trade;
supporting the establishment of export trading companies which would, inter
alia, extend export finance to their small-scale suppliers; and broadening the
charter of the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) to enable it to plan,
develop and manage 12 new industrial estates.



-8 -
i.18      Tariff Reform and Complementary Measures.  The objectives of the
Government's tariff reform are to lower the overall level of protection in
the economy and to even out the spread in tariff rates within and between
industry sectors. The reform will establish a system of nominal tariff rates
between 10% and 50% and should bring most effective rates of protection within
a range of 10-80%. Since the continuation of import licensing would work
against the aim of the tariff reform, liberalization of licensing will be
undertaken simultaneously. Subsectoral restructuring programs will also be
initiated to help existing industries adjust to the policy changes
(para. 1.25).
1.19      In August 1980, the Government legislated a comprehensive tariff
reform covering 75% of the line items in the Tariff Code. In respect of
the remaining 25% of the line items, legislation is expected to be passed in
the first half of 1981./l Starting in January 1981, tariff rates for 14
important industry subsectors will be realigned (over a four-year period to
cushion their impact) to achieve greater uniformity in protection and the
current peak tariff rates for all other industries will be reduced (in two
steps on January 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982) from 100% and 70% to a ceiling
rate of 50%. The reform will reduce overall effective rates of protection for
the economy from 36% to 23% and for the manufacturing sector from 44% to 29%.
The movement toward greater uniformity in effective rates will reduce
allocative distortions and provide a more even incentive for import
substitution. The reduction in the higher rates of protection afforded to
some industries should, in the long-run, lead to increases in competitiveness
and efficiency and help strengthen the linkages between home and export
industries.
1.20      While import licensing was maintained for balance of payments
reasons, it is in some cases a stronger protective device than the applicable
tariff. Many of the products on which peak tariffs are being lowered, as
well as the products of 13 out of 14 subsectors for which tariff revisions are
being made, are subject to licensing. As continued import licensing would
defeat the tariff reform's objectives of fostering greater competitiveness
of domestic industry and encouraging stronger linkages with exports, in
August 1980, the Government adopted a plan for removal of import licensing
restrictions. The liberalization of licensing will proceed in stages in
coordination with the tariff reform to allow local industries time to
adjust and to spread the balance of payments effect over the four-year
tariff reform period.
1.21      Although the revenue loss from the tariff reform is expected to be
small, increases in indirect taxes are desirable to help constrain private
consumption and the expansion of imports that could result from lowering
tariffs and relaxing import licensing. The Government, however, will
/1 The Government is in the process of reviewing the remaining 25% of
line items so as to complete the realignments of nominal tariff rates
within the 10-50% range in all subsectors.



consider revision in indirect taxes if they become necessary in the future
as tariffs are lowered and import restrictions eased.
1.22      As tariffs are lowered, the exchange rate wili become increasingly
important as an instrument for promoting efficient resource allocation.
Furthermore, while the proposed tariff and trade policy reforms will
ultimately have beneficial effects on the balarnce of payments, the time path
of the adjustment process and the short-term effects on the balance of
payments will depend greatly on exchange rate policy. The Government
intends to maintain a flexible exchange rate policy conisistent with basic
market prices, taking into consideration the need to keep the current
account deficit at a sustainable level as well as the desire to prevent
disorderly fluctuations in the exchange rate. The exchange rate issue will
be a matter of close review by the Gov'ernment, IMF and the bank.
1.23       Investment Incentives and Promotion Policy.  Analytical work on
investment incentives and promotion policies was started after that on export
promotion and tariff reform. Although some urogress has been made; major
improvements in investment incentives and their adrministration will require
sustained effort over time. Reforms in these areas are related to removing
the capital bias of fiscal incentives, improving the allocation system,
adopting appropriate policies towards regional dispersion of industry and
streamlining of administrative procedures for granting of incentives.
1.24       With regard to the capital-intensive bias of the incentives, MOI/BO0
is studying the feasibility of introducing a labor-favoring package of
incentives.  The feasibility of eliminating the tariff exemption on imported
equipment as an investment incentive for firms oriented towards the domestic
market will be examined in the future. In 1979, 1401/BOI made significant
changes in its processes of priority determination and project evaluation,
thus improving the allocation system. Revised guidelines were adopted to
reduce the number of industries on the "overcrowded industries" list. In
March 1980, MOI/BOI formulated proposals for making greater use of economic
analysis in priority determination and project evaluation. In order to
improve the regional dispersal of industry, a law was enacted in May 1980 to
provide additional incentives for investments in the underdeveloped areas of
the country. In addition, all Government financial institutions are to give
priority to projects in the less developed areas.  The Government is studying
the feasibility of introducing additional measures to encourage industries to
locate outside the Metro Manila area. Improved infrastructure would be
provided in the regions through the national export processing zone/industrial
estate program. In order to better implement and administer the above
changes, MOI/BOI has also streamlined some of the procedures for the
administration of incentives, reducing the paperwork requirements for
registration and cutting-down the processing time for the evaluation of
projects. Further measures being considered by the Government are: (a) review
of the staffing requirements necessary to complete the reorganization of
MOI/BOI and implement improved procedu res; and (b) improvements in BOI-s



- 10 -
management information systema for monitoring the performance of
BOI-registered projects.
1.25      Industrial Restructuring.  Subsectoral restructuring programs,
which would set the course for the development of a particular industry over
a five-year period, are to be implemented concomitantly with trade liberali-
zations and improved investment promotion procedures. The programs would
specify the direction of a subsector's development, government policies and
the role of the private sector, and the instruments required to implement
the program (e.g., incentives, level of protection, financial and technical
assistance) and would be designed to help existing industries produce at
lower costs, improve efficiency and otherwise increase their competitiveness.
Sectoral restructuring would constitute "adjustment" assistance to industries
affected by the tariff reform and would emphasize positive measures to
increase competitiveness rather than the continuation of negative protective
measures that retarded development.  Programs for restructuring the cement
and textile industries are now underway. Additional industries have been
tentatively identified as needing restructuring programs, however, much
remains to be done to give focus and content to these programs. The
development of small- and medium-scale industries (SMI) can contribute to
creating employment, generating exports, utilizing more domestically
available resources and stimulating development outside of Metro M'lanila.
Existing SMI development programs, however, suffer from a number of
shortcomings.  Although the overall availability of credit to SMI has
improved, the various credit programs have remained highly concentrated in
the Metro Manila/Southern Tagalog areas. Working and venture capital
finance is not readily available to SMI and technological and skill
development programs for SMI need to be strengthened. MOI is in the process
of actively formulating programs which would broaden the scope of its
assistance to SMI.
1.26      Major Industrial Projects.  In September 1979, a program of 11 major
industrial projects was announced by President Marcos. In October 1979, the
National Development Company was reorganized and revitalized to act as the
corporate arm of the Government in initiating priority industrial projects.
The 11 projects are expected to contribute to technological deepening and
import substitution in the production of intermediate goods. The Government
is taking an active role in promoting the projects because they are typically
large, involve new technology, have relatively long gestation periods, and
hence are considered risky by private entrepreneurs. As there are multiple
demands on the country-s limited capital resources, initiation of the
projects would be phased over a five-year time period. To the extent
possible, foreign capital and export credits would be utilized to finance
the projects.
1.27      The 11 major industrial projects will have a significant effect on
the outcome of the overall industrial development program. Much will depend
on care and good judgment in preparing and carrying out the projects, and



- 11 -
project design will need to emphasize foreign exchange earning or saving
capacity. The Government intends to continue a prudent and flexible approach
towards the implementation of the major projects, establishing them only after
rigorous economic and financial analyses have convincingly demonstrated their
viability.
Anticipated Effects of Policy Reforms on the Manufacturing Sector
1.28      The policy reforms discussed in the preceding paragraphs have
concentrated on the rationalization of trade policies. The reforms already
completed represent a major step towards a freer and a more open trade
regime. They will make possible the operation of home industry in a much
more efficient and competitive environment and encourage productive
resources to be allocated to areas of activity in which the Philippines has
an existing or potential comparative advantage. The reforms will gradually
remove the tools which enabled inefficient operations to survive and
sometimes thrive, to the economic detriment of the country. Subsequent
phases of the reform program will require large inputs of staff and management
time and the continued full support of BOI/MOI at the highest levels. In view
of the Government's strong commitment to the program and its performance to
date, significant further progress is likely over the next few years.
1.29      The policy reform program should lead to a substantial restruc-
turing of the industrial sector and an improvement in its performance.  The
combined effect of the policy reforms aimed at domestic and export industries
would be to accelerate the growth of manufacturing value added (from 6.5% to
over 9% in 1985-90) (Annex 7, T-2). Higher output growth, together with an
increased employment elasticity, would double the annual rate of employment
creation (from 3% to 6%), so that the manufacturing sector would generate
150,000 jobs per year and account for about one-fourth of the new jobs
required in the economy as a whole.
1.30      Domestic market-oriented and nontraditional export industries would
each generate about half of the projected increment in manufacturing output
and employment growth. Nontraditional manufactures would play a central role
in sustaining the country-s export drive, while home industry would contribute
to reductions in the capital/output ratio and the import elasticity. The
recent strengthening of export incentives and promotion measures should permit
the nontraditional manufactured export drive to be continued with increased
backward linkages and participation by more firms, industries and regions.
Given the projected growth in overseas markets, the volume of nontraditional
manufactured exports could potentially grow at an average rate of 16% p.a.
over the next decade, with employment in these export industries growing at a
slightly lower rate. In the absence of the measures being taken to strengthen
export incentives, Philippines export performance would have been closer to
the projected average growth for developing countries of 11% and employment
creation would be correspondingly lower. The reforms affecting home industry
would help raise its employment elasticity. Greater labor intensity in home
industries, together with the projected growth in nontraditional manufactured
exports, would also benefit small- and medium-scale industries because of



- 12 -
their comparative advantage in labor-intensive sectors.  This, in turn, would
stimulate manufacturing activities in outlying regions where labor costs are
lower, and reinforce the locational effects of planned infrastructure
investment in these regions.
1.31      Without the policy reform program, manufacturing performance would
have continued along the lines of the 1970s. The average annual growth of
manufacturing value added would have fallen (from 6.5% to 5.4%) in the late
1980s primarily because of increasing constraints imposed by high cost and
inefficient production for a limited domestic market. The number of jobs
added in manufacturing each year would be 70,000 lower than would be created
with the reforms, and although nontraditional manufactured exports would grow
at a respectable average rate of about 13% p.a., they would have been nearly
$2 billion lower in real terms at the end of the decade.
2.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
2.01      The proposed project is closely associated with the development
of the financial sector.  This Chapter is divided into four main sections:
a brief overview outlining the historical development and current problems
in the financial sector, a description of the major financial institutions,
a review of the recent reform measures and the need for and direction of
future reforms.
Overview
2.02      The financial sector in the Philippines is relatively well developed
and, in many respects, the financial system has served the country well. The
external creditworthiness of the Philippines has been firmly established,
starting from a precarious and difficult balance of payments position in the
early 1970s. The shock of the sharp and extended deterioration in the terms
of trade (following the oil price increases in 1973-74) was weathered without
disturbance to the monetary system. The banking system was strengthened by
increases in capitalization mandated by the reforms of 1972,/l a sophisticated
money market was developed and a basis was laid, through creation of Off-Shore
Banking Units (OBUs) and Foreign Currency Deposit Units (FCDUs), for linkages
with the international banking system. At the same time the banking system
was strengthened through substantial improvements in the professional
management of institutions, general upgrading of operational standards and by
a tighter control on its operations and management by the Central Bank.
/1  These reforms were formulated by a joint IMF-Central Bank Survey
Commission and were aimed at strengthening of commercial banks through
increase in their share capital, provision of enhanced regulatory and
supervisory powers to the Central Bank and statutory separation of
commercial banking from investment banking.



- 13 -
2.03      The rapid evolution of the financial system in the 1970s resulted in
universal responsiveness of the system to the needs of the economy for mobili-
zation of savings in financial form. Total gross assets of the financial
sector grew by 11% (in real terms) between 1974 and 1979 (Annex 7, T-3) while
real GNP grew at 7%. The range of financial assets increased and there was a
clear response on the part of the savers to keep a larger proportion of their
savings in financial form.
2.04      Gross domestic savings have been relatively high in the Philippines
in the recent past, but Government's objective is to further increase it from
24% to 27% of GNP over the next ten years to reduce its reliance on foreign
savings. While all sectors are expected to increase their rate of savings,
the household sector share is expected to rise from 9% of GNP in 1978 to over
11% in the 1980s. This will imply a marked increase in the savings effort in
a sector which is already shouldering the task of financing a large part of
the country's investment requirements. Not only is there the need to increase
the absolute rate of savings, there is also general agreement that it would be
desirable that an increasing proportion of such savings should be available
and intermediated on a longer-term basis. Long-term peso funds have been
particularly scarce in the past and the main shortcoming of the financial
system is that it has failed to provide adequate long-term finance. As the
country continues to industrialize, the needs of industry for such longer-term
finance will become particularly imperative, although other sectors, such as
agriculture, mining, and housing will also require such financing.
2.05      As the economy has grown in size and complexity, the Government
has become increasingly aware of the need to make adjustments in the financial
system to enable it to respond better to present and future needs. Histori-
cally, the financial system has grown in a rather ad hoc fashion and
specialized institutions were set up in response to specifically identified
needs. The Central Bank carefully guided and regulated the financial system
and the functions and sources of funding of various classes of banking
institutions were limited by administrative regulations. The tendency to
specialization was reinforced by the implementation of the reforms of 1972,
which reaffirmed and made more definitive the separation of regular banking
activities - the normal task of commercial banks - from investment banking
activities, notably merchandizing, distribution and underwriting of security
issues. Commercial banks were prohibited from the acquisition of equities,
other than in "allied undertakings." Specialization led to considerable
fragmentation among institutions, limited competition by segmenting markets
and reduced the responsiveness of the system to changing needs and demands.
It also did little to lengthen maturities and promote longer-term lending and
borrowing.
2.06      At the same time the incentive system has not been geared to
mobilize sufficient savings, encourage longer maturities and allocate
resources where they were most needed. Nominal interest rates have been
closely regulated and during periods of relatively high inflation, as in 1979
and 1980, real interest rates have been essentially negative. Low real
interest rates have been one of the major factors contributing to



14 -
relatively inefficient and capital intensive investment. i4oreover, the
absence of adequate differentials between short- and long-term rates inhibited
longer-term savings and stood in the way of banks investing in longer
term obligations.
2.07      The problems in interest rate structure were aggravated by
Central Bank rediscounting policies. The Central Bank has maintained a
complex series of rediscount windows at concessional rates to support what
it considers to be "priority" areas of investment. This has frequently
resulted in misallocation of resources, encouraging overinvestment in some
areas while other sectors of the economy, such as smaller manufacturing
enterprises and housing were starved for investment funds. At the same time,
"lender-of-last-resort" discounting facilities have been practically non-
existent which accentuated the liquidity preference of banking institutions
and compelled them to match the maturities of their assets and liabilities.
Institutions in the Financial System
2.08      Controlling the entire financial system is the Central Bank of the
Philippines. It possesses extensive regulatory powers over the financial
sector, formulates and operates the monetary policy of the Government,
provides loans and discounts to financial institutions in accordance with the
imperatives of monetary stabilization and development policy and exercises
wide powers to supervise, inspect and discipline financial institutions.
2.09      The financial system comprises the banking sector, consisting of
commercial banks, rural banks, thrift banks, private development banks and
specialized Government-owned banks, and the nonbanking sector, comprised of
investment houses and finance companies. In addition, there are the social
security institutions consisting of private insurance companies, the
Government Services Insurance System (GSIS) and the Social Security System
(SSS). A brief review of the various types of institutions is given below.
2.10      Commercial Banks.  At the center of the financial system are the
commercial banks, both domestic and foreign, which command more than half the
resources in the financial system. At the end of 1979 there were 26 private
domestic commercial banks, two Government or semi-Government banks and four
branches of foreign banks. The Government-owned Philippine National Bank
(PNB) and the top ten private commercial banks together commanded nearly 70%
of the total resources of the commercial banking system. In contrast, there
were several banks which had a low capital base and which possessed small
resources that were often expensively mobilized, evidencing need for either
strengthening of their capital bases or consolidation through mergers.
2.11      At the end of 1979, the deposit structure of commercial banks
comprised 20% demand deposits, 37% savings deposits and 42% time deposits.
Although time deposits as a percentage of total deposits more than doubled
between 1969 and 1979, the resources of commercial banks (as is normal with
such institutions) remained essentially of a short-term character and
maturities were rarely in excess of two years. Longer term deposits have in



- 15 -
the past been inhibited by restrictions imposed by the Central Bank on
interest rates, and statutory restrictions and disincentives.  Commercial bank
lending has been predominantly short-term (usually not exceeding one year).
2.12      Rural Banks have so far had a unitary structure and had for their
main function extension of production credits to small farmers and loans to
rural enterprises. by 1979 their number exceeded 1,000 and they covered a
wide geographical area. Although they provided 16% of all institutional
agricultural credit, their assets comprised only 2% of the total assets of the
financial system. Besides, their powers were severely restricted as they
could provide finance only to small farm families cultivating not more than 50
hectares of land, small merchants whose capital did not exceed P 50,000 and
cooperatives. Their resource mobilization effect has been meager; they have
been heavily dependent on funding from the Government and have little capacity
for designing projects or undertaking project evaluation. Notwithstanding
these deficiencies, the rural banks constitute an important element in the
Government's rural development strategy and have in the past served as
secondary channels for Bank agricultural lending.
2.13      Thrift Banks.  There are three categories of thrift banks:  stock
savings and loan associations which extend credit for not more than 12
months, savings and mortgage banks which invest depositors' monies in bonds
or loans for housing and private development banks (PDBs) which provide
medium- and long-term loans to small- and medium-scale enterprises. The
resources of PDBs are partly derived from time and savings deposits and
substantially from loans from the Government-owned, Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP). The PDBs have essentially been undynamic institutions but
in view of their geographical diffusion they possess potential for being
reorganized into effective vehicles for SMI and rural industries financing.
2.14      Specialized Banks.  These are Government-owned institutions.  The
major specialized institutions are the DBP, the Land Bank of the Philippines
(LBP), both of which have received loans from the Bank and are capitalized
at a high level, and the Philippine Amanah Bank (PAB). DBP performs a
variety of functions and finances both industrial and agricultural enterprises
as well as large and small enterprises in these sectors. The LBP was
established mainly to finance the acquisition of landed estates by the
Government as a part of the land reform program and PAB provides credit to
Muslim communities in Mindanao. The DBP is an institution of particular
importance as its resources constitute nearly 11% of the total resources of
the Philippines financial sector and it is the principal source of long-term
credit in the Philippines.  Notwithstanding substantial improvement in its
operational standards and staff quality resulting from the Bank's financial
and technical assistance to it, much yet needs to be done to assist DBP's
development into a competent professional institution. The size of its
development financing and the reach and diversity of its operations make it a
significant factor in the Philippine financial system. As a prospective
participating financial institution in the proposed Bank loan, its
organization and operations are more fully dealt with later in this report
(Chapter 5).



- 16 -
2.15      Investment Houses.  The "rationale" for the establishment of invest-
ment houses was to underwrite corporate securities, but in retrospect this
was an objective which they have not been able to fulfill adequately.  They
have instead been active in short-term money market operations and have
derived resources through the issuance of "deposit substitutes" of short-term
maturity. As such, they have been in direct competition with commercial banks
in the mobilization of short-term resources and have almost exclusively used
their resources for financing short-term needs, which also are catered to by
commercial banks. The combined resources of investment houses at the end of
1979 constituted no more than 3% of the total resources of the financial
system. In the context of investment houses, mention needs to be made of
Private Development Copporation of the Philippines (PDCP) and the Philippine
Investments Systems Organization (PISO). Although they are licensed
investment houses, their major function is development banking. They provide
long and medium term loans, principally in foreign currencies, participate in
equity financing and in underwriting of shares and securities. Both the
institutions are borrowers of the World Bank (para. 3.02)./l
2.16      Finance companies are stock corporations which extend credit to
enterprises and directly to consumers, usually by discounting commercial
papers or accounts receivables. They also engage in leasing. Their
resources are relatively small and their main activity is centered around
consumer finance. Almost 85% of the total resources of finance companies is
accounted for by three companies which are joint ventures with Fidelity
International Bank, Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank.
2.17      The Insurance System.  The total assets of the private insurance
companies and the Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) and the Social
Security System (SSS) comprise about 16% of the total assets of the
financial system. The insurance sector funds have not been utilized towards
any meaningful development of the long-term financial market. GSIS makes
direct investments in stocks and bonds of both private and government
institutions and in the process assumes substantial liquidity risks. The SSS
operates on a more conservative basis. Notes receivables of PNB and DBP
constitute 60% of its portfolio; the balance of its investments are housing
loans and loans to policyholders. Private insurance companies invest mainly
in bonds and undertake mortgage financing. About 15% of their portfolio is
invested in equities; the relatively low participation in equities is the
result of Government regulatory restrictions on their investment in this
field.
The Financial Markets
2.18      Capital Market.  The capital market in the Philippines has not been
a significant source of medium- and long-term finance. The limited extent to
which the capital market serves as a source of long-term capital for the
J1 Details of PDCP's and PISO's organization and operations are discussed
in Chapter 5.



- 17 -
private sector is illustrated by the small number of public offerings in the
primary market. At present there are only 196 equity issues listed on the
stock exchanges (representing 0.5% of all corporations registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission) and only one bond issue. Growth of the
capital market, both in the number and size of issues, is however, desirable
in the pursuit of objectives such as a wider distribution of equity ownership,
mobilization of long-term capital for development and providing a secondary
market outlet when financial institutions need to revolve their portfolios.
But such growth cannot be expected to occur quickly, and it is, therefore,
unlikely that the capital market will, in the near future, become a
predominant intermediary for long-term flow of funds into private industry and
trade. Nevertheless, policies, practices and institutional developments can
be undertaken to encourage growth of an efficient capital market. The most
important elements of an environment conducive to capital market development
are the regulatory framework and the tax regime. The former is the responsi-
bility of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) whose activities have
been recently expanded. Significantly, under the contemplated reform of the
Corporate Law, the SEC will be given powers to require corporations to go
public where the public interest so requires. However, the present definition
of a "public offering" as a sale to a very small number of outside share-
holders (15-20) is ineffective in broadening the base of ownership. In
addition, the tax treatment of corporate income, interest and dividends needs
to be reviewed to encourage a genuine public ownership base.
2.19       Money Market.  In contrast with the marginal role of the long-term
capital market, the short-term money market has played an important role in
the Philippines. In the early 1970s, the money market grew very rapidly and
its volume of business escalated at an annual rate of 50% during 1974-75;
deposit substitutes increased to the equivalent of about 80% of the total
savings and time deposits with commercial banks. This spectacular growth was
made possible by an absence of control over money market interest rates and
consequently the effective rate on deposit substitutes rose to over 30% p.a.
in comparison with the time-deposit rates of 8 to 11%. The flurry of activity
in the money market, however, brought about no noticeable change in extension
of maturities in money market borrowings, at least not beyond the two-year
limit. In 1976, the Government sought to reduce the wide disparity between
effective yields on deposits and deposit substitutes by imposing a transaction
tax of 35% on deposit substitutes and by limiting after tax yields on deposit
substitutes to 16%. These measures slowed down the growth rate of deposit
substitutes to only 5% per annum after 1975.
The Financial Sector Reforms of 1980-81
2.20       The Joint IMF/World Bank Study.  In the late 1970s, the Government
became increasingly concerned about the future direction of the financial
system and in 1979 commissioned a joint IMF/World Bank study on the financial
sector in the Philippines. The mission's report concluded that the major
problem besetting the financial system was that specialization of functions



- 18 -
had led to excessive fragmentation and there were too many institutions, often
too small, to function efficiently and effectively to meet the financing needs
of a growing economy. What was needed was to reduce legislated specialization
so that the financial sector as a whole could move away from its rigidly
compartmentalized and specialized structure to a system in which institutions
would be free to respond flexibly and competitively to the changing needs of
an evolving economy. The report, therefore, recommended that measures should
be adopted enabling commercial banks to provide medium and long-term credit
and to participate in the underwriting and financing of equity. The report
also recommended changes in interest rate, in discount and monetary policy and
in fiscal policy to provide for greater responsiveness to market forces and
greater incentive for long-term lending. Substantially based on the recom-
mendations contained in the joint IMF/World Bank financial sector report,/l
and a series of subsequent discussions held between the Government and the
Bank staff, the Government prepared and implemented a comprehensive set of
banking and financial reforms, briefly described in the following paragraphs.
2.21      Institutional Reforms.  The first step was a series of amendments
to the basic banking legislation which were approved by the National Assembly
in March 1980. The following summarizes the major instituitional changes
brought about by the new banking legislation:
(a) A new class of financial institutions (banks with expanded commer-
cial banking authority) will be licensed under the new legislation
and will, in their operations, combine commercial banking functions
with investment banking, including equity participations and under-
writing of equities and securities. The authorization for "expanded
banking authority" will be given by the Monetary Board, the regula-
tory body of the Central Bank, and commercial banks and investment
houses can apply to be licensed /2 provided they meet the minimum
net worth requirement and other criteria prescribed from time to
time by the Monetary Board. The net worth requirement has, to begin
with, been set by the Monetary Board at P 500 million. The regu-
lations guard against overconcentration of economic power in
"expanded banks" as they are not permitted to hold more than 35% of
the paid-in share capital of any enterprise in whose equity they
invest. Further, their equity investments are kept within prudent
limits by restricting their aggregate holdings in stocks to 50% of
their net worth. Permission has already been given by the Monetary
Board to PNB to function as an "expanded bank."
/1 The World Bank, Philippines: Aspects of the Financial Sector, October
1979 (Report No. 2546-PH).
/2 Thrift and rural banks must first become commercial banks before they can
seek authorization to become "expanded banks."



- 19 -
(b)  Thrift banks have now been granted full domestic banking authority,
including opening of checking accounts, but will not have authority
to undertake foreign banking operations or perform investment bank-
ing functions. Rural banks, which in the past operated as unit
banks, have now been given power to establish branches and perform
most domestic banking functions, except establishment of domestic
letters of credit. The restrictions on the size of their operations
have also been abolished. These expanded banking functions will
enable thrift and rural banks to provide a broader scale of services
to the housing, farm and SSE sectors and will provide them a wider
field of operations and enhance their ability and incentives for
higher resource mobilization. The wider functions which thrift and
rural banks will now perform will make banking facilities more wide-
spread in the Philippines and will bring about a healthy competition
between these institutions and commercial banks.
(c)  Investment houses have been permitted to undertake trust and foreign
exchange operations and given access to the Central Bank's dis-
counting facilities. Considering that they will now have to compete
with large "expanded banks," it is likely that they will specialize
in merchant banking functions (in addition to direct investment
financing) and provide investment advisory and resource packaging
services to Philippine entrepreneurs. This service can be of
considerable utility as the Philippines adopts more complex and
sophisticated project financing techniques. PDCP and PISO, who are
borrowers of the Bank, will continue, in addition, to perform
their development banking functions and would be participating
financial institutions in the proposed Bank loan.
Although these amendments do not in themselves abolish the specialized nature
of the banking system, they do enlarge institutional functions, make possible
greater competition as between various categories of institutions and provide
them greater flexibility in their operations.  Subject to the consent of the
Monetary Board, the reforms will also make possible the evolution of financial
institutions from one category to another.
2.22      Monetary Policy Reforms.  As a further step towards implementation
of the reforms, particularly to facilitate term-lending, the Central Bank
adopted, in August 1980, a number of monetary policies. Four of these are of
particular significance:
(a)  The Central Bank has established a "lender-of-last-resort" facility
to provide liquidity to the banking system in times of cash strin-
gency. Although discounting facilities were available in the past,
they were highly discretionary, very limited and were often
suspended, creating serious problems for banks at times when
liquidity needs were most urgent and pressing. Under the new
regulations, "lender-of-last-resort" discounting would be more or
less automatic. These assured arrangements for overcoming
temporary liquidity shortages will broaden the planning horizon of



- 20 -
banks and encourage them to undertake term-transformation with
greater confidence.
(b)  For the first time, long-term bills will be eligible for Central
Bank discounting. All such bills when discounted by the Central
Bank will be at 6% p.a. below the interest rate at which the
financial transaction reflected in bill was provided. The dis-
counting facility itself and the substantial discount of 6% will
act as important incentive to term lending.
(c)  "Expanded banks" and commercial banks would be further encouraged
to lend long- and medium-term by two measures:
(i)  the Monetary Board has been given discretionary powers to
reduce the risk assets to net worth ratio from 10% to 6% to
provide additional leverage to banks to undertake term
financing; and
(ii)  the previous statutory limit which permitted a maximum of 20%
of deposit resources to be used for term-financing, has been
abolished and discretionary powers have now been given to the
Monetary Board to prescribe from time to time ceilings for
term lending in accordance with the needs of the economy and
consistent, of course, with sound liquidity management.
(d)  To encourage longer-term deposits, reserve requirements have been
fixed at a nominal rate of 5% for all deposits whose original
maturity exceeds 730 days. This change will become effective on
January 1, 1982.
2.23      Fiscal Incentives.  The third element in the reforms package is
fiscal incentives. The most significant incentive involves a reduction of
gross receipts tax on interest income on loans of longer maturity. The
measure envisages that no tax will be levied on maturities exceeding 7 years,
1% on maturities between 4 and 7 years, 3% on maturities between 2 and 4 years
and 5% on shorter maturities. A second incentive exempts "expanded banks"
from tax on dividends earned by them on their equity investments. Both these
measures are meant to encourage term lending and equity investments. Another
significant fiscal measure that has been adopted exempts share transactions,
that have for their objective the merger of financial institutions, from
capital gain tax.
2.24      Interest Rate Policy.  Until 1976, interest rates that could be
charged by the banking system were restricted to a maximum nominal rate of
12% p.a. for loans secured by real estate mortgage and 14% p.a. for loans
not so secured. The banks, however, discounted interest at the time of
disbursement and this practice gave them an effective yield of 13.6% and
16.3%, depending upon the security offered.  In addition, banks were allowed
to charge service fees ranging from 0.75% to 2% p.a. OnA the deposit side,
savings rate was 6% p.a. and time deposit rate a maximum of 11.5%, p.a.



- 21 -
2.25      Between 1976 and 1981 the Central Bank made substantial changes in
the interest rate structure as outlined in the summary below:
(a) a distinction is now made between long-term and short-term
interest rates and financial institutions are permitted to charge
21% (inclusive of service charge) p.a. on loans of two years
maturity or more and 16% to 18% (inclusive of service charge) on
loans of shorter maturity. However, effective July 1, 1981 there
will be no interest rate ceiling for loans of two years maturity
or more;
(b) the interest rate ceiling on deposits of 730 days maturity or more
has been abolished. At present, short-term time deposits (less
than 730 days maturity) are subject to a 14% ceiling while lower
rates apply to savings deposits (9%) and NOW accounts (7%).
However, effective July 1, 1981, the Government has decided to
abolish interest rate ceilings on all types of deposits. Demand
deposits, as is normal, will continue to bear no interest;
(c) in August 1980 the Government gave financial institutions the
option to charge variable interest rates for loans having a
maturity of four years or more. This arrangement permits banks to
vary the interest rate every six months and charge a mark-up of 3%
over a reference rate based on time deposits of 730 days'
maturity. This rate is computed and announced every month
by the Central Bank. From July 1, 1981 the maturity of loans
permitted variable interest rates will be reduced from a minimum
of four years to two years and there will be no ceiling on the
spread allowed. The introduction of variable interest rates will
encourage term transformation as periodic adjustments in the
interest rate will protect "spreads" on term-lending in situations
where subsequent increase in deposit rates raise the cost of funds
and threaten to erode margins on term loans.
Although interest rates were sometimes positive in relation to inflation,
variations in inflation rate notably in 1973 and 1974 and again in 1979 and
1980 combined with tight control on interest rates brought about a situation
where real interest rates became essentially negative.
2.26      Evaluation of Reforms and Issues.  The objective of greater
availability of equity and long-term finance for the industrial sector is
expected to be substantially facilitated through the adoption of the reforms
which constitute an adequate basis for the proposed loan. However, there
are some refinements which if made, would further improve the policy framework
and give greater consistency to the reforms package:
(a) "Expanded Banks." The net worth qualification limit of P 500 mil-
lion reflects the Government's cautious approach in the matter, but
as more experience is gained and as the process of institutional



- 22 -
consolidation goes forward, there would be a need to license more
expanded banks through lowering of the net worth qualification
limit. Large banks essentially service large clients particularly
in the metropolitan area and unless some of the relatively smaller
banks are given expanded powers, the eventual beneficiaries of the
reform may only be the established enterprises and the large
industrial sector. A phased lowering of the net worth limit would,
therefore, be consistent with the principle of greater competition
and easier accessibility of equity and term finance, particularly to
the relatively new and smaller enterprises. In its statement of
policy on the future evolution of the financial sector presented
during loan negotiations, the Government declared its intention to
make "expanded" banking more broad-based by encouraging accelera-
tion in the process of institutional mergers and consolidation and
by lowering the net worth qualification limit (Annex 1). However,
definitive action will only be taken by the Government after it had
sufficient opportunity to monitor and evaluate the performance of
"expanded banks" that are now being licensed.
(b) Interest Rate. Notwithstanding forward movements in the deregu-
lation of interest rates, there still remains some element of
control which as in the past, might distort the pricing of money
and inhibit rapid adjustments to reflect positive rates in relation
to inflation. However, the Government has affirmed its adherence
to positive interest rates as an instrument of policy and believes
that the deregulation and flexibility already introduced and in the
process of introduction will give interest rates greater market
orientation. It nonetheless feels that complete deregulation of
short-term lending rates may be detrimental to the interest of the
small businesses, newcomers to industry and regional industries and,
as a result of the oligopolistic character of the Philippine banking
system, lead to undue concentration of economic power by diversion
of funds to the large scale sector. This, the Government contends
would be socially and politically undesirable. While the Govern-
ment affirmed at negotiations that it will seek to maintain positive
real lending rates, it believes that the basis for such revisions
should be long-term underlying trends. The Government fears that
too frequent changes based on short-term variations in inflation
rates could be destabilizing. In addition, it is necessary that
lending rates of Government financial institutions, particularly
DBP, should not be subsidized and should reflect market rates. This
will be consistent with the Government's current interest policy and
with the objective of developing a competitive long-term lending
market by private financial institutions. Agreements concerning
periodic interest rate review, the lending rates of the government
financial institutions and establishment of suitable criteria and an



- 23 -
appropriate mechanism for conducting such reviews of interest rates
on a regular basis, reached with the Government at negotiations
are recorded in the Government's statement of policy (Annex 1).
Future Evolution
2.27      The financial sector reforms of 1980-81 though constituting an
adequate basis for the proposed loan, should be considered an episode, albeit
an important episode, in the continuing process of industrial and financial
sector evolution. The creation of "expanded banks," the forward movement
towards a more flexible and market-oriented interest rate policy, the
introduction of variable interest rates and the adoption of a more flexible
and incentive-oriented monetary and Central Bank rediscount policy are
important milestones and should assist in mobilizing and channeling resources
to meet the financial needs of the Government's new and ambitious industrial
policy and improve the efficiency of industrial investment.
2.28      The Government intends to monitor closely the performance of the
financial sector, and to ensure that the sector fully and adequately supports
and assists in the realization of the objectives of its industrial policies.
At negotiations, the Government issued a statement of policy contained in a
letter signed by the Mfinister of Finance affirming its objectives of future
financial sector reforms (Annex 1). The following are some important
specific long-run objectives of the Government:
(a) The Government has already adopted measures under its industrial
policy to encourage the expansion of export industries. These
include fiscal incentives and special Central Bank discounting
facilities for export finance. The institutional structure has also
been strengthened including: (i) establishment of a guarantee
facility by the Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee Cor-
poration to assist exporters in obtaining loans from commercial
banks; (ii) establishment of a Cottage Industry Guarantee Fund to
support cottage industry which is mainly oriented towards exports;
and (iii) creation of an Export Credit Corporation to provide
medium term finance to export industries.
(b) Although the 1980 financial sector reforms will strengthen the
rural banking system, the Government has stated that it is one of
its important objectives to further examine the working of rural
banks to make them less dependent on Government funds, more
business- like in their approach and more self-sustaining and
profit-oriented in their operations. The Government also recog-
nizes that the crucial area of agricultural credit, as a whole,
needs to be examined including the changes that may be required in
the respective roles of the various government financial insti-
tutions such as LBP and DBP and the Central Bank. While creating
an agricultural credit structure best suited to take into account
the susceptibility of this sector to adverse factors beyond the



- 24 -
control of the farmers, the Government has already taken the
important step in this direction by establishing the Philippine Crop
Insurance Corporation. The Corporation will initially insure
rice crops and will gradually expand its coverage to other crops as
more experience is gained.
(c) The provision of housing finance remains one of the Government's
major concerns. The greater resource mobilization capacity given to
thrift banks by the banking reforms is expected to increase the
provision of housing finance, and this will be supplemented in a
meaningful measure by the operations of the recently created Home
Mortgage Finance Corporation and the Home Development Mutual Fund.
The Government will monitor and review the developments and will
encourage private investment in the financing and supply of housing.
(d) The Government has decided to embark upon a policy that would make
more efficient use of insurance and social security funds possible.
These funds are essentially long-term in nature but, considering
their social security character, it is necessary to protect them
from excessive risk exposure. In the past social security and
insurance funds have been used for direct investment in projects
which may have carried excessive risk. The Government has affirmed
that insurance and social security funds would, in the future, be
used as important components in the development of a long-term
financial market and for this purpose it would devise policies
which, without exposing such funds to undue risk, will ensure their
flow to the most economically desirable sectors. To limit the risk,
without interfering with the direction of ultimate flow of funds,
the Government will encourage such funds to be invested in high
grade bonds and securities.
(e) The Government has been using the Central Bank's discounting
facilities to channel credit on a preferential basis to what it
considered desirable sectors of economic activity. The Government,
however, is aware that subsidized allocative discounting can result
in misallocation of resources and has decided to keep the Central
Bank's preferential rediscounting policy continuously under review
so that only those sectors receive preferential treatment which are
justified by rigorous economic analysis. The recent simplification
in the structure and complexity of the Central Bank's rediscounting
is a first step in this direction.
(f) In the final analysis, a growing part of the long-term credit needs
for development will have to be met by the capital market. The



- 25 -
development of a capital market has become all the more urgent
because "expanded banks" would need an active secondary market to be
able to revolve their portfolio and generate liquidity for further
investment in equities. While several steps have been taken in the
past to develop the capital market--including the licensing of stock
exchanges, establishment of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
and revision of the commercial code to provide a legal framework for
its growth--these measures have not resulted in the desired
structure, with stock market activities dominated by highly specu-
lative transactions. The Government, therefore, has expressed its
intention to prepare a plan of action to develop, strengthen and
streamline the network of institutions and regulatory authorities
constituting the capital market.
(g)  The specialized Government banks were created to cater to particular
needs.  While these institutions will, in their operations, continue
to stress the purposes for which they were created, they will, on
the other hand, align themselves more closely with the objective of
the Government's current development policy and will be given
greater autonomy and freedom in portfolio selection. The Government
intends to review the regulations governing the interest rates
charged by these institutions to ensure that their rates are
compatible with both Governxment's current interest rate policy and
with the objective of development of long-term lending by private
financial institutions.
3. BANK'S INDUSTRIAL LENDING STRATEGY AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Bank's Past Industrial Lending
3.01      The Bank's past industrial lending strategy in the Philippines has
largely aimed at the promotion and strengthening of development finance
companies (DFCs) acting as vehicles for efficient intermediation of financial
resources including those provided by the Bank. Another major objective of
the Bank-s DFC lending was resource transfer to provide foreign exchange
needed for industrial development in futherance of the Government's
industrialization programs, particularly, with a view to promoting balanced
growth through regional development, employment generation and growth of
exports.
3.02      Since 1962, when it made its first DFC-type loan to the Philippines,
the Bank has provided nine loans aggregating $343.4 million to three DFCs viz:
PDCP (five loans for a total of $123.4 million), DBP (three loans for a total
of $205.0 million) and PISO (one loan of $15.0 million).  In addition, the



- 26 -
Bank has made two loans aggregating $55 million for the development of small
and medium scale industries (SMI) through DBP and the Industrial Guarantee
and Loan Fund (IGLF), a compensatory financing and guarantee fund of the
Government (Annex 7, T-4). The Bank has also assisted the rural industries
through the CB-IBRD Rural Credit Program and the Bank-assisted Urban Projects
contain credit components for cottage industries.
3.03      The Bank achieved a reasonable degree of success in institution
building. The standards achieved by the institutions vary, with the two
private sector institutions (PDCP and PISO) showing greater sophistication.
DBP's operations, on the other hand, although much improved, still reflect
some weaknesses largely on account of some Government directed lending to
priority areas and problems in its loan collections.
3.04      In all, 261 subprojects in medium/large industry and about 2,500
SMI subprojects, covering a broad spectrum of industries, have been assisted
under the Bank's financing. These subprojects involve a total investment of
P 8.9 billion and are estimated to generate net additional exports of
$480 million annually, and about 91,000 new jobs. The DFC financed sub-
projects in medium/large industry generally had strong financial and economic
viability; their ex-ante average financial rate of return (FRR) was 28% and
average economic rate of return (ERR) 33%./1 Some salient characteristics of
subprojects financed under Bank loans are tabulated in Annex 7, T-5.
Although, on the whole, there was a substantial beneficial economic impact in
the use of Bank funds by the DFCs, the financing was substantially for capital
intensive projects which were overly dependent on protection and largely
concentrated in the Metro Manila area. This was the result of Government
policies which favored capital intensity and import substitution and laid
little emphasis on employment impact and export orientation based on
comparative advantage.
The Rationale and Strategy for Future Bank Lending
3.05      In 1978, the Bank reviewed its operational program in the industrial
sector in the Philippines and concluded that while the Bank-s past lending to
individual DFCs had achieved significant institution-building objectives,
there were serious deficiencies and distortions in the Government-s industrial
and financial policies which inhibited appropriate industrial growth. It was
decided, therefore, that industrial and financial sector policy improvements
should, in addition to institution building, be made an essential objective
/1 Based on a representative sample of 130 subprojects for FRR and 103
subprojects for ERR. While FRR ranged between 12% and 86%, ERR ranged
between 10% and 112%.



- 27 -
of future Bank lending to the industrial sector. As stated in Chapter 1 of
this report, an Industrial Sector Report was completed in early 1979.  The
findings and recommendations of this report provided the basis for major
changes in industrial and trade policies in the context of SAL I /1 approved
by the Executive Directors in September 1980. The Financial Sector Report
produced jointly by the IMF and the Bank in September 1979 recommended
fundamental reforms in the financial system; these reforms were directed at
providing the legal basis and encouragement and incentives to financial insti-
tutions to make investments in equity and long-term loans. After extensive
discussions with the Bank, the Government formulated and implemented in
1980-81 a package of financial reforms (paras. 2.20 to 2.25). These reforms,
which are fundamental and comprehensive, constitute the underlying basis for
the proposed loan. The primary objectives of the project are to focus on
financial sector issues and to gradually transfer to the Central Bank the
responsibility for administering and supervising the Bank loan. Inasmuch as
the project will address financial sector issues, the proposed loan will
constitute the Bank's first financial sector loan to the Philippines for
industrial financing.
3.06       In addition to SALs and Financial Sector loans, the Bank hopes to
lend for specific subsectors of industries and to continue its SMI lending.
A loan to support the rehabilitation and rationalization of the textile
subsector is planned for FY82 and in addition the scope of SMI lending would
be broadened to include assistance to specific subsectors with development
potential. In addition, nonfinancial assistance including training and
manpower development will be provided. The next SMI Bank loan is also
scheduled for FY82.
Project Objectives
3.07       The project serves a number of objectives.  First, it would enable
the Bank to shift the focus of its involvement from institutional issues to
broader sector related issues as described in para. 3.05. Secondly, through
t'he proposed cofinancing arrangements, the project would assist in raising
additional resources from the international market for financial institu-
tions relending operations. Thirdly, the project would provide for the
establishment within the Central Bank of an organizational set-up with the
capacity to relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to participating financial
institutions (PFIs) and for gradually assuming the responsibility for guiding
and supervising the operations of the PFIs. This should improve the Central
Bank's institutional capacity as an onlender of funds for development
purposes. Finally, the proposed arrangements would gradually expand the
number of financial intermediaries having access to Bank funds, thereby
/1 President Report No.P 2872-PH, dated August 21, 1980.



- 28 -
allowing the Bank and the Central Bank to help develop institutional capacity
for long-term lending in a larger number of financial institutions. The
recent financial sector reforms encourage long-term lending by commercial
banks particularly through term transformation of their peso deposit resources
and the participation of these institutions in the proposed loan would have a
crucial impact in developing their professional capacity and know-how to
evaluate long-term investments.
4. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.01      The propos"d project reflects the Bank's new approach to industrial
lending in the Philippines, and supports the Government's financial and
industrial sector reforms described earlier in this report. Instead of
lending separately for individual DFCs, as in the past, the Bank would use a
two-tier approach under which the Central Bank would be the borrower and would
relend the proceeds of the loan to accredited participating financial insti-
tutions (PFIs). The proceeds of the Bank loan would be used for financing
economically and financially viable industrial projects in accordance with the
objectives of the industrial policy of the Government. The Central Bank would
be responsible for identifying and accrediting PFIs and evaluating and
monitoring their performance. The institutional and administrative
arrangements are described in paras. 4.04-4.23.
4.02      Although sectors such as agroprocessing, construction, mining,
shipping and utilities are eligible, the bulk of the loan is expected to go to
the manufacturing sector. The project is intended to finance mainly medium-
and larger-scale enterprises. The asset size of beneficiary enterprises under
the project is estimated to range from P 4.0 million ($53,000) to P 100.0
million ($13.3 million) with a majority of projects in the P 15.0 million
($2.0 million) - P 50.0 million ($6.7 million) range. About 170 sub-
projects are expected to receive assistance under the project. To ensure a
reasonably wide distribution of project funds, a ceiling of $6.0 million on
subloans has ben agreed with the Central Bank. There are a number of ongoing
programs aimed specifically at meeting the long-term credit needs of cottage
and small-scale industries and the Bank will continue to support the more
important of these programs separately through its SMI lending (para. 3.06).
4.03      The project is a part of the Philippine Government's program for
further developing the industrial sector and introducing complementary reforms
in the financial sector so as to ensure efficient intermediation, and to
attain a balanced and efficient growth of industry./l The industrial sector
reform will help create an investment environment that will be conducive to
growth of those subsectors of industry which have inherent economic compara-
/1 Details are discussed under chapter on "Industrial Sector."



- 29 -
tive advantage, need minimnum protection, can compete effectively in the
export market and make optimal use of local resources. The project incor-
porates features that would facilitate growth of industry in the aforemen-
tioned directions and the subproject selection criteria would emphasize
conformity with the objectives of the Governnent's industrial policy.
Moreover, the Central Bank would closely monitor the financing policies of
each PFI to ensure compliance with national priorities and wherever
necessary would suggest and assist PFIs in the identifying specific areas of
investment that are likely to yield maximum benefits to the economy. To
this end, the Central Bank's organizational unit in charge of the project
would maintain a close working relationship with the relevant Government
ministries, particularly the National Economic and Development Authority,
MOI and BOI. If necessary, ADFU may itself undertake studies to explore new
and desirable fields of investment. An understanding has been reached between
the Bank and the Central Bank that in respect of all subloans over $500,000,
the ERR will be calculated and that normally no subloan which has an ERR
below 12% will be financed under this project.
Institutional Arrangements for the Project
4.04      The Apex Development Finance Unit (ADFU). Presidential Decree
No. 1309, issued in 1978, authorized the Central Bank "to borrow from foreign
banks and other foreign or international agencies both public and private, for
the purpose of financing the special credit operations" such as the proposed
project. In addition, the Central Banking Act was amended in April 1980,
allowing the Central Bank to lend to non-bank financial intermediaries. These
steps give the Central Bank full legal authority to undertake the proposed
project.
4.05      On the strength of this legal authority the Central Bank created in
August 1980 a separate unit named the Apex Development Finance Unit (ADFU)
with the specific responsibility for administering the project. The primary
objective of this unit as defined by the lIonetary Board /1 is "to assist in
promoting and financing sound industrial development in the Philippines, in
line with Governmnent policy and in coordination with other Central Bank
offices and other Government institutions and entities." ADFU is mandated to
achieve this objective by "channelling funds through suitable financial
institutions capable of evaluating sound investment proposals and able to
undertake efficient intermediation of medium- and long-term financial
resources." The project-s size, its importance in the context of industrial
and financial policy reforms, and its expected long-term expansion justify
full-time attention of a separate organizational unit.
4.06      ADFU-s Operating Policies.  The Monetary Board has approved
operating policy guidelines for ADFU which would serve as its charter.
These guidelines cover all major aspects of ADFU's organization and
activities. Some salient features are summarized below:
/1 This objective is spelled out in the operating policy guidelines for
ADFU approved by the Monetary Board, in August 1980 (see para. 4.06).



- 30 -
(a) Functions. ADFU's functions are to: (i) administer and relend to
PFIs, the Central Bank's borrowings from the Bank and the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) relating to the industrial sector; (ii)
help build up the institutional capabilities of PFIs and (iii)
expand, subject to necessary safeguards, the institutional
participation in ADFU's financing program.
(b) Eligibility of PFIs. To be eligible for ADFU's financing, PFIs
should meet the accreditation criteria described in detail in
para. 4.15.
(c) ADFU's financing will be restricted to viable and development-
oriented industrial projects.
(d) Project Selection and Monitoring. The responsibility for select-
ing, appraising and supervising subprojects to be financed under
the project, would rest with PFIs who would thus have adequate
decision-making autonomy. However, ADFU through its monitoring of
PFIs, would ensure that they apply satisfactory standards of
project evaluation and supervision.
(f) Decision-Making Authority. All policy matters and decisions
concerning the accreditation of new PFIs would be taken by
the Monetary Board. The authority for approving subprojects
submitted by PFIs or recommending approval to the creditors would,
however, rest with ADFU.
4.07      The guidelines approved by the Monetary Board were generally
satisfactory but some modifications were necessary to bring them in line with
the basic philosophy of the proposed Bank financing, as are some additions,
to make them more comprehensive. First, instead of being restricted to
administering foreign exchange funds obtained from the Bank and ADB, ADFU
should have the capability of mobilizing and administering funds raised from
other sources including foreign commercial banks. This is needed not only for
raising the overall resources required for the project (para. 4.24), but also
for the long-term development of ADFU. Moreover, some amendments to the
guidelines are also needed with regard the accreditation criteria (para. 4.17)
and procurements (para. 4.22). The Central Bank agreed to incorporate the
necessary amendments in the operating policy guidelines and has since obtained
Monetary Board's approval to the revised guidelines (Annex 2).
4.08      ADFU-s Management and Requirements of Advisory Services.  Under
the overall guidance of the Governor of the Central Bank, ADFU's management
rests with a Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who has a rank equivalent to a
Deputy Governor. The CEO will be assisted by a deputy of Director rank who



- 31 -
would supervise the day-to-day affairs of the unit. ADFU's Chief Executive
Officer, prior to his appointment in June 1980, was a senior partner in a
local firm of public accountants of international repute. He is well known
and respected in financial and business circles in the country. His
professional experience and standing should enable him to obtain the PFI's
cooperation and to provide ADFU with effective leadership and management.
The Central Bank is in the process of recruiting a suitable candidate for
the position of Deputy CEO. Since ADFU's operations are expected to be on
full stream in the fourth quarter of 1981, the Deputy CEO would be appointed,
in consultation with the Bank, by September 30, 1981. An understanding to
this effect was reached with the Central Bank at negotiations.
4.09      Given that ADFU is the first organization of its kind in the
Philippines and the Central Bank's relative unfamiliarity with development
banking, a senior adviser conversant with industrial finance has been
appointed to assist ADFU in the formulation of policies and in the conduct of
day-to-day operations. The services of the adviser are being financed by UNDP
for which the Project Agreement between the Government and UNDP has been
signed; the Bank is acting as the executing agency of the UNDP assistance.
4.10      ADFU in Central Bank Organization.  The Central Bank is organized
into five major "sectors" or groups of departments. Each "sector" is headed
by a Deputy Governor who reports to the Governor through the Senior Deputy
Governor. ADFU, however, reports directly to the Governor as it is a part
of his office. This organizational arrangement is intended to give ADFU
maximum operational autonomy, through direct access to the Governor and
through him to the Monetary Board.
4.11      ADFU is to be organized into two main operating groups, each headed
by a senior officer. The Operations Group will be responsible, inter alia,
for the identification, evaluation and monitoring of PFIs and review and
processing of subprojects submitted for financing by PFIs. The Finance and
Administration Group will provide support to the Operations Group and handle
loan disbursements, accounting, management information and staff training in
addition to routine administrative matters. In addition, ADFU will have a
unit in charge of economic work. ADFU-s internal organization would be in
place by September 30, 1981 and a firm understanding to this effect was
reached with the Central Bank at loan negotiations.
4.12       Staff.  The total staff strength of ADFU approved by the Monetary
Board is 28 including 20 professionals. Including the CEO, a total of 10
professionals have so far been appointed to the unit; four of these were
recruited from the private sector.  The present staff has adequate academic
qualifications and is mostly experienced in the supervision of banks. For
the initial operations which mainly consist of the evaluation of PFIs the
present staff is adequate. Additional staff (including some economists) of
suitable caliber, will, however, be needed to cope with ADFU's future
workload as it expands. At negotiations, the Central Bank undertook to



- 32 -
complete the recruitment of suitable additional staff needed for ADFU's
operations, by September 30, 1981.
4.13      Staff Training.  The Central Bank recognizes the need to develop
ADFU-s staff skills through training programs, both on-the-job and formal.
A beginning has been made in this direction. ADFU's present staff has
benefitted from the evaluation of the first three PFIs viz. DBP, PDCP and
PIS0 during which Bank staff collaborated closely with ADFU-s staff. In
addition, three staff members attended a six-week project evaluation course
organized by a local institution and a senior staff member attended, in the
fall of 1980, an agro-industrial project evaluation course conducted by the
Economic Development Institute of the Bank.
4.14      In the future, ADFU will develop systematic and comprehensive
training programs not only for its own staff but also for the staff of
accredited as well as potential PFIs. It should be possible to organize
training locally, but foreign assistance may be needed to provide
instructions in certain areas of expertise. UNDP financing, totalling
$150,000, will be available for this purpose. Details of the training
programs will be finalized in consultation with the adviser, on or before
September 30, 1981.
The Project Procedures
4.15      The Accreditation System.  The accreditation process subjects an
applicant institution to a comprehensive evaluation by ADFU, with a view to
assessing the present and prospective suitability of the institution to act
as an efficient intermediary for industrial financing. For this purpose,
the Central Bank has set out in the ADFU-s operating policy guidelines the
following criteria for the "accreditation" of PFIs:
(a)  sound financial position and performance and a healthy portfolio;
(b)  sound operating policies and procedures, and a development-
oriented strategy for future operations;
(c)  an organization, management and staff with the requisite expertise
to undertake term lending operations including the technical,
economic and financial appraisal of projects and their supervision;
and
(d) compliance with all relevant laws, decrees and regulations to the
satisfaction of all regulatory authorities.
4.16      The above mentioned criteria are generally satisfactory.  The
management of ADFU and the advisor, are expected to develop more detailed
processing procedures for accreditation. In reviewing applications for
accreditation, the ADFU will work closely with each PFI to help it develop



- 33 -
its institutional capability for long-term lending.  In addition, the Bank
would review ADFU's evaluation reports on PFIs recommended for accreditation
and draft subsdiary loan agreements between the Central Bank and PFIs, and
would reserve for itself the right to be satisfied on both these scores
prior to accreditation becoming effective. Agreement on this subject has
been reached with the Central Bank.
4.17      Both privately-owned and Government-owned financial institutions
meeting the accreditation criteria mentioned in para. 4.15 are eligible
for accreditation. However, priority is given to private sector institutions
in accordance with the Government-s policy of promoting more active partici-
pation of the commercial banks and other private institutions in term
financing. The Government-owned financial institutions have been used by
the Government as the implementing arm for its special financing programs.
Consequently, some of these institutions have had to carry a portfolio of
doubtful quality which does not necessarily reflect the quality of their
management.  In accrediting Government institutions, agreements will be
sought by ADFU from the Government to safeguard such institutions against
losses incurred on projects financed at Government behest. In addition,
the Government-owned PFIs would be required to lend on terms (and in
particular, interest rates) consistent with the current interest rate policy
of the Government and with the objective of development of a competitive
long-term lending market by private financial institutions. These two
additional criteria have been incorporated in the revised operating policy
guidelines of ADFU (para. 4.07).
4.18      A number of financial institutions have expressed interest in
applying for accreditation with ADFU. ADFU has already evaluated three major
term lending institutions viz., DBP, PDCP and PISO with which the Bank has
established a long-standing relationship under past Bank DFC loans. These
three institutions will be accredited formally after loan negotiations. As
a first step towards accreditation of additional PFIs the Central Bank has
identified eight commercial banks and four investment houses which have the
potential for serving as effective intermediaries for ADFU's resources. The
characteristics of these prospective PFIs are discussed in the next chapter.
However, for most of these commercial banks and investment houses develop-
ment-oriented term lending is a new and unfamiliar activity. Consequently,
they would require ADFU's technical assistance for establishing appropriate
policies and procedures, organization and staffing prior to undertaking
term-financing. At present and for the immediate future, ADFU's capacity
for providing this technical assistance and its financial resources are
limited.  Therefore, it is ADFU-s intention to evaluate and initially
accredit only two or three of the more promising institutions. After ADFU
has established a satisfactory working relationship with five or six PFIs
and as its own organization, operational capacity and resources develop,
more PFIs would be accredited. An understanding to this effect was reached
with the Central Bank at negotiations.



- 34 -
4.19      Monitoring of PFIs.  In line with a basic objective of the project,
the Bank would ordinarily rely on ADFu to carry out the institution building
responsibility vis-a-vis the PFIs. To this end, ADFU would monitor the
performance of each PFI to ensure general compliance with the accreditation
criteria and its further progress. However, until such time as ADFU's staff
has acquired the necessary expertise and capacity, the Bank would closely
monitor the adequacy of ADFU-s supervision of the PFIs. The Bank would
continue to pay particular attention to the supervision of DBP in view of the
magnitude of the problems DBP is facing (para. 5.28-5.35). The Bank's
monitoring of ADFU's work with PFIs would consist of: (a) requiring that each
PFI be supervised in depth at least once a year and progress reports on PFIs
be periodically reviewed; (b) reviewing with the management and staff of ADFU
the supervision reports on PFIs. This would provide the opportunity for an
exchange of views between the Bank and ADFU; and (c) participating with ADFU
in its field work relating to supervision of PFIs, as necessary. Finally, the
Bank would reserve for itself the right to undertake direct supervision of
PFIs in cases where it considers performance to be unsatisfactory or in the
event such supervision was considered helpful in improving the institutional
capacity of a particular PFI. A firm understanding on these arrangements has
been reached with the Central Bank.
4.20      Subproject Processing.  ADFU will set an appropriate "free limit"
for each PFI in regard to review and approval of subloans, in consultation
with the Bank. After a PFI has appraised a subloan and taken a formal
investment decision, it would submit its appraisal report to ADFU. Subloans
above the "free limit" for a PFI will require a detailed review and approval
by ADFU. In addition to the first-tier "free limit" described above, there
will be a second-tier "free limit" of $4.0 million above which subloans would
be submitted by ADFU to the Bank for the Bank's own review prior to approval
(para. 6.05). Subloans within the scope of ADFU-s "free limit" would be
authorized by ADFU for credit to the loan account subject only to the Bank's
acknowledgement of notification from ADFU. This would give ADFU adequate
authority to commit the loan proceeds, but would still leave a reasonable
number of subprojects (about 15%) that would require Bank-s prior approval.
However, before the ADFU's "free limit" becomes effective the Bank will
scrutinize a reasonable number of subloan reviews done by ADFU to satisfy
itself that ADFU has developed acceptable subproject review standards.
4.21      Supervision of Subprojects.  The PFIs will be responsible for
monitoring and supervising the implementation and operation of subprojects
financed by them. ADFU, through its monitoring of PFIs, will ensure that this
supervision of subprojects is being effectively carried out. For this purpose
ADFU would: (a) require the PFIs to submit periodic reports on their
supervision of subprojects; (b) periodically scrutinize the PFI's financial,
operational and project supervision records; and (c) provide guidance to PFIs
as appropriate on project supervision, in general, and supervision of problem
projects in particular.



- 35 -
4.22      Procurement and Disbursements.  As with DFC lines of credit, pro-
curement under the project would be made by the end users of funds and
supervised by PFIs. As a condition of its financing, ADFU would require all
PFIs to formulate and adopt appropriate procurement policies and practices
that would ensure that the goods and services to be purchased under its
financing are suitable and reasonably priced. Three of the prospective PFIs
(DBP, PDCP and PISO) are familiar with the Bank-s procurement requirements
and are in compliance with them; procurement is generally made on the basis
of competitive shopping. As for the new PFIs not conversant with the Bank-s
procurement requirements, ADFU would assist them in formulating and implement-
ing procurement policies. As with other DFC loans, clients of PFIs would be
required to canvass and submit competitive quotations from at least three
sources for major pieces of equipment/plant. ADFU would encourage PFIs to
apply international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures wherever warranted
by the size and nature of the purchase to benefit from the economies accruing
from this method of procurement. At negotiations the Bank and the Central
Bank reached an understanding on the outline of the guidelines on procure-
ments to be followed by ADFU as well as PFI (Annex 3). Moreover, ADFU's
policy on procurement quoted below, has been spelled out in its revised
operating policy guidelines (para. 4.07):
"ADFU will also review, for all projects, whether above or
below the free limit, the appropriateness of the
procedures followed or proposed to be followed by PFIs for
procurement of goods and services necessary to carry out
the project, and may propose modifications if these
procedures do not conform to criteria or guidelines set
out in the loan agreements with PFIs."
4.23      ADFU would require PFIs to adopt disbursement procedures that
would ensure that disbursements are made for their intended purposes and in
accordance with the terms of the supply contract. Withdrawal applications
from the PFIs would be reviewed by ADFU prior to their submission to the
Bank, in accordance with procedures agreed during negotiations. Disburse-
ments would cover the direct and indirect foreign exchange cost of goods and
services (para. 6.03), and would be made against normal documentation except
for small local expenditures of less than $10,000 equivalent; documentation
for such expenditures would be retained by ADFU for a post disbursement
inspection by the Bank, and the annual audit of project accounts would include
a separate opinion covering disbursements made from the loan account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
Resource Requirements and Allocations
4.24      Resource Requirements.  The Central Bank (ADFU) has already
evaluated the lending programs of the three initial PFIs (DBP, PDCP, and
PISO). Based on their resource requirements, ADFU proposes to allocate out
of its total foreign exchange resources, including the borrowings from the
international commercial sources, $60.0 million for DBP, $50.0 million
for PDCP and $40.0 million for PISO; these allocations are considered



- 36 -
appropriate. As regards the two or three additional PFIs that are expected to
be accredited during the project implementation period their resource
requirements are expected to aggregate $100 million.  On these assumptions the
total foreign exchange resource requirements of AFDU for covering the subloan
commitments of PFIs in the two-year period from mid-1981 to mid-1983 are
estimated at $250 million. The proposed Bank loan would provide $150 million
while the balance $100 million will be secured by the Central Bank from
borrowings from international commercial sources. The Central Bank has
agreed to arrange, by July 31, 1981, the additional $100 million for the
project by borrowing from international commercial sources.
4.25      Allocations to PFIs.  The proportion of Bank funds and commercial
resources allocated by ADFU will be identical for all PFIs. This will
ensure that each PFI will have the same mix of funds, at least in the
initial phase of the project. Although ADFU would make specific allocations
at the time of the accreditation of each PFI, these allocations will be
subject to periodical review and reallocations may be made based on the
performance of PFIs. The Bank would be consulted on both the original
allocations and any eventual reallocation.
5. PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFI)
5.01      This chapter summarizes ADFU's evaluation of PDCP, PISO and DBP, all
of which have applied to the Central Bank for accreditation as PFIs. In
addition, the chapter also contains a review of the salient characteristics
and features of the eight commercial banks and four investment houses identi-
fied by ADFU as potential PFIs. A more detailed review of the institutional,
operational and financial aspects of PDCP, PISO and DBP are given in
Annexes 4, 5 and 6 respectively.
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP)
5.02      Background, Objectives and Functions.  The privately-owned PDCP, a
leading DFC in the Philippines, was established in 1963 with the active
assistance of the Bank and IFC. Its objectives are to assist in the
development of privately-owned industries, promote and facilitate
participation of private capital from local and foreign sources; widen the
ownership base of Filipino enterprises; and help promote industrial
development and managerial expertise in the country. According to its
Articles of Incorporation, PDCP may extend loans, invest in equity, issue
guarantees, underwrite public offerings and syndicate loans.
5.03      Institutional Set-up and Capabilities.  PDCP's ownership is held
70.3% by Filipino and 29.7% by foreign stockholders; ownership is widely
distributed among nearly 1,300 stockholders. The Board of Directors has
provided PDCP with excellent guidance and management. PDCP has an active
and innovative management group. PDCP's staff represent a broad spectrum of



37 -
diversified professional skills, which enables PDCP to effectively meet the
varied needs of its clients. PDCP is also noted for its training institute
which provides well-organized, professional and issues oriented programs for
upgrading the quality of PDCP-s staff as well as staff from other Filipino and
overseas development finance institutions.
5.04      PDCP-s project appraisals are comprehensive and satisfactory.
Financial and economic rates of return are routinely calculated. Internal
processing procedures are well established. PDCP-s supervision policies and
procedures are basically sound with project supervision (planned project
visits, appropriate reporting on the project status and prospects) starting
at the time of loan signing and ending when the loan is fully repaid. Due
to the recent expansion of PDCP-s portfolio and staff constraints, however,
PDCP's supervision efforts have largely been restricted to projects
experiencing difficulties. Consequently, problems are not spotted early on
when they could perhaps be more easily dealt with. PDCP recognizes this
shortcoming and has initiated a number of measures including assignment of
more staff to supervision work, to improve its project monitoring capability.
5.05      Resource Allocation.  PDCP provides assistance in the form of
loans, equity investments, guarantees, syndication and underwriting. Loan
operations, however, represent the most important form of assistance. Since
its inception, PDCP has approved 715 projects and provided P 1,843 million
($246 million equivalent) in term loans; over 40% of these approvals were
made after 1977. PDCP offers three types of loans: loans to medium- and
large-scale industries mostly in foreign exchange; small business loans
generally in local currency; and agribusiness loans also mostly in local
currency. Although small loans have grown rapidly since 1975, loans to medium
and large industries still constitute the bulk (over 85%) of PDCP's loans. As
of year-end 1979, about 66% of total loan approvals went to the manufacturing
sector; the balance was for power, transportation, communications, construc-
tion, agriculture and mining projects. The regional distribution of PDCP's
loans is satisfactory with more than 76% of loans made since 1975 going to
projects located outside the Metro-Manila area.
5.06      Financial Aspects.  After experiencing slow growth in 1976 and
1977, PDCP-s total assets recorded much faster growth rates of 10.6%, 22%
and 15% (annualized) over the period 1978-March 31, 1980, at the end of which
total assets stood at P 1,274.2 million.  Both the short-term debt/equity
ratio and the long-term debt/equity ratio have been well within the contrac-
tual limits agreed with the Bank of 2:1 and 8:1, respectively. PDCP's
liquidity has been strained since 1976 as a result of declining loan collec-
tions and the general shortage of long-term peso funds. PDCP is taking steps
to improve loan collections and raise larger amounts of medium- and long-term
peso funds which should be facilitated by the recent financial sector reforms.
Before its accreditation, the Central Bank will require PDCP to prepare and
adopt specific satisfactory plans/programs to improve its liquidity position.



- 38 -
5.07      PDCP's major source of income is interest income from loans which
accounts for 80-85% of total gross income. Net income increased from P 16.5
million in 1975 to P 24.5 million in 1979, with a satisfactory 16% return on
average net worth, and is expected to exhibit a faster growth rate in the next
few years when the full impact of the 1978-79 growth in PDCP's lending
operations is reflected.
5.08      During the past few years, the quality of PDCP's loan portfolio has
shown some sign of deterioration with total arrears increasing from 4.3% of
total portfolio in 1975 to 7.2% in 1978. The major factors contributing to
this increase in arrears include a general business recession in 1975 and
1976, the overall unsatisfactory performance of the Philippine industrial
sector (Chapter 1), and a slackening in PDCP's supervision of projects (para.
5.04). In 1979, PDCP's management formulated a comprehensive program to
reduce arrears which included improving internal supervision procedures,
increasing supervision staff strength, and detailed reviews of past due
accounts to determine which to reschedule and which to foreclose. These
remedial actions have produced some results as indicated by the reduction in
loan arrears to 6.7% of outstanding portfolio in 1979 and 6.4% in 1980
(October) but much of this reduction is due to loan rescheduling. PDCP has
consistently made adequate provisions for possible losses on loans and equity
investments; as of March 31, 1980, these provisions amounted to P 22.9
million, or 2.4% of the outstanding portfolio which is adequate.
5.09      Prospects and Resource Requirements.  Although PDCP's peso
lending for small industries is expected to increase, the major thrust of
operations is expected to continue to be lending in foreign currency for
medium- to large-scale industries. Including approvals of other assistance
(equity investments, underwriting/private placements, guarantees and loan
syndications), PDCP's annual approvals are expected to reach P 1.0 billion
in 1980 and thereafter steadily increase to P 2.0 billion in 1984.
5.10      To achieve the projected growth in foreign currency loans up to mid-
1983, PDCP would require net additional foreign currency resources amounting
to $180 million. Of this amount, PDCP has applied for a $50 million
allocation under the proposed Bank loan and plans to raise the remaining
$130 million from other sources such as IFC, ADB, Commonwealth Development
Corporation and international commercial banks. PDCP expects to finance new
peso loans largely through the IGLF program and from internal cash generation.
However, the recent financial sector reforms should make it possible for PDCP
to mobilize its peso resources from the domestic market. An understanding was
reached with the Central Bank that it would require accredited institutions,
particularly PDCP and PISO, to make their best efforts to raise long-term peso
resources from the market and to appropriately increase their domestic
currency lending.
5.11      Projected Financial Position and Performance.  Based on its business
forecasts, PDCP expects its total assets to grow from P 1,229 million in



- 39 -
1979 to P 3,830 million in 1984. Additional cash contributions of P 25-30
million to paid-in capital are projected to be made annually starting in 1981
to enable PDCP to remain within the contractual long-term debt/equity ratio of
8:1 contained in its Loan Agreement with the Bank. ADFU, in terms of the
understanding with the Bank, would require PDCP to furnish it, as a condition
of accreditation, with a program for its future capital increases.
5.12      PDCP's net earnings are projected to increase from P 24.5 million
in 1979 to P 65.5 million in 1984, with an average annual increase of
P 8.2 million. Projected loan operations will continue to contribute the
largest share in earnings. Projected net income ranges between 1.8-2.1% of
average assets and 16.7-19.1% of net worth, which is satisfactory.
Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO)
5.13      Background, Objectives and Functions.  PISO, a privately-owned DFC
set up in 1974, is authorized by its Articles of Incorporation to undertake
all the functions of a development bank/investment house including development
oriented long-term financing, underwriting and merchandising of securities,
and syndication. During its initial years, PISO concentrated on short-term
money market operations and some loan syndications, but starting 1978 it
directed a substantial portion of its business towards term lending which was
facilitated by a $15 million loan from the Bank./l PISO is now one of the
three institutions in the country specializing in medium- and long-term
financing of industry.
5.14      Institutional Set-up and Capabilities.  PISO's existing paid-in
capital of P 33.8 million /2 is subscribed 30% by its only foreign stock-
holder, the Private Investment Company for Asia, S.A. (PICA), an interna-
tionally-owned private institution, and 70% by 16 local stockholders. PISO
and ADFU have reached an understanding that PISO would raise its paid-in
capital by a further P 10 million by the end of 1981, and would seek to
broaden the base of its shareholders.
5.15      PISO is a competently managed institution.  Broad policy guidelines
are set by its Board of Directors comprising eleven members including three
representing its foreign stockholder (PICA), seven representing the Filipino
stockholders /3 and one nominee of PNB./4 The Chairman of the Board is also
/1 Loan No. 1555-PH.
/2 PISO-s paid-in capital was increased in 1978 by P 10 million, which
was a condition of the Bank loan. PISO net worth as of March 31, 1980
stood at P 45.0 million.
/3 One of them is a Deputy Minister of Finance.
/4 PNB is the conduit for the Bank and ADB loans as the Government can
not guarantee borrowings of a private institution like PISO.



- 40 -
the President of PISO. PISO's staff have expertise in varied disciplines
including engineering, finance, economics, law and banking. PISO has agreed
with ADFU to recruit additional staff as needed by its expanding operations
and to hire the services of a manpower resource development specialist to
assist it in meeting its staff needs and to organize staff training on a
systematic basis.
5.16      PISO-s appraisal procedures are well thought out and standards
are satisfactory. PISO's appraisal reports generally cover all major
aspects of the project; due attention is paid to the project-s economic
viability (value added, exports, net foreign exchange savings and earnings,
employment generation and regional development) and to the technical
considerations (suitability of the technology, scale of operations and the
environmental impact). Economic and financial rates of return are calculated
for all loans above $750,000. As a condition of accreditation, ADFU would
require PISO to calculate ERR for all subloans above $500,000 using ADFU
financing.
5.17      Because of its relatively small project portfolio, PISO-s orga-
nization, policies and procedures for project supervision are not yet fully
developed. ADFU has therefore suggested and PIS0 has agreed to: (a)
strengthen the supervision organization; (b) prepare and adopt a comprehensive
project supervision plan; and (c) prepare a Project Supervision Manual to
spell out PISO-s supervision policy and procedures for the guidance of the
staff.  Progress made in this regard reviewed with the Central Bank at loan
negotiations was satisfactory.
5.18      Resource Allocation.  Since the start of its operations in early
1975 through March 31, 1980, PISO approved various forms of term financial
assistance totalling P 995.6 million.  Medium- and long-term loans and
loan syndications account for approximately 90% of PISO-s operations, while
the remaining 10% of total operations comprises direct equity investment,
guarantees, underwritings and private placements. PISO-s loans, which on an
approval basis, grew rapidly from F 3.0 million in 1975 to P 105.1 mil-
lion in 1979, fall into two broad categories: regular loans (loan in excess
of P 2.5 million) and small business loans (loan up to P 2.5 million).
The regular loans account for 48% of the total number and 89% of the total
amount of loan approvals so far. The small business loans are made to
small- and medium-scale industries and are almost entirely financed under
the IGLF program. The average loan size is about P 7 million for regular
loans and P 0.8 million for small loans.
5.19      By amount, about 56% of PISO-s loans have gone to the manufacturing
sector, with the remainder going to the telecommunications (19.9%), transport
(10.4%), mining (9.2%), and service (4.4%) sectors.  While balanced regional
dispersal of industrial investment and broadening of industrial ownership are
major development objectives set out in its Policy Statement, PISO has
achieved only limited success in these respects. Over 50% of its assistance
has gone to projects located in Metro Manila and about 90% for well estab-
lished clients. To improve the geographical distribution of its assistance



- 41 -
without incurring the significant expenses of establishing its own branch
network, PISO is entering into technical and financial collaboration with
selected private development banks outside the Metro-Manila area. Further-
more, PISO-s management has expressed its intention of allocating a much
larger proportion of its loans to new projects/enterpreneurs in the future.
ADFU, though its supervision of PIS0, would closely monitor PISOs progress
in this regard and, if necessary, would provide appropriated guidance.
5.20      Financial Aspects.  PIS0 has a sound financial position and a
satisfactory earnings performance. PIS0's total assets maintained a 35% p.a.
growth rate between 1977 and 1979, and amounted to P 231.3 million as of
December 31, 1979. As of year-end 1979, both PISO's total debt/equity ratio
(4.2:1) and long-term debt/equity ratio (2.2:1) were within the limits set in
the Bank Loan Agreement. Between 1977 and 1979, PIS0s net income nearly
doubled to P 6.1 million, representing 14.7% of net worth; an increasingly
greater proportion of income is generated by PISO0s long-term portfolio and
the relative importance of short-term operations has declined. PISO's Board
of Directors has so far followed a conservative dividend policy and has plowed
back about 50% of net income.
5.21      Even allowing for the rather short history of its operations,
PISOTs portfolio is in a remarkably good condition. As of June 30, 1980,
past dues amounted to only 0.3% of the total loan portfolio; only 1.7% of
the portfolio was affected by these defaults. Although PIS0 does not at
present expect any specific portfolio losses, as of December 31, 1979, total
provisions for possible losses stood at P 7.0 million, or 3.9% of total
short- and long-term portfolio.
5.22      Prospects and Resource Requirements.  Based on actual operations
in the first half of 1980 and the pipeline of applications, PIS0 expected to
approve new loans amounting to P 196 million in 1980, almost a 100%
increase over the 1979 level. Between 1981 and 1984, however, a modest
growth in new approvals of 14-19% per annum is expected. PIS0 would need
substantial additional resources to finance its new loan approvals. While
local currency resource requirements will largely be met through the IGLF
scheme and some mobilization of funds from the market, PIS0 will need net
additional foreign exchange resources amounting to about $93 million to cover
its foreign currency requirements through the middle of 1983. PIS0 has
recently obtained a second loan of $25 million from ADB; the balance is
expected to be met by borrowings ($40 million) from the Central Bank (ADFU)
under the proposed project and additional borrowings from ADB in 1983.
5.23      Projected Financial Position and Performance.  PIS0 expects its
assets to increase from P 231.3 million in 1979 to P 1,495.5 million in
1984 with the fastest growth (62% p.a.) occuring in its long-term portfolio.
Although PIS0 plans a P 10 million capital increase in 1981, even after this
increase it would exceed the present contractual long-term debt/ equity ratio
of 4:1. Given PISOs excellent performance, it has been agreed to raise its
contractual long-term debt/equity limit to 6:1. However, the Central Bank
would reach a firm understanding with PISO regarding the future capital



- 42 -
increases necessary to maintain the 6:1 ratio; this will constitute a
condition of PISO's accreditation.
5.24      PISO's gross income is projected to grow from P 24.0 million in
1979 to P 174.3 million in 1984; net income would increase from P 6.2
million to P 44.7 million.  In continuation of the recent trend, an
increasing proportion of income would be derived from interest income on
medium- and long-term loans.
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
5.25      Background and Role of DBP.  DBP was established in 1958 as an
autonomous Government-owned development bank and is by far the country's
largest supplier of long-term credit. In 1979, it was responsible for
financing 7.3%/l of gross fixed capital formation and at the year-end, its
long-term portfolio accounted for almost half of the total outstanding
long-term portfolio of the financial system. DBP's financing operations
encompass almost all segments of the economy, concentrating on the private
industrial sector and covering both large- and small-scale enterprises.  DBP
has also been active in providing loans to the agricultural, real estate
(mainly low-cost housing, hospitals, schools and hotels) and transport sectors
and income-generating projects of municipal and provincial governments. DBP
has, in addition, also been instrumental in promoting and developing a large
number of PDBs and rural banks throughout the Philippines and has assisted in
financing special Government programs providing relief to victims of natural
calamities, etc.
5.26      Major problems of DBP in early 1970s.  The Bank-s association with
DBP dates back to 1972 when a Bank mission undertook a preliminary evaluation
of DBP, which revealed serious weaknesses in its organization and financial
structure. Rather than being governed by a set of policies, DBP-s operations
were mainly guided by precedents established on an ad hoc basis.  It carried
out virtually no project appraisal other than an evaluation of the client's
credit standing and there was no systematic follow-up on its portfolio. DBP-s
financial position was extremely weak with a total debt/equity ratio of over
10:1, a current ratio of 0.2:1, 85% of industrial loan accounts in arrears
and 80% defaults on loans guaranteed by it. These problems were further
compounded by serious weaknesses and deficiencies in its accounting and
management information systems and inadequate audit of its accounts, which
made it impossible to assess its true financial situation. These weaknesses,
coupled with a policy of providing cheap loans at unrealistically low interest
rates, eroded its profitability, severely limited its capacity to mobilize
resources and made it completely dependent on Government for funding. As a
result, DBP's operations virtually came to a halt in 1971 when loan approvals
totalled only P 50 million compared to P 450 million in 1970.
/1 Net of refinancing operations.



- 43 -
5.27       Institutional Improvements in late 1970s.  With the support of the
Government and assistance of the Bank, DBP has made substantial progress
since 1972 as described below:
(a) Among the notable measures adopted for strengthening its
organization and establishing sound operating policies were:
(i) restructuring of its organization to emphasize sectoral
specialization; (ii) creation of a new department for better
handling of large problem projects; (iii) reorganization
of branches to improve their operational efficiency; (iv) adoption
of a "Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures" (1974) and a
"Statement of Reserves Policy" (1975); and (v) introduction of
management information and control systems.
(b) DBP has given considerable attention to developing suitable
operational procedures and improving standards. Its appraisal
reports on industrial projects now cover all aspects relevant to
an in-depth evaluation. The market analysis is less general and
more project specific; the technical feasibility is examined more
adequately; the environmental impact is carefully reviewed; FRR
and ERR are calculated for all projects involving financing of
over $500,000; and sensitivity tests have recently been introduced
as a consistent methodology. Successful efforts have been made to
introduce systematic supervision of projects and to establish
adequate follow-up procedures. However, further improvements both
in project appraisal and follow-up are needed (para. 5.29).
(c) DBP's financial position was considerably strengthened and in 1980
its share capital stood at P 3.2 billion as a result of
successive increases between 1972 and 1980. To improve DBP's
liquidity position, the Government provided support by maintaining
large deposits with it. Reflecting these measures, DBP's capital
structure significantly improved and as of March 31, 1980 it had a
total debt/equity ratio of 5.9:1 (as against a contractual limit
of 10:1), a long-term debt/equity ratio of 3.3:1 and a current
ratio of 0.6:1. To improve its financial position further, DBP
has progressively charged more realistic interest rates on its
loans. By 1980 the rates had been adjusted upwards to 16-18% for
large industrial projects, but were still below the present 21%
ceiling permitted on long-term loans. Notwithstanding the increase
in interest rates and the higher spread, DBP-s profitability
remains low. This can be attributed mainly to the continuing low
level of collections since DBP records its income on a cash (not
accrual) basis. Its net profit averaged only 5% of its net worth
between 1977 to 1979.



- 44 -
(d) The improvements in organizational and operational capability and in
DBP-s financial structure enabled DBP to significantly expand its
lending operations in recent years. DBP's loan approvals, which
ranged between P 50 - P 300 million a year in the 1971 to 1974
period, have exceeded P 2 billion a year since 1975. About 75%
of the new loan approvals relate to industrial projects of all
sizes. Since 1974, DBP has been very active in the financing of
small- and medium-scale labor-intensive industries.
5.28      Remaining Problems and Program of Action.  Although it has made
laudable progress towards strengthening its institutional capabilities and
financial position (para. 5.27), DBP continues to face a number of organ-
izational, operational and financial problems. These were discussed by the
appraisal mission and ADFU with DBP's management and government officials and
a "Program of Action" (Annex 6, Attachment 2) has been formulated to address
the remaining problems. At negotiations an understanding was reached with the
Central Bank that DBP would be required to implement certain items of the
"Action Program" prior to its accreditation and that the remaining items would
be implemented based on a schedule to be agreed with ADFU. Both the Bank and
ADFU would, on a regular basis, monitor closely DBP's compliance with its
agreed "Program of Action." A brief description of the major problems and
main elements of the "Action Program" is given in paras. 5.29-5.34.
5.29      The present organizational structure of Industrial Project Depart-
ment I (IPD I) and its staffing pattern are characterized by industry as well
as functional specialization in appraisal work and compartmentalization by
project status in follow-up work. While industry specialization has
contributed to improvement in appraisal expertise, excessive functional
specialization has resulted in lack of coordination in appraisal work and
division of supervision responsibilities by project status has brought about
lack of continuity and consistency in dealing with problems arising during the
implementation of projects. Suitable organizational changes have, therefore,
been proposed in the "Action Program" which will further promote industry
specialization and ensure better functional coordination of appraisal and
continuity in the supervision process.
5.30      As noted in para 5.27 (b), DBP-s capital structure has been sub-
stantially strengthened and is now adequate in relation to its indebtedness.
However, on account of chronically low loan recoveries, DBP's liquidity
remains largely dependent on the continuance of short-term deposits that the
Government maintains with it. To reduce this dependence and to improve DBP's
overall liquidity, covenants were incorporated in Loan No. 1572-PH in which
the Government agreed to: (a) give due consideration to DBP's liquidity
position before making any withdrawals from its deposits; (b) raise DBP's
paid-in capital from P 2.5 billion in 1978 to P 4 billion by 1981 or
such later date as may be agreed; (c) help DBP raise additional long-term
resources; (d) assist DBP in selling investments made at the Government-s
request in three large companies; and (e) arrange for payment of arrears on
several other loans made at the Government's behest.



- 45 -
5.31      The Government has taken some actions to implement these under-
standings, but much remains to be done.  In summary:  (a) the Government
has increased its deposits with DBP from from P 3.0 billion in 1977 to
P 4.4 billion in 1980; (b) the Government has already raised DBP's paid-in
capital to P 3.2 billion and taken the necessary legal steps to increase the
share capital to the required P 4.0 billion level which will be achieved by
1983; (c) the Government has actively assisted DBP in obtaining additional
resources totalling P 6.4 billion in 1978-79; (d) DBP has sold its
investments in three large companies for a total of P 2 billion to other
Government agencies.  These sales, however, are on a deferred payment basis
spread over 18-40 years, free of interest. Since these arrangements are
disadvantageous to it, DBP has undertaken to endeavor to renegotiate them to
insulate DBP against possible future losses and provide it with a return on
its investment during the period the payment remains deferred; (e) while the
Government has provided liquidity support to DBP, it has not cleared up all
the arrears on Government behest loans. The Government has not completely
executed this commitment because: (i) instead of providing direct compensation
the Government provided liquidity support to DBP by maintaining its large
deposits with DBP. The Government considers this arrangement more feasible
given its tight budgetary position; and (ii) it feared that DBP, assured of
automatic compensation, may not exert the efforts needed to recover these
loans. Whereas the Government's concerns are understandable, a clear
understanding between DBP and the Government on the principles and procedures
relating to Government behest projects is necessary. This issue is covered by
the "Action Program" (Annex 6, Attachment II). The Program envisages the
establishment of a Committee comprising Government and DBP representatives
which would decide which projects should be included in the list of Government
behest projects. DBP would prepare detailed semi-annual reports on the
status, prospects and problems of each of these projects. Moreover, DBP will
maintain separate financial accounts for Government behest projects and for
each fiscal year will submit to the Government through the proposed Committee,
its financial statements showing separately the financial results of
Government behest projects and its regular operations. If losses are incurred
by DBP as a result of implementing these projects thereby impairing the
financial viability and liquidity position of DBP, the Government, at the
recommendation of the proposed Committee would provide financial assistance to
DBP.
5.32      DBP-s continued low level of profitability reflects largely a poor
collection performance. However, in judging DBP's financial performance, it
is essential to recognize that DBP is a Government-owned development-oriented
organization and in pursuit of its development objectives it has often
financed projects which entailed a high degree of financial risk. As such,
DBP's profitability is not strictly comparable to private profit-oriented
institutions.  Nonetheless, to reduce excessive reliance on Government funds
and to ensure its own financial viability, DBP needs to maximize its earnings
within the constraints set by its developmental objectives. This would
require: (a) drastic measures to improve its collection performance; (b) a



- 46 -
satisfactory resolution of the issue of Government behest projects along the
lines proposed in para 5.31; and (c) further review and upward adjustments in
its peso lending rates.  DBP-s current long-term peso lending rates for large
industrial projects range between 16-18% p.a. which do not provide it with an
adequate margin vis-a-vis cost of its marginal borrowing (currently around
15-17% p.a.). Moreover, since DBP's long-term peso lending rates have been
lower than the market rates (21% p.a.), this discourages the active
participation of private financial institutions in long-term lending as they
cannot compete with DBP. The "Action Program" calls for a review and
adjustment in DBP's lending rates.
5.33      DBP's loan portfolio (P 12.8 billion) at the end of 1979,
although well diversified among various sectors, remains highly vulnerable to
cyclical changes in economic conditions, particularly because the industrial
sector has yet to overcome its structural weaknesses. This is reflected in
the unsatisfactorily high arrears and extremely low collections on DBP's loan
portfolio. Loan arrears rose from P 935 million (10.5% of total portfolio)
as of June 30, 1977 to P 1.5 billion (11.4%) /1 as of December 31, 1979 and
the loan collection ratio deteriorated from 57% of total collectibles in 1977
to 33% in 1979. Similarly defaults on guarantees increased from 8% of total
outstanding guarantees in 1977 to 20% in 1980. DBP needs to formulate and
implement a comprehensive set of measures to improve its collections.  For
this purpose the "Action Program" provides that a comprehensive review of
DBP's portfolio of large projects (where DBP's total exposure is $5 million or
more) will be undertaken to determine the true quality of this portfolio and
in the case of problem projects the specific remedial measures needed. This
review will be conducted by independent consultants appointed in consultation
with ADFU. On the basis of the review and recommendations, appropriate
actions and remedial measures will be taken by DBP/Government.
5.34      Measures taken in the past by DBP to rehabilitate problem projects
included conversion of arrears into new loans or equity investments and
disbursement of new loans to refinance clients' old debts to other lenders.
Such refinancing operations increased from P 1.2 billion in 1977 to
P 3.4 billion in 1979 and have proved ineffective in improving the portfolio
quality and/or the delinquency rate because: (a) many of these projects had
structural problems caused by distortions in Government's industrial policy
and in the absence of suitable policy changes, refinancing/restructuring was
not relevant to the solution of their problems; (b) DBP focussed mainly on
financial assistance rather than preparing a comprehensive package of remedial
measures (managerial, technical, marketing and financial). This excessive
emphasis on refinancing/restructuring has inhibited DBP from adopting a
problem solving approach to its project supervision work; (c) in some
instances of continuing delinquency DBP has resorted to what it calls
"dacion en pago" arrangements. In these cases borrowers are allowed to
surrender their assets to DBP in settlement of its claim and DBP in turn
/1 About 22% of these arrears relate to loans made at the government's
behest.



- 47 -
leases the assets back to the same borrowers on concessionary terms. This is
not a desirable practice. Therefore, DBP's policy on refinancing including
"dacion en pago," needs a thorough review and is covered by the "Action
Program."
5.35      DBP has made provisions for doubtful debts and has built up reserves
for contingency in accordance with its Statement of Reserves Policy.
However, the provisions do not adequately reflect possible losses on DBP's
equity investments, a large portion of which were acquired through conversion
of arrears of projects of doubtful viability (para. 5.34). DBP's auditors
shall undertake a thorough review of its portfolio (equity portfolio in
particular) and recommend a level of provisions that would more adequately
reflect the risks; appropriate provisions shall eventually be made by DBP.
5.36      DBP's Prospects.  DBP's projected level of loan commitments over
the next four years (1980-83) amounts to P 16.6 billion (about P 4 bil-
lion a year). The planned level of operations, which is in line with actual
operations in the first nine months of 1980 and project pipeline, is markedly
higher than the levels of the previous four years due mainly to the inclusion
of DBP-s special lending programs (for rehabilitation of cement and textile
industries and the expansion of gold mines). DBP's success in realizing its
projected operational targets would largely depend on its performance in
complying with the "Program of Action." DBP will need net additional foreign
currency resources of about $650 million to cover its operational requirements
up to the middle of 1983. Against these requirements, $250 million are being
arranged from various sources (such as US and Japan Ex-Im Banks, ADB and
DBP's direct borrowing from the international market) and about $100 million,
specifically for the rehabilitation of cement and textile industries
are being sought from the Government. The balance of its foreign currency
resource requirements is expected to be met from ADFU funds (about $60
million) and through additional borrowings from the Central Bank under the
Consolidated Foreign Borrowing Program. DBP's peso requirements would be
largely met by share capital increase, the issuance of countryside bills,
internally generated funds, advances from the Central Bank and additional
deposits, both Government and private. The revision in DBP's peso lending
rates envisioned in DBP's "Action Program," would facilitate its efforts in
raising funds through issuance of its countryside bills.
5.37      Based on the above operational and funding programs, DBP's total
assets are projected to grow at an average annual rate of 13% to P 40.1
billion at the end of 1984. A large part of the asset growth will be financed
by debt; as a result, the total debt/equity ratio is expected to rise from
5.9:1 as of March 31, 1980 to 6.5:1 in 1984, still well within its contractual
debt/equity limit of 10:1. DBP-s liquidity position is expected to remain
comfortable throughout the projection period, on the assumption that the
Government would continue to keep its deposits with DBP. During negotiations
the Government reaffirmed that it would manage its deposits with DBP in a
manner that would not impair DBP's liquidity. DBP's net income is expected to
rise gradually from P 178 million in 1979 to P 417 million; as a percent-
age of average total assets, however, net income would remain stable at a



- 48 -
level of around 1.2%.  If expected levels of collections are achieved, DBP's
debt service cover would be satisfactory at about 1.2 throughout the
projection period.
Commercial Banks
5.38      Financial Standing.  As of the end March 1980, the eight privately-
owned Filipino commercial banks identified by ADFU for possible participation
in the proposed Bank loan together accounted for 28% of total assets of all
domestic commercial banks and 42% of the assets of the privately-owned
Filipino banks. In terms of assets, six of these banks are among the largest
commercial banks in the country. The Central Bank considers all these eight
banks to be promising channels for the proposed Bank loan. A comparison of
the identified banks with domestic banks is given in Annex 7, T-6.
5.39      Although the debt/equity ratio of the identified banks ranged
from 8.5:1 to 17.1:1, they all are in compliance with the Central Bank's
minimum risk assets to capital ratio requirement of 10:1 and maintained a
satisfactory liquidity position. All these banks, with one exception, have
experienced satisfactory profitability. For 1979, net profit as a percentage
of net worth averaged above 14.0%, ranging from 14.4% to 31.4%, with the
exception of one bank which registered an 8% return on net worth in 1979.
5.40       Branch Network.  Although the head offices of the eight identified
banks are located in Metro Manila, they all have extensive branch networks
ranging from 13 to 122. In total, the eight banks have 419 branches all over
the country, comprising 38% of total number of branches of all domestic
private commercial banks.
5.41      Prospects.  All the eight banks perform a full range of commercial
banking functions as permitted by the Banking Law. While most of them have
not engaged in long-term lending they all have experience in making roll-over
loans to their clients. Most of these banks are interested in becoming
"expanded banks," and are in the process of meeting the minimum capital
requirement of P 500 million required for an "expanded bank." Once they
have acquired the status of an "expanded bank"(which will not be a condition '
of their accreditation)and the measures being taken by the Government to
encourage term lending have become operative, these banks are expected to
begin undertaking term lending. They all have good management and their staff
is well-trained in commercial banking. With additional staff training with
guidance from ADFU, these banks can reasonably be expected to undertake term
financing effectively. The establishment of an organizational structure
within each bank to undertake project financing would be a condition of
accreditation for ADFU financing.
Investment Houses
5.42      Financial Standing   The 12 investment houses in the Philippines
include PDCP and PISO, which are also development finance companies and whose
institutional characteristics and operations were discussed earlier in this



- 49 -
chapter (paras. 5.02-5.24). From the remaining ten, ADFU has identified
four investment houses as potential PFIs. Compared to commercial banks, the
investment houses in the Philippines are much smaller institutions, in terms
both of the range of activities performed and financial resources. The four
identified investment houses account for 48.5% of the total assets of
investment houses and within the group they possess a stronger resource base
and are more deeply involved in investment banking functions than the
average investment house (Annex 7, T-7). To date, investment houses have
generally exhibited better profitability than commercial banks. Net profit
as a percentage of average total assets ranged from a low of 1.7% to a high
of 5.1% for the four investment houses for 1979; net profit as a percentage
of average net worth ranged from 19% to 36% in 1979.  For the same year, the
liquidity ratios ranged from 0.9 to 1.1, and debt/equity ratios from a
conservative 5.6:1 to a relatively high 12.1:1. All the four investment
houses have maintained their risk assets to net worth ratios within the
permissible limit of 10:1. The maintaining of suitable gearing ratio would
constitute a condition of their accreditation.
5.43      Ownership aad Operational Capability.  While three of the four
identified investment houses have Filipino ownership of above 70% one is only
above 60%. Present regulations prevent institutions with less than 70%
Filipino ownership from benefitting from loans guaranteed by the Government.
Hence, the one investment house with less than 70% Filipino ownership would
need to reduce its percentage of foreign ownership to 30% to qualify as a
PFI. All four of the investment houses have good management. Their staff
have good professional qualifications and extensive experience in investment
evaluation and decision-making. The bulk of their operations consist of
money market operations and loan syndications. It is through the latter
activity that these institutions have developed their financial expertise
and contacts with the international capital markets.  Their operations are
however almost totally confined to Metro Manila.  The four identified
investment houses have a total of 19 branches outside Manila.
5.44      Prospects.  Given the regulatory changes recently made in the
Philippine financial system the investment houses are expected to face strong
competition for business from the large commercial banks. The more efficient
of these investment houses are expected to successfully face such competition,
and the four identified institutions have both the past record and the
potential to operate effectively and profitably.
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Justification and Risks
6.01      The major justifications for the loan are:  (a) continuation of the
Bank-s support for the process of financial sector reform in the country;
(b) the broadening of the Bank's institution-building assistance to cover not
only the three development finance institutions financed by the Bank in the
past, but also other institutions in the financial sector, including the



- 50 -
Central Bank, as an apex lending institution, and commercial banks; and (c)
resource transfer. The most important justification for the loan is that it
would enable the Bank to work closely with the Government on policy issues
concerning the country's financial sector. The Government introduced in 1980
a number of fundamental financial sector reforms (Chapter 2). The impact of
these reforms on the performance of the financial and industrial sectors would
be monitored closely during supervision of the loan and the dialogue with the
Government (including the Central Bank) on further reforms needed would be
pursued further in the context of subsequent financial sector loans. The
broad range of institutions participating in the proposed loan would enable
the Bank to expand its institution-building efforts, thus promoting the objec-
tives of the financial sector reforms by strengthening additonal financial
institutions and equipping them for development-oriented lending. For the
implementation of its development programs, particularly the structural
transformation of industry, the Philippines will continue to have to rely
substantially on a large inflow of external resources. The proposed loan and
the co-financed funds would help in this process by a net transfer of
resources amounting to US$250 million. The loan would be used for economic-
ally viable industrial projects. Since the individual projects to be financed
under the loan are not yet identified, an ex-ante quantification of their
economic impact is not possible. However, it is expected that, as a result of
the application of the financing criteria of the project and industrial policy
and financial reforms under implementation, the subprojects that will be
financed under the loan would be generally labor-intensive, efficient in terms
of resource utilization, and export-oriented and their ERR would normally
not be below 12%.
6.02      Risks.  The institutional arrangements for the project confer a
key role on the Central Bank, which would not merely administer the loan but
would have the main responsibility for guiding and supervising the PFIs.
The loan involves substantial delegation of functions by the Bank to the
Central Bank (ADFU) to assume, vis-a-vis the PFIs, the functions that the Bank
itself has performed in the past. In light of the foregoing, the capacity of
ADFU to implement its intended functions and to evolve into a strong,
development-oriented apex institution will be critical to the success of the
project and failure of ADFU to develop reasonable standards will constitute
a risk. However, given the Government's and the Central Bank's strong
commitment to ensuring the success of the industrial and financial sector
reforms, the good caliber of ADFU's management, the steps being taken,
including provision of technical assistance, to further strengthen ADFU, the
safeguards built into the loan to monitor ADFU's operation, and the
substantial involvemnent of the Bank in the initial stages of the project,
the prospects for successful project implementation are good. In any case
the risks inherent in the project are more than counter-balanced by the
potential macro-economic benefits that are expected to derive from Bank's
broader approach to industrial lending in the Phillippines.
Features of the Loan
6.03      Purpose.  The proceeds of the loan would be used to finance direct
imports of capital goods by eligible industrial enterprises and the direct and



- 51 -
indirect foreign exchange component of off-the-shelf procurements of imported
capital goods estimated at 70%, domestically manufactured capital goods
estimated at 50%/i and of civil works estimated at 45%./I
6.04      Amortization Schedule.  The Central Bank will repay the loan in
accordance with country terms, namely with a fixed repayment schedule of 20
years including a five-year period of grace. The proposed fixed repayment
schedule for the Central Bank is justified on the grounds that: (a) the
Philippines, of which the Central Bank is an agent, stands in need of
substantial borrowings on country terms; (b) it would facilitate cofinancing
arrangements for the project by enabling the Central Bank to blend the longer
term Bank funds with the shorter term commercial funds; and (c) it would help
simplify loan administration and thus would be consistent with the important
project objective of delegation of functions to the Central Bank. The second
generation funds accruing to the Central Bank would be used for relending
purposes and the corresponding exchange risk, if any, will be borne by the
Central Bank. It is expected that the loan would be fully committed within two
years and disbursed within four years of loan effectiveness (Annex 7, T-8).
The amortization schedule between the Central Bank and a PFI will reflect
approximately the aggregate of the amortization schedules between the PFI and
its subborrowers. It is expected that most of the subloans will have a
repayment period ranging from 6 to 12 years. Appropriate grace periods on the
Bank funds will be allowed to enable PFIs to blend Bank funds with commercial
funds which are likely to have a relatively shorter maturity.
6.05      Free Limit.  For reasons discussed in para. 4.20 the second-tier
"free limit" for subloans not requiring prior approval of the Bank has been
set at $4.0 million; this free limit would become effective after the Bank has
scrutinized to its satisfaction a reasonable number of reviews of subprojects
done by ADFU. The first-tier "free limit" available to each PFI would be
discussed and agreed with the Bank on a case-by-case basis.
6.06      Subloan Ceiling   To ensure that the projects funds are spread over
a relatively large number of subprojects, a subloan ceiling of $6.0 million
has been agreed with the Central Bank.
6.07      Foreign Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk on the loan and
on the co-financed funds would be borne by the ultimate subborrowers.
6.08      Relending Terms.  Funds from the Bank and commercial sources would
be onlent to PFI-s on different terms and at different interest rates
reflecting their respective borrowing terms and costs.  The proceeds of the
Bank loan would be on-lent to PFIs at an interest rate at least equivalent to
the interest rate charged by the Bank plus the Central Bank-s service fee of
3/4 of 1% per annum to cover its overhead expenses.  In addition, the PFIs
/1 The same rates are applicable on the Bank's previous DFC loan (No. 1572-
PH) to DBP.



- 52 -
would be charged a commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% p.a. on the undisbursed portion
of the loan allocated to them.  The PFIs will relend the Bank funds to their
clients with a maximum spread of 4.5%./1 Thus, on the basis of the Bank"s
present lending rate of 9.6% and the Central Bank-s minimum service charge of
3/4 of 1%, interest rate to be charged to the end-users would be in the
neighborhood of 14.85%, compared to 12.5-14% presently charged by PDCP and
PIS0 and 14-16% by DBP./2 The effective cost of Bank funds to the end-users,
taking into account the full foreign exchange risk, would be positive in
relation to the projected international inflation rates and also in line with
the present interest rate level (21%) on long-term peso funds. The
co-financed funds which will be borrowed by the Central Bank at floating
interest rates, will be onlent to PFIs at the actual cost to the Central Bank
plus a service fee of not less than 1/8 of 1% per annum.|3 The PFIs, in turn,
will relend these funds at a floating rate, with a maximum margin of 4.5%
(i.e., the same as the margin on Bank funds).
6.09      ADFU would keep the lending rates of PFIs under constant review and
if necessary, would revise its own onlending rate on uncommitted Bank funds
so as to enable the PFIs to bring their lending rates more closely in line
with market rates for comparable funds. Such reviews will be undertaken
every six months. New rates resulting from such reviews will be applicable
to new commitments to subprojects. The margin in excess of the 0.75% service
fee would be used by the Central Bank (ADFU) for project purposes.
Agreements and Understandings Reached at Negotiations
6.10       During loan negotiations the following agreements were reached
with the Central Bank on:
(a) the ceiling of US$6.0 million on subloans under the project (para.
4.02 and 6.06);
/1 Approximately the same spread presently accrues to PDCP and PISO on
existing Bank loans. An attractive margin for PFIs, particularly the
commercial banks, is essential to encourage them to lend long-term.
/2  This was the rate charged by DBP on the latest Bank loan (1572-PH).  DBP
raised its general interest rate to 16-18% in 1980 after the Bank loan
had been almost fully committed.
/3 Service fee is charged by the Central Bank at this rate on funds with
floating interest rate feature that are being presently relent to
financial institutions under the its Consolidated Foreign Borrowing
Program.



- 53 -
(b) the procedures relating to accreditation, evaluation and supervision
of PFIs and the Bank's participation in these matters (paras. 4.16
and 4.19);
(c) the disbursement procedures applicable to the proceeds of
the proposed loan and other resources of ADFU, (para. 4.23);
(d) the amount and timing of co-financing (para. 4.25);
(e) the relending terms from the Central Bank to PFIs and from
PFIs to the end-users (paras 6.04, 6.08 and 6.09); and
(f) the Central Bank's "free limit" of US$4 million on sub-
loans (para. 6.05).
6.11      In addition, during negotiations the Bank reached the following
understandings with the Central Bank on:
(a) the internal organization, staffing, and training programs
of ADFU (para. 4.11-4.14);
(b) the number of PFIs to be accredited (para. 4.18);
(c) guidelines on procurement for ADFU and PFIs (para. 4.22);
(d) the issues relating to PDCP (para. 5.06, 5.10 and 5.11) and PISO
(para. 5.14, 5.16, 5.19 and 5.23);
(e) specific measures to be taken to improve DBP's operations and
institutional set-up as spelled out in a "Program of Action"
(para. 5.28); and
(f) the accumulation of the Central Bank's service fee in excess of
3/4 of 1% and its use for project purposes (para. 6.09).
Recommendation
6.12      A loan of US$150 million with a maturity of 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years, is recommended, for the Central Bank of the
Philippines.



ANNEX 1
-54 -                             Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippine Government's Statement of Policy on the
Future Evolution of the Financial Sector
AiniofrLO F finanl
13 March 1981
Mr. PRbert McNamara
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Develcprent
1818 H Street
Washington, D.C., U. S. A.
Dear Mr. YrkNamara:
In connection with the loan application for relending to the private
sector, I wish to outline the financial sector policies which the Philip-
pines is pursuing.
Financial Sector Policy
1.  The Philippines is undertaking major reform  in its financial
system with a view to making it more respcnsive to the imperatives of
the next stages of eccnomic development. With increasing modernization
of the agricultural sector and the need to restructure industrial gr,7th
to operate in an internatimally more competitive environment, there
will be a growing demand for savings and for effective ways of c-armneling
such savings to priority investments. This will require not only a
higher rate of savings but also a need that a greater proportion of these
savings be in financial form and intermediated through the financial sys-
tem. Furthenrmore the availability of and access to longer term funds
will have to be increased.  Ihe efficiency of the system will also have
to be improved through increased cacpetition and possiblities of eccnomies
of scale. These are the underlying objectives tboards which changes are
being directed in the financial system.
2.  Ihe reforms are well advanced and cooTbine elements of evolution and
innovation. The reforms are addressed to both the suppliers' and users'
sides of the financial system and therefore conprehend the whole pro-
cess of financial intermediation.
3.  The key thrust is flexibility.  Institutionally, financial inter-
mediaries are being made more flexible by reducing the differentiation
among the various categories and broadening their powers. For exarJpl.e,
certain banks may now go into equity instead of confining themselves to



ANNEX 1
55                                     Page 2
lending. In monetary policy, the Monetary Board is exercising the
flexible powers newly conferred on it by law to simplify the interest
rate structure and make it more market-oriented. Savers can expect a
better return on their savings, while users must be prepared to bear
the cost of funds better reflecting the realities of a world infla-
tionary environment. Both savers and users are being given incentives
to go into long-term transactions.
4.      The authorities, however, are cognizant of the need to be prag-
matic and believe that a rigid adherence to strict models is bound to
create problems. The expansion of powers of certain categories of
financial institutions does not operate automatically; it is dependent
on a level of entreprenuerial skill, managerial expertise and resource
adequacy which must be monitored and encouraged by the authorities.
Likewise, the trend away from specialization does not absolve us from
the need for devising special programs for critical areas like agri-
culture and housing.
5.      Furthermore, unrestrained market forces solely determining levels
of interest rates are hard to justify at this stage in view of the fact
that the financial system is more of an oligopolistic system than a per-
fectly competitive one. Thus, the case for greater market orientation
has to be approached gradually and tempered by the need for regulatory
and indicative magnitudes which would serve as fulcrums around which the
system would function.
6.      The basis for the changes adopted in 1980 was set out in seven
laws, which amended the legislative framework of the banking system.
The legiLlative changes have been supported by appropriate revision of
banking regulations, changes in monetary policy and procedures and
amendments in tax laws to give needed fiscal incentives for achievement
of the objectives of the reforms.
7.      The heart of the reform consists of a revision of the banking
structure and has the following main features:
(a) The introduction of a new type of institution-
"texpanded commercial banks"- which would have
statutory ability to perform both commercial
and investment banking functions, including
investments in equities.
(b) A reduction in differentiation among the
various categories of financial institutions
by permitting thrift banks full domestic
banking powers and by changing the unit
concept of rural banks through regional
association of federations, or through
mergers and consolidations to branch banking
and to give them ability to mobilize larger
resources and service larger clients and to
diversify their activities.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
- 56 -
(c)  An increase in the powers of nonbank financial
intermediaries (NBFIs) and the grant to them
of access to Central Bank credit facilities.
(d)  The institutional structure has been made
flexible and the Monetary Board has been
given discretionary powers to permit one
category of institution to evolve into a
higher category.
8.      Subject to compliance with eligibility criteria, to be estab-
lished from time to time by the Monetary Board, commercial banks and
investment houses can apply to become "expanded" banks and thrift and
rural banks can seek to become commercial banks. Generally speaking,
the Monetary Board will permit movement from one category to another
on the basis of financial resources, technical and professional
capability and demonstrated past performance. Instead of the cate-
gorized specialization of the past, the functional growth of financial
institutions has now been made an evolutionary process, controlled by
discretionary powers vested with the Monetary Board.
9.      Besides the objectives of reducing categorized specialization
to bring about greater competition as between various types of insti-
tutions and to make their operations more efficient, one primary ob-
jective of the banking reforms is to lengthen the maturity of lending.
Accordingly, the following measures have been introduced:
(a)  The Government has adopted a flexible interest
rate policy and ha-- moved toward deregulation
of interest rates. Ceilings on loans of
maturities in excess of 730 days have been
abolished. Banks have also been permitted
to charge variable interest rates on their
long-term loans to protect lending margins
in situations where there is a rise in re-
placement cost of short-term funds used for
term lending. Likewise, to assist in
mobilization of long-term funds, interest
rate ceilings on all types of deposits have
been abolished, except on demand deposits
for which no interest is paid. However,
loans of up to 730 days' maturity will still
be subject to ceilings of 18% for chattel
loans and 16% for loans secured by land, both
of which already incorporate the 2% service
fee.
(b)  Reserve requirements agaYinst most deposit
funds are to be reduced.16% and made uni-
form for all financial intermediaries
authorized to accept such deposits. The
reduction will mitigate the cost pressures
on lending rates while standardization
shall place lending



ANNEX 1
Page 4
- 57 -
institutions on a more equal footing to
enhance competition. Undesirable excesses
in liquidity that may result from such re-
ductions will be controlled by appropriate
measures like open market operations.
Conversely, a 5% reserve requirement shall
be imposed on long-term deposits (over
730 days) that will provide both a monitor
and control mechanism on the growth of such
deposits. The magnitude of such a require-
ment is deemed to have only a marginal effect
on long-term lending rates.
(c) Rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank
to extend perferential credit to priority
activities have been further simplified. Re-
discount value of loans were narrowed down to
two ranges: namely 100% and 80%. Rediscount
rate and the corresponding ceilings on lending
rates have also been reduced resulting in three
basic spreads of 3, 6 and 9 per cent between
the rediscount rates ana the lending rates.
(d) A lender-of-last resort facility on a consistent
and essentially automatic basis has been estab-
lished by the Central Bank to enable banks to
tide over temporary liquidity problems that
might arise as a result of term transformation
or other factors.
(e) The Government has provided a number of fiscal
incentives to the commercial banks to become
itexpanded banks" and lengthen the maturity of
their lending. The gross recipts tax now pro-
gressively declines as loan maturities get longer
and there is no such tax on interest income on
loan maturities exceeding seven years. More-
over,dividend income of the "expanded banks" will
be exempt from corporate tax. Finally, the
capital gains arising from banks' mergers and
consolidation will also be exempt from tax.
(f) The Monetary Board has been given discretionary
powers to lower the equity to risk assets ratio
to provide increased leverage to banks to en-
able them to increase their long-term loan portfolio.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
_ 58 -
Provided the banks neet the necessary cnditions, their
risk assets ratio can be reduced fran 10% to 8% or even 6%.
10.  Ihe Governnent intends to mnmitor closely the performance of the
financial sector, and will ensure, through such additional measures as
may be necessary, that it fully and adequately supports and assists in
the realization of the objectives of Government's industrial policy.
Khereas Government will remain sensitive to ensuring that the financial
needs of develcpment are being fully met and would take necessary legis-
lative, regulatory and administrative actions, the following are sae
inportant specific cbjectives which the Government would seek to achieve
in the next tWDo years:
(a) lhe initial net worth eligibility of P500 million for
licensing of "expanded banks" reflects the cautious atti-
tude on the part of the Govemnent. Investment banking,
particularly equity financirg, requires a scphisticated
organization, professional capacity and financial strength.
On the other hand, Government is cognizant of the fact that
"expanded" authority in the hands of only a few large
instituticns may not result in sufficient cmpetition
and the needs of the smaller borrowers and new entrepre-
neurs may not be satisfied. It is, therefore, (bvernnent's
intention to make "expanded' banking more broad-based by
encouraging wider public ownership and conpetiticn among
a larger number of "expanded banks" either by hastening
the process of institutional mergers and consolidation so
that more institutimns become eligible and/or by lowering
the net worth qualification limit. Such action, however,
will be taken after Government has had sufficient opportu-
nity to evaluate the performance of expanded banks that
are now being licensed and after it has acquired sufficient
kno-how to monitor and guide their operations.
(b) The Government has already adopted measures under
its industrial policy to encourage the expansion
of export industries and, in addition to fiscal
incentives, short-term special discounting facilities
are available in the Central Bank for export finance.
The Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee
Corporation has established a guarantee facility
for loans to exporters from commercial banks. In
addition, a Cottage Industry Guarantee Fund has
also been set up to support the financial require-
ments of the cottage industry that is predominantly
composed of small-scale producers and mainly oriented
towards exports. In the light of changing export
,structure, the need for a medium-term export finan-
cing was considered which resulted in the recent
creation of the Export Credit Corporation.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
- 59 -
(c) Althoujh the 1980 financial sector reforms will strengthen
the rural banking system, it is one of Cbvernumnt's cbjectives
to further examine the working of rural banks to make +hem
less dependent on (bvernmrent funds, mnre businesslike in
their approach and mire self-sustaining and profit-oriented
in their operations.
(d) The crucial area of agricultural credit as a whole needs to
be examined in the respective roles of the various government
financial institutions such as Land Bank of the Philippines,
the DeveloFruent Bank of the Philippines and the Central Bank,
as well as private financial intermediaries. The cbjective
will be to ccnstruct an agricultural credit structure which
will best suit the needs of this sector. The susceptibility
of agricultural crops to adverse factors beyond the control
of the farTer-borrtwer undermines the latter's capacity to
service his det, weakens the credit systen and inpairs his
access to further credit. In spite of extensive governrment
programs to control and minimize such unpredictable factors
and their adverse effects on farm production, crop failures
will continue to occur. Nevertheless such prograrm have to
same extent reduced the risks of crop failure and improved the
feasibility of reasonably priced insurance protection on a
sound actuarial basis for scre crops. The Philippine Crop
Insurance Corporation has been set up recently and shall
initially extend coverage to rice crop where actuarial data
on yields and losses have been established for past ten years.
Coverage shall expand to other crops as more experience in
gained.
(e) The provision of housing remains one of the major concerns of
the Gbvernment. The resource ntbilization capacity of thrift
banks for home financing is expected to be increased by the
banking reforms. In addition the Gbvernrent has already set up
several entities including the Hae Mrtgage Finance Corporation
and the Hcae Matual Developrrent Fund with the cb jective of
increasing available housing finance. Developments will be
nonitored and kept under reviEw to encourage private investnrent
and initiatives in the financing and supply of housing.
(f) The (bverntent is cognizant of the need to make more efficient
use of insurance and social security funds. These funds are
essentially long term in nature but, on the other hand, considering
their social security character, it is necessary to protect them
fram excessive risk exposure. The (bvernmant is aware that in
the past, social security and insurance funds have been used for
direct investment in projects which may have carried excessive
risk and liquidity exposure. It is CDvernnent's intention to use
insurance and social security funds in the future as an inportant
cponent in the developrent of a long term financial market.



ANNEX 1
Page i7
For this purpose it shall. seek to devise policies hih, without
exposing such funds to undue risks, will ensure thec ficw to the
most financially and econa  all desirable sectors. It limit
the risk without interfering in the direction of ultimte flc>r of
funds the G)vernment will encourage .sudc funds to be invested in
high grade bonds and securities.
(g)  The Central Bank extends discounting facilities on a preferential
basis to chanel credit to desirle econamic activities.  The
GbveymEnt is aware that sucn subsidized allocative disconting
can result in misallocation of resources. To safeguard against
this, this preferential rediscaunting policy shall constantly be
reviewed in order to ensure that only sectors justified by rigorws
ecnanic analysis will receive preferential treatmbnt. The recent
sinplifications of the structure of rediscomunting provides an
ixproved frarnework for such caparative analysis.
(h)  The (venment recognizes that in the final analysis  a grewing
part of the long-tern credit reeds for developentwill have to
be net by the capital market. This has becxre rtre urgent because
'expanded banks" would need an active secondary market to revolve
their portfolio and generate liquidity for further investment in
equities. On the other hand, tie participation of these banks will
reinforce support for non-speculative issues in the stock market.
While steps have been taken to develop the capital market-incluiding
the licensing of stock exchanges, estzblishrent of the Securities
and Exchange Caunission, and revision of the cammercial code to
provide a legal framarork for its grewth- these measures have not
resulted in the desired strLicture, with stock market activities
daninated by highly speculative transactions. Therefore, the
Gvernent intends to prepare a plan of action to develop, strengthen
and streamline the network of institutions and regulatory authorities
constituting the capital market.
11.    The specialized (bverrnent banks were created by the Cbverrrent to cater
to particular needs.  Wile these institutionswill, in their operations, continue
to stress the purposes for which they were created, they will, on the other hand,
align themselves more closely with the dbjective of the (bvernent ts current
developTent policy and will be given greater autonamy and freedan in portfolio
selection. The Gbvernment intends to reviEw the regulations governing the
interest rates charged by these institutions to ensure that their rates are
omipatib le with both Cbvernment's current interest rate policy and with the
dbjective of develoFment of long- term lending by private financial institutions.
12.    The Gbvernment believes that realistic interest rates increase financial
savings and improve allocation of resources and, in principle, it favors positive
real interest rate in relation to inflation. Hcwever, complete deregulation of
interest rates in the Cbverunent's view is undesirable at this tine.  Rapid
changes in interest rates in response to short term fluctuations in the
inflationary situation could be destabilizing and result in an uncertain financial



ANNEXl
Page 8
- 61 -
climate. Besides, such change may be unnecessary, particularly when the
Cbverrment is adopting other neasures open to it to control inflation. An
excessively high rate of interest can cgirplicate efforts to contain inflaticn.
Ihere are transactions balances, such as demand deposits and even perhaps
savings deposits to scme extent, which are interest- inelastic and it would
be a misapplication of interest-rate policy to use it in a shotgun fashion.
Mbreover, the financial imarket is not a perfectly ccorpetitive one and market
rates may reflect the influence of oligopolistic eleaents. In the context
of these considerations, the Gbvernment is comnitted to the general princi-
ple of positive real interest rates, both on tine deposits and loans.
Positive real rates nest, hcwever, be based on definitive underlying infla-
tionary trends, as distinct fron short--term fluctuations in price indices
brought about by transitory or external factors beyond Cbwermnent's control.
In this regard, the Gbvernrent will establish suitable criteria and set up
apprcpriate mechanism for a regular review of the interest rate structure,
including interest paid on savings deposits and NOW accounts.
In view of the thrust to further develop the industrial and financial
sectors, we would appreciate your favorable consideration of the 03vernuent' s
request for a financial sector loan of $150 million. We have developed
this proposal and the reforms in the financial and industrial sectors in
close coxperation with the Bank and, therefore, we look fonward to the
antinuing Consultations about the prograrn of inplentation.
Sincrely yours,
CEAR VIRATA
Minister of Finance



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Operating Policy Guidelines of the Apex Development Finance Unit
Central Bank of the Philippines
Framework
1.        This paper sets forth the objectives and basic principles of
policy and operating procedures of the Central Bank APEX Development
Finance Unit (ADFU). The policies and procedures will apply to all lending
operations of ADFU.
Objectives and Goals
2.        The dominant objective of ADFU is to assist in promoting and
financing sound industrial development in the Philippines, in line with
government policy and in coordination with other Central Bank offices and
other government offices/institutions by chanelling funds through suitable
financial institutions capable of evaluating sound investment proposals and
able to undertake efficient intermediation of medium- and long-term
financial resources. To achieve these objectives ADFU will perform, among
others, the following major functions:
(a) administer financial resources provided/loaned to the Central
Bank by international lending agencies and by other sources
acceptable to Central Bank for relending by ADFU to
participating financial institutions (PFIs) for financing the
medium- and long-term needs of the Philippine industrial
sector, all in accordance with national economic priorities;
(b) make continuing efforts, but subject to stringent tests of
admissibility, to enlarge the number of institutions receiving
ADFU's financial assistance with a view to making industrial
finance widely available and making improvements in the general
level of efficiency in term lending and investment banking
operations of Philippine financial institutions, particularly
in the matter of resource use and resource mobilization; and
(c) to provide guidance and assistance to PFIs for improving their
organization, intermediation efficiency, and project evaluation
capability.



- 63 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 2
Approval of PFIs
3.        ADFU financing will be available only to accredited financial
institutions. Accreditation of PFIs will be approved by the Monetary Board
of the Central Bank of the Philippines on recommendations by ADFU. The
prerequisite to accreditation of a PFI will be a detailed evaluation of the
applicant-institution, taking into account the following major criteria:
(a) sound financial position and performance as evidenced by
balance sheets and income statements and a healthy and
sound portfolio;
(b) sound operating policies and procedures and a well-articulated
plan and strategy for future operations which will ensure
a development orientation, continued viability and financial
strength of the institution;
(c) an organization basically sound in its structure and a management
and operating staff of undoubted competence and possessing all
requisite expertise to undertake technical, economic and
financial appraisal of projects and their supervision; and
(d) compliance with all relevant laws, decrees and regulations to
the satisfaction of all regulatory authorities.
ADFU may, where necessary, recommend to the Monetary Board to prescribe
conditions, consistent with Central Bank's existing rules and regulations,
with regard to capital structure, operating policies, strategy and planning
for future operations and organization and staffing which it would like to
see fulfilled before approving an institution as a PFI. ADFU may in
addition recommend to the Monetary Board to prescribe conditions, among
others, with regard to size of loans, exposure limits, gearing ratios and
dividend and reserve policy of PFIs, and terms and conditions governing
subloans, including interest rates and repayment terms. The appropriate
Central Bank Departments and/or Offices will be duly consulted by ADFU
while drawing up condition6 of accreditation.
4.        Government-owned financial institutions applying for accreditation
will be required to meet the following two additional conditions as a
prerequisite of their accreditation:
(a) support from the Government, in form and substance acceptable
to ADFU, that the applicant institution will be given financial
assistance against losses arising from undertaking of projects
which do not meet the normal banking criteria, but are considered
by the Government as economically and socially desirable, after
taking into account the overall financial viability and liquidity
position of such applicant institution; and



- 64 -
ANNEX  2
Page 3
(b)  a commitment by the applicant institution that its lending
terms (in particular, interest rates) would be generally
consistent with the interest rate policy of the Government
and with the objective of development of a competitive market-
oriented long-term lending market.
Use of ADFU Loans by PFIs
5.        ADFU loans to PFIs will be used to finance:  (a) economically and
commercially viable projects consistent with the Government's development
plans in the manufacturing industry, tourism (Government-approved tourist
facilities outside Metro Manila), mining, shipping and agro-industry; and
(b) capital assets, including but not limited to plant sites, factory
buildings, plant equipment and fixtures and their installation and transport
equipment. ADFU will not ordinarily permit its loan to be applied for
refinancing of existing debts.
Project Selection and Appraisal
6.        ADFU will not involve itself in selection and evaluation of
projects and this function will be exercised by PFIs in accordance with
established and agreed criteria. ADFU will, however, review project
appraisals prepared by PFIs and take a decision in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 below.
Free Limit
7.        ADFU will establish a "free limit" for each participating
institution. Projects whose financing needs fall within the "free limit"
will not require a detailed review by ADFU and funds will be released after
ensuring that the documentation is complete and the terms and conditions of
the loan are in accordance with agreed criteria. Appraisals relating to
projects whose loan requirements exceed the "free limit" will be reviewed
in detail in accordance with provisions contained in paragraph 9.
8.         The "free limit" for each individual PFI will be determined by
ADFU and, where required, by agreement with ADFU's creditors. The free
limit may, from time to time, be increased or reduced depending upon the
performance of each PFI. In determining the "free limit" for PFI, ADFU
will take into account the maturity of the institution and its capacity to
identify, appraise and supervise projects.
Review by ADFU of Projects in Excess of Free Limit
9.        Appraisal reports of projects whose financial needs are higher
than the "free limit" will be submitted by the PFIs to ADFU for its review
and approval. The appraisal reports will provide all necessary data



- 65 -
ANNEx 2
Page 4
required to establish the technical, financial and economic feasibility of
the project.  ADFU may, on the basis of its review of the appraisal
reports, either approve a project for financing and authorize release of
funds for disbursement except in cases where a final approval of ADFU's
creditor is required, or seek additional data or suggest a new line of
evaluation or propose modification in the project design and concept or
reject the project as not suitable for financing.
Procurement Policy of ADFU
10.        ADFU will review, for all projects, whether above or below the
"free limit," the appropriateness of the procedure followed or proposed to
be followed by PFIs for procurement of goods and services necessary to
carry out the project, and may propose modifications if these procedures do
not conform to criteria or guidelines set out in the loan agreements with
PFIs.
Monitoring of Performance of Projects
11.       Each PFI will be responsible for monitoring and supervising the
implementation and operations of projects financed by it. ADFU, through
its monitoring of the PFIs, will ensure that the supervision function is
being effectively carried out and, in particular, that projects facing
problems are being constantly reviewed, their difficulties are being
analyzed, remedial measures are being prescribed and all necessary steps
are being taken to assist such projects in overcoming their problems while
at the same time, protecting the PFI's investment in the project. To
effectively perform the monitoring functions ADFU shall: (a) require the
PFIs to submit periodic reports in a prescribed form; and (b) send represen-
tatives to PFIs to inspect their financial, operational and project
supervision records.
Monitoring of PFIs
12.        ADFU will monitor the performance of PFIs to ensure that they
continue to operate in conformity with sound principles and are upgrading
the quality of their staff and their appraisal and analytical skills. ADFU
will undertake a performance evaluation of each PFI at least once each year.
Relationship with End-Users
13.        The lender-borrower relationship will exist between the Central
Bank and PFI and not between the Central Bank and the ultimate beneficiaries.
Contacts with project entities or visits to projects shall be made by ADFU
through the particilar PFI.



- 66 -
ANNEX  2
Page 5
Autonomous Status of ADFU
14.       Within the parameters of its duties and responsibilities as
defined by the Monetary Board and subject to such regulations as the
Monetary Board may from time-to-time prescribe, ADFU will be a unit
reporting directly to the Governor of the Central Bank and responsible to
him. In pursuing its objectives ADFU will act as an autonomous unit, but it
will operate within the broad scope of Central Bank's rules and regulations.
Staffing
15.       ADFU will adopt all necessary measures to ensure that it is
adequately staffed with qualified persons.  Recruitment will emphasize
professional skills and employment will ordinarily be on a full-time
regular basis, though in the initial stages, secondment of suitable Central
Bank staff on a temporary basis for specific assignments may be considered.
ADFU will provide training opportunities to its staff to upgrade their
skills.
Accounting and Auditing
16.       The Central Bank will maintain ADFU accounts in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and will have them audited by
appropriate qualified and competent auditors.
AEPID
April 1, 1981



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Outline of ADFU's Guidelines on Procurements (draft)
1.        All subproject appraisal reports, regardless of project/loan size,
will contain a description of the procurement process foreseen (or actually
initiated, if that is the case), with a statement of why the procedure chosen
is the most appropriate. (ADFU may query any project in this respect, whether
within or above the free limit allowed to the PFI.)
2.        When the proposed subloan is above the PFI-s free limit, the
appraisal report must specifically consider/discuss ICB, and make a case,
among alternatives, for method chosen (whether ICB or other). ADFU must
obviously be satisfied before approving the subproject, and may query and
suggest reconsideration of the method chosen before approval.
3.        When the proposed subloan is above ADFU's free limit of $4 million,
the PFI will do basically the same thing, but with the presumption that ICB
is appropriate (i.e., the PFI must make a convincing case, if ICB is not
chosen, why it was appropriate not to do so). ADFU will add its endorsement
to the PFI report on this point before forwarding the project appraisal to
the Bank. After some experience has been acquired, the Bank and ADFIJ will
consult, from time to time, about the criteria used in reaching decisions,
and whether the overall trend would seem to be reasonable.
4.        Guildelines will be worked out, in the light of gradually acquired
experience, together with PFIs, as to what criteria to use in the considera-
tion of, not just ICB, but various procurement methods. The suggested
procedure above may be modified, as necessary, in consultation with the Bank.
5.        The Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Central Bank
and Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Central Bank and PFIs will
stipulate that "the methods and procedures to be used for the procurement of
goods and services required for the Investment Project" will be included
among the items mandatory in the description of the Project.
6.        There will be included in the Subsidiary Agreements with the PFIs
following clause to reflect the responsibility of these institutions to induce
and monitor appropriate procurement methods for projects financed by them.
"For projects financed by [PFI], [PFIJ will endeavor
to ensure that acceptable practices are followed in
the procurement of goods and services necessary to



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
carry out the project, with a view to enable a
reasonably broad domestic and international
selection and considered comparison of bids,
offers or quotations to ensure optimum quality
at the best possible price."
AEPID
March 3, 1981



ANNEX 4
69                                    Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP):
A Review of the InstitLtional, Operational and Financial Aspects
Background, Objectives and Functions
1.        PDCP, one of the country s leading investment houses, was set up
in 1963 with the active support of the Bank and IFC./l. Its objectives are to
assist in the development of privately-owned industries, promote and
facilitate participation of private capital from local and foreign sources;
widen the ownership base of Filipino enterprises; and help promote industrial
development and managerial expertise in the country. To attain these
objectives, PDCP's Articles of Incorporation, inter alia, empower it to
undertake all necessary functions including extending loans, investing in
equity, issuing guarantees, underwriting public offerings and syndicating
loans. In the 17 years of its existence, PDCP has developed into a mature DFC
and has made a significant contribution towards the growth of the country-s
private industry.
The Economic Role of PDCP
2.        PDCP is next to DBP as the most important source of long-term
finance for industry in the country. Over the 1975-79 period, PDCP-assisted
projects accounted for 2.1% of the total capital formation of the country. As
a matter of policy, PDCP closely aligns its operations to the economic
priorities set by the Government, but it remains very selective in its choice
of projects, assisting only those which satisfy its criteria for financial,
managerial, technical, market and economic viability. PDCP assists both
large-scale and, to a lesser extent, small-scale industries, including
projects relating to mining, public utilities, transport and manufacturing.
3.        As of September 30, 1979, PDCP had assisted 860 projects with
loans and investments amounting P 2.6 billion. Including investments by
the project proponents and other institutions, total investment in these
projects amounted to about P 6.6 billion. Upon completion, these projects
are estimated to generate some P 9.6 billion in incremental annual sales,
of which P 3.4 billion would be export sales. The annual foreign exchange
earnings/savings of these projects net of import requirements, was estimated
to be P 2.7 billion. The gross value added of the projects financed by
PDCP was estimated to amount to P 5.7 billion, while net value added was
estimated at P 4.5 billion.
/1 Besides the Bank loan of $15 million, IFC participated in PDCP-s initial
capitalization through an equity investment of $210,000 (since sold).



ANNEX 4
- 70-                              Page 2
4.        Resource Allocation.  On the whole, resource allocation by PDCP
has been efficient. This is borne out by the fact that the financial rate
of return for a representative sample of 151 PDCP-assisted projects ranged
from 9% to 54% with an average of 25.2%; the range of economic rates of
return, for a sample of 73 projects, was 11% to 90%, with an average of
38.2%. Through its small business loans, PDCP maintains a balance in its
lending between SMI and large-scale industry. Small loan approvals have
increased rapidly from P 3.6 million in 1975 to P 33.2 million in 1979.
In addition to financial assistance, PDCP provides valuable technical and
managerial assistance on project formulation and implementation to small
entrepreneurs. PDCP-s assistance continues to be well-distributed
throughout the various industrial sectors and subsectors, with no undue
exposure in any single industry. PDCP also continues to place high priority
on projects located outside Metro Manila. To this end, PDCP has established
six branch offices and plans to open more in the future. Consequently, the
geographical distribution of PDCP's loans is more diversified than the typical
pattern of industrial investment in the Philippines.
5.        Employment Generation.  An important criterion used by PDCP for
project selection is the project's potential for generating new jobs. PDCP
does finance large capital-intensive projects but only after a careful
consideration of other economic merits of the project and relative priority
of the industry in the context of the country-s development. A primary
objective of launching of PDCP's small business financing program in 1972
was to assist in the establishment and development of labor-intensive
projects. As of September 30, 1979, PDCP-assisted projects are estimated to
have generated some 43,000 fiew jobs with an average cost per job of $20,800.
Average cost per job for small loans was about $5,200 while for regular loans
it was $27,500 in 1979.
6.        Resource Mobilization.  The country-s financial environment has, in
the past, seriously constrained PDCP-s ability to mobilize long-term resources
and as a result, PDCP has had to rely largely on official resources for funds.
About 85% of PDCP's long-term resources (P 2,273.5 million) as of March 31,
1980 were raised from official sources (the Bank, ADB, Commonwealth Develop-
ment Corporation (CDC), USAID and IGLF) (Annex 4, T - 1). Apart from its
equity funds (P 165.7 million), the resources mobilized by PDCP include peso
borrowings through the issuance of medium-term notes payable (P 63.4 mil-
lion), and foreign currency borrowings of $15 million from IFC and $10 million
from a consortium of banks headed by the Bank of Tokyo. Considering the
circumstances and constraints, PDCP's resource mobilization efforts have
achieved reasonable results. The country-s financial sector reforms of 1980
should improve PDCP-s ability to mobilize domestic resources in the future.
In addition to raising resources directly for its own use, PDCP indirectly
helps its clients in raising both domestic and foreign currency resources
through its local and international syndications; funds so far mobilized
through syndications amount to $34.7 million in foreign exchange and P 147.0
million in domestic currency.



ANNEX 4
- 71 -                          Page 3
7.        Other Developmental Activities.  PDCP also undertakes a number of
nonfinancial development activities. It performs and publishes selected
industry studies/market profiles which help entrepreneurs identify attractive
investment possibilities open to them; provides training in the field of
development finance not only for its own staff, but also for the staff of
other private and Government institutions in the Philippines and from abroad;
and organizes special conferences and industry dialogues to discuss major
industry problems.
Institutional Aspects
8.        Ownership, Management and Staff.  PDCP's ownership is distributed
70.3% among Filipino and 29.7% among foreign stockholders. The ownership is
widely distributed and there are nearly 1,300 stockholders. Among the
Filipino stockholders, the maximum concentration of holding with one group
(Trans Pacific Investment Corporation) is only 12.8%; the rest of the stocks
are held among a large number of unrelated groups and individuals. The
foreign stockholders are institutions from USA, UK, Japan, West Germany,
France and Switzerland.
9.        PDCP-s Board of Directors /1 has 11 members from diverse, but com-
plementary professional fields and who operate very effectively in overseeing
PDCP's management and operations. The Board sets policies and the general
directions, reviews PDCP-s actual performance and approves new financial
commitments. PDCP possesses an organization structure which is adequate for
achieving its objectives and has remained basically unchanged since 1976.
PDCP remains a dynamic institution and its Board and management remain
sensitive to the need for change should evolving circumstances so warrant.
Some changes in organization may be needed to deal with the challenges of a
more competitive business environment following the financial sector reforms,
to provide for more opportunities for internal staff promotions and to further
reduce the staff turnover rate (see para. 10). PDCP has an active and
innovative management group, headed by its President, a cofounder of PDCP
associated with PDCP-s management since its inception who is an outstanding
development banker of international repute. He is ably supported by a team
of competent executives.
10.       PDCP-s staff resources represent a blend of people with different
backgrounds and academic disciplines enabling PDCP to effectively meet the
varied needs of its clients. As of March 1980, professionals comprised 68% of
its total manpower complement of 267. In the late 1970s, PDCP faced a high
turnover rate but through various measures taken, it has been able to reduce
its turnover rate from 23.5% in 1976 to 11.9% in 1979. Given the rapidly
/1 Eight Directors represent Filipino stockholders and the remaining three
foreign stockholders. Besides stockholders respresentatives Filipino
Directors include one representative each from the Government, the
guarantor of the IBRD and ADB loans, to PDCP, and the PNB, the conduit
for such loans.



ANNEX 4
- 72 -                              Page 4
growing demand for the industrial financing skills possessed by PDCPs' staff,
staff turnover rate is likely to remain relatively high.  Ilowever, on account
of the regular staff recruitment and training programs in effect, PDCP's
standards are not likely to be adversely affected by staff turnover.  PDCP's
training institute is well organized, and its programs are pragmatic,
professional and issue-oriented.
11.       Policies, Procedures and Standards.  PDCP-s Statement of General
Business polices adopted by its Board of Directors in 1964, inter alia pro-
vides for the usual financial prudence limits, portfolio diversification,
sound financial and dividend policies and investment criteria (Annex 4,
Attachment 1). These provisions are further supplemented by Board resolu-
tions. The Policy Statement sets out a set of investment and project selec-
tion criteria and provides that investments should be consistent with Govern-
ment priorities and sound financial practices. The economic and developmental
impact of a project are among important criteria used by PDCP in determining a
project's merit. PDCP has consistently followed the policy guidelines both in
letter and in spirit.
12.       PDCP's project appraisals are comprehensive, and satisfy the
criteria for appraisal set out in its policy statement. PDCP fully examines
the technical, financial, and economic viability of the projects it assists,
calculates financial and economic rates of return of the projects, and
examines other economic indicators of project viability on a consistent and
invariable basis.  PDCP's technical appraisal is generally comprehensive, but
so far it has not been very successful in encouraging the project proponents
to modify their project designs so as to adopt technology better suited to
local conditions, particularly labor intensive technology. This is largely
due to the fact that PDCP in the past concentrated on BOI approved projects
which, to modify, would have required fresh BOI approval. With improvements
in BOI's own economic analysis capabilities resulting from assistance being
rendered under SAL I, PDCP should be able, in the future, to influence project
design more materially. At negotiations an understanding was reached with the
Central Bank that it would require PDCP to endeavor to play a more meaningful
role in project design and choice of technology by getting involved with
project at its formulation stage. PDCP's internal project processing pro-
cedures are streamlined which ensure careful and quick consideration of all
relevant aspects of each project, including a thorough scrutiny of each
appraisal by the senior management.
13.       PDCP's'supervision policies and procedures are basically sound.
Supervision of projects commences from the time of signing of the loan/
investment agreement and ends when the loan is fully repaid or the invest-
ment is sold. PDCP staff are required to visit each project at least once
every quarter during construction and at least once a year when the project
is in operation; clients are required to submit progress and financial
reports on a regular periodic basis. Recently, however, because of the
rapid expansion in PDCP's portiolio, iull regular supervision has often been



ANNEX 4
- 73 -                           Page 5
restricted to projects experiencing difficulties.  The disadvantage of this
practice is that problems are not spotted until they have seriously affected
project performance. PDCP fully recognizes this shortcoming and has already
initiated organizational changes and is assigning a larger number of staff for
supervision work. In addition, PDCP has initiated an action program to deal
with and assist problem accounts. The results of these problem-solving
efforts have so far been encouraging (para. 21).
Operations
14.       PDCP's project assistance can be classified into five major cate-
gories: loans, equity investments, guarantees, loan syndications and under-
writing. In addition, PDCP actively operates on the short-term money
market. The table below summarizes financial assistance approved by PDCP
Summary of Operation
(P million)
3 mos.
1975      1976        1977         1978          1979        1980
No. Amt.  No.  Amt.   No.  Amt.  No.   Amt.  No.  Amt.  No,  Amt.
Loans          46  89.1  43   97.1   83   81.9  127  321.0  117  360.6  18  109.2
Equity & in-
vestment       5   6.2   8    6.8    5    4.3    4   11.8    2   13.8   1    3.0
Guarantees      4  16.0   4   24.2    3   49.1    1    3.0    7   68.7   1   25.6
Loan syndi-
cations        4  18.9   3   59.4    8   50.1    8  120.0    8  158.0   2   14.0
Under-
writing/
private
placements    2   5.0   3   12.5    7   25.8    9   40.3   10  107.0   1    9.0
External fund
management    -      -   -       -    -       -    -       -    2    2.6   3    8.0
Total      61 135.2  60  200.0  104  211.2  148  488.2  146  710.8  26  168.9



ANNEX 4
Page 6
- 74 -
since 1975, details are given in Annex 4, T-2. From an initial level of
P 40.7 million in 1964, PDCP's annual financial assistance has steadily
increased to P 710.8 million by the end of 1979. Loans are by far the most
important form of assistance and accounted for over 55% of the assistance
approved since 1975 by amount and about 80% by number of projects. Loan
syndications contribute 22% of the amount of assistance but, by number, such
transactions are not very significant (6%).
15.       Loan Operations.  Since its inception, PDCP has approved 715
projects and provided P 1,843 million ($246 million equivalent) in term
loans (Annex 4, T - 3). These are all medium- to long-term (5-12 years) loans
in local and foreign currencies. Following an uncertain fluctuating pattern
between 1974 and 1977, PDCP's loan approvals recorded a dramatic increase in
1978, and have since maintained a rising trend. For the period 1975-77, loan
approvals were adversely affected by the general worldwide economic recession
and increased competition for prime clients from the newly established OBUs.
However, adoption of an aggressive business promotion strategy, realignment of
its lending terms to market rates and streamlining of internal procedures
enabled PDCP to more than recapture its share of business.
16.       PDCP's lending operations are divided into three categories: (a)
general loans which comprise loans to medium- and large-scale industries; (b)
small business loans; and (c) agri-business loans. Although small loans have
rapidly grown since 1975, general loans still constitute the bulk (over 85%)
of PDCP's loans. The general loans are largely (over 85%) in foreign
currency, while the small business loans are invariably in pesos. Of total
loan approvals in 1979, about 66% went to the manufacturing sector; the rest
were for electricity, transportation, communications, construction, agricul-
ture and mining. There has been a relatively stable sectoral distribution of
project assistance. The pattern of geographical distribution of PDCP-s loans
is satisfactory; more than 76% of the loans made since 1975 are located in
areas outside Metro Manila. Characteristics of PDCP's loan approvals are
shown in Annex 4, T - 4.
17.       Other Forms of Assistance.  PDCP sometimes makes equity investments
in conjunction with its loans. New equity investment approvals since 1975
represent only 2.4% of total assistance approved. PDCP also guarantees the
repayment of foreign and local currency obligations incurred by manufacturing
companies for import of machinery and equipment. Guarantee approvals in 1979
amounted to a record high P 68.7 million. Since 1975, PDCP has managed 33
syndications of long-term loans involving US$34.7 million in foreign exchange
and and P 148.2 million in domestic currency. Finally, to help develop the
local capital market, PDCP has engaged itself in underwriting the sale or
private placement of corporate debt or equity securities. Such commitments



ANNEX 4
page 7
- 75 -
have been made both on a "firm" and a "best efforts" basis. The volume of
such operations has expanded over the years, from a total of P 5 million for
two projects in 1975 to P 107 million for 10 projects in 1979.
Financial Aspects
18.       Financial Position.  PDCP's balance sheets as of December 31, 1979
and March 31, 1980 are summarized in Annex 4, T - 5. After experiencing slow
growth in 1976 and 1977, PDCP's total assets recorded much faster annual
growth rates of 10.6% for 1978, 22% for 1979, and 15% for the first quarter of
1980 (annualized). The composition of PDCP-s assets has experienced little
significant change over the past few years. The outstanding term loan
portfolio has consistently accounted for 70-80% of assets over 1975-80 period.
The trend of PDCP's liability composition over the years has been parallel to
that of its assets and therefore has remained relatively unchanged. Long-term
debts comprise the major proportion (60-75%), while current liabilities
comprise 10-20% of total liabilities and equity. Except for 1976, when PDCP
last increased its share capital by P 11.9 million, the almost 50% build-up
in PDCP's equity between 1975 and 1980 (March 31) has been through plowback of
income. Long-term/debt equity ratio as of March 31, 1980 stood at 5.6:1, the
highest since 1975, but is well within the contractual limit of 8:1 set by the
Bank. Similarly, PDCP's short-term debt/equity ratio has been within the
contractual limit of 2:1 with an actual ratio of 1.5:1 as of March 31, 1980.
19.       PDCP's liquidity position has been under pressure since 1976;
between 1976 and 1980 (March 31) the debt service cover declined from 1.2 to
1.0 and the liquidity ratio declined from 1.5 to 1.2 (Annex 4, T - 7). The
tight liquidity position is the result of: declining loan collections (see
para. 21); PDCP's policy of meeting the corresponding maturing obligations to
its borrowers for projects in arrears pending final agreement with the
subloans on restructuring arrangements; and a general shortage of long-term
peso funds. PDCP is taking a number of steps to improve its liquidity
including raising larger amounts of medium- and long-term peso funds in the
form of notes and bonds (this effort should be facilitated by financial sector
policy reforms of 1980), and improving loan collections. The liquidity aspect
would however be closely watched by ADFU during subsequent monitoring of PDCP.
20.       Operating Performance.  PDCP-s summarized income statements for
1975-80 (March 31) are given in Annex 4, T - 6. PDCP's major source of income
has remained interest income from loans which accounts for about 80-85% of the
the total gross income; the remaining 15-20% comes from short-term operations,
capital market operations and other sources. PDCP's net income increased from
P 16.5 million in 1975 to P 24.5 million in 1979. As a percentage of
average total assets, net income has increased from 2.0% in 1975 to 2.4% in



ANNEX 4
-76-                                 Page 8
1978, with a slight decline to 2.2% in 1979.  Net income as a percentage of
average equity has remained at around 16.0% for the period 1975-79. Net
income is expected to grow at a faster rate in the next few years when the
full impact of the growth in PDCP's lending operations in 1978 and 1979 is
reflected.
21.       Quality of Portfolio.  The status of PDCP's loan portfolio is
presented in Annex 4, T-8. As of July 31, 1980, total loan portfolio stood at
P 1,009.7 million (US$134.6 million) to 368 clients. In the past five
years, the quality of PDCP's loan portfolio has shown some signs of deter-
ioration, with total arrears rising from 4.3% of total portfolio in 1975 to
7.2% in 1978; the ratio of portfolio affected by these arrears has risen from
14.9% in 1976 to 18.7% in 1978. Besides the overall unsatisfactory macro
performance of the Philippine industrial sector, the factors that have contri-
buted to the rise in loan arrears include a business recession in 1975 and
1976, the liquidity crunch in the banking sector in 1978 and 1979 and the
declining intensity in PDCP-s supervision of projects. In 1979, PDCP-s mana-
gement formulated a comprehensive program to reduce past dues. These
remedial actions consisted of improving internal procedures, increasing staff
strength and competence in PDCP's supervision group, detailed review of past
due accounts with a view to assessing and providing the necessary package of
assistance needed by clients experiencing problems capable of being remedied,
and identifying projects for foreclosure proceedings. These remedial actions
were discussed in detail by PDCP management with both the Bank and ADFU staff
prior to and during their implementation. These actions have produced
encouraging results as indicated by reduction in loan arrears to 6b7% in 1979
and 6.4% in 1980 (October). However, part of this reduction was the result
not of cash collections, but finalization of long overdue restructuring of a
number of accounts. Real improvement in the quality of PDCP's portfolio would
lie in larger future loan collections. ADFU will monitor closely PDCP's
collection performance and suggest, if necessary, appropriate additional
measures. PDCP has consistently provided for possible losses on loans and
equity investments. Total provisions made for this purpose amounted to
P 22.9 million or 2.4% of the portfolio as of Mtarch 31, 1980 which is
adequate. There have been no defaults on PDCP-s guarantees.
Prospects
22.       Development Strategy for 1980s.  PDCP-s development strategy for
the 1980s will be to continue operating as a development finance company,
with an operating and financing strategy consistent with national develop-
ment goals. PDCP plans to (a) step up its contribution to the domestic
capital formation by establishing higher targets of financial assistance to
productive enterprises; (b) diversify its own sources of foreign exchange
funds in line with PDCP's increased efforts to service its clients growth
and the more complex capital requirements that such growth would entail; (c)
continue to diversify the regional distribution of its portfolio; (d) fur-
ther expand its Small- and Medium-Business Term Lending (S4BTL) through con-
tinued accreditation with IGLF; and (e) continue to train its own staff and



ANNEX 4
Page 9
to disseminate PDCP's expertise to both the private and the public sectors
through training programs tailored to their needs.  PDCP has been able to
achieve its earlier development strategy, initiated in 1977, with a
significant degree of success, and assisted by the financial and industrial
sector reforms of 1980, it should be in a better position to refine and
diversify its project selection process and achieve an even greater degree of
economic impact in its financing.
24.       Business Expectations and Forecasts.  Although PDCP's peso lending
for small industries is expected to increase, its major thrust in operations
is expected to continue to be lending in foreign currency for medium- to
large-scale industries. Based on official statistics, PDCP has projected the
market for its lending operations to grow at a compounded annual rate of 22%,
or from US$459 million in 1982 to US$1,025 million in 1984 for foreign
currency loans, and from P 1,242 million in 1980 to P 2,777.8 million in
1984 for its peso loans. PDCP's own share in the potential market is expected
to improve from 31% in 1980 to 38% in 1984. Foreign currency loan approvals
are expected to reach P 381.9 million in 1980 and further grow to P 504.2
million in 1982 and P 664.4 million in 1984. Peso loans are projected to
rise from P 125.0 million in 1980 to P 189.2 million in 1982 and P 225.4
million in 1984. Including approvals of other types of assistance (equity
investments, underwriting/private placements, guarantees and loan syndi-
cations), the total magnitude of PDCP's assistance is expected to reach
P 1.0 billion in 1980 (P 740 million in 1979), P 1.4 billion in 1982 and
P 2.2 billion in 1984. Details of PDCP's projected operations are given in
Annex 4, T-9.
24.       Resource Requirement   Over the period, 1980 to mid-1983, PDCP would
require net additional foreign exchange resources of US$180 million to meet
its targets for foreign currency loans. PDCP has applied for a $50 million
allocation under the proposed Bank loan and it proposes to raise the remaining
$130 million from other sources such as IFC, ADB and CDC. Considering that
PDCP has raised funds from these sources in the past, the target of mobilizing
additional foreign currency resources appears capable of being reached. PDCP
is already discussing with IFC the possibility of raising $30 million. It
expects to finance its new peso loans largely through IGLF and from internal
cash generations. If, however, the long-term peso market develops, which is
expected as a result of the financial reforms, PDCP would endeavor to raise
long-term peso resources from the market and expand its peso lending.
25.       Projected Financial Condition.  Based on its business forecasts,
PDCP has projected its total assets to grow from P 1,229 million in 1979 to
P 3,830 million in 1984, mostly through an increase in its loan portfolio
(Annex 4, T-10). The long-term loan portfolio is projected to continue to
constitute the bulk of the assets (72-77%). Likewise the bulk of PDCP's
long-term liabilities are projected to be foreign currency borrowings. The
forecasted stockholders equity will maintain its 10-11% share in total



-78-                                   ANNEX 4
Page 10
resources. Beginning 1981, PDCP would need additional annual cash contri-
butions (P 25-30 million per annum) to enable it to remain within the
contractual long-term debt/equity ratio (Annex 4, T-13). Before approving
accreditation, ADFU would require PDCP to submit its plans for future
increases in its capital and compliance with the contractual long-term debt/
equity ratio.
26.       PDCP's net earnings are projected to increase from P 24.5 million
in 1979 to P 65.5 million in 1984, with an average annual increase of P
8.2 million (Annex 4, T-ll). Notable, however, is the sharp growth of
earnings from P 33.5 million for 1981 to P 47.0 million for 1982 due to
expansion in operations. Projected loan operations are forecasted to continue
to generate the biggest share in earnings and projected net income will range
between 1.8-2.1% of average assets and 16.7-19.1% of net worth.
AEPID
January 27, 1981



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippine
Statement of General Business Policies /1
1.        Economic Role of PDCP - The Corporation shall assist in the
economic development of the Philippines. To this end it will assist in the
development of private productive enterprises in the country by providing
medium, long-term and equity financing to such enterprises, assisting in the
development of a wider market for corporate securities, encouranging a wider
distribution of ownership in such enterprises.
2.        Privately-Controlled Industrial and Other Productive Enterprises -
The term "privately-controlled" as used in the Articles of Incorporation
will be taken to mean all enterprises wqhich are privately operated and
managed, and where private ownership is a controlling interest (at least 2/3
of the voting stock). The mere fact that such firms have secured loans from
government financial institutions, or that the government holds a minority
equity position (up to 1/3 of the voting stock) will not exclude such firms
from receiving assistance from the Corporation.
3.        Non-Control of Enterprises Financed - The Corporation will not
seek to control any of the enterprises that it finances and will not
participate in the management of such firms.
4.        Diversification of Investments - In managing its portfolio, the
Corporation will endeavour to diversify its investments - in terms of the
type of industries being financed, the location of such industries, and as
to whether funds are used for medium or long-term loans, or for equity
investments. Having regard to its developmental objectives, the Corporation
will give priority to increasing the number of enterprises it finances, to
assisting medium and small firms as well as large, and to diversifying the
ownership of client-enterprises. In this connection, the Corporation will
seek to broaden the enterpreneurial base in the country, by making special
efforts to assist qualified enterprises that, by virtue of their size, age
or ownership, do not have as ready access to other financial institutions as
the larger, better established industrial enterprises in the country.
/1 Adopted by the Board on March 10, 1964 and amended by Board Resolutions
No. 264-66 on July 15, 1966; No. 333-68 on January 16, 1968; No. 456-70
on June 19, 1970; and No. 559-72 on September 12, 1972.



-80 -                            ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 2
5.   Maximum Investment
(a)  The Corporation shall not normally make an investment in any one
investment enterprise, if at the time or as a result thereof the
total investment (as hereunder defined) of the Corporation in
such investment enterprises shall exceed an amount equivalent to
25% of the sum paid-in unimpaired capital, surplus and reserves to
the Corporation and the amount of the AID loan not due and payable.
(b)  In general, the Corporation's investment in any one investment
enterprise shall not exceed 50% of the total assets of the
investment enterprise including PDCP-s investment.
(c)  For the purposes of this policy, the term "investment" shall refer
to loans, equity participations and guarantees.
6.        Retirement of Equity Investments - The Corporation looks upon its
equity investments more as an assistance to productive enterprises and will
seek to retire and dispose of its shares, as soon as this becomes feasible
and a fair price can be obtained for its shares.
7.        Diversification of Ownership - The ownership of the Corporation
will be diversified as widely as possible, and reasonable efforts will be
taken to prevent any one person, entity, or group from dominating the owner-
ship or management of the Corporation.
8.        Reserve and Dividend Policy - The Corporation will pursue a
prudent dividend policy that will enable it to provide shareholders with a
fair return on their investments while at the same time ensuring that its
surplus reserves grow at a reasonable rate. The Corporaton will from time
to time appropriate a portion of its retained earnings to surplus reserves.
The Corporation will also provide by charges against income valuation
reserves consistent with the size and quality of the Corporation's loan and
equity portfolio.
9.        Exchange Risk - The Corporation will protect itself adequately
against foreign exchange risks arising out of its operations.
10.       Criteria in Processing Loan Applications - Loan applications filed
with the Corporation will be processed on the basis of their economic and
business merits. The projects will be analyzed as to their economic
desirablity, technical feasibility, financial soundness, management
competence, etc., to ensure that only sound productive expenditures are
financed.
11.       Technical Assistance to New Enterprises - The Corporation will
endeavor to provide the necessary technical service to the enterprises being
financed whenever necessary.
AEPID
11/3/80



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Long-Term Resource Position, March 31, 1980
Foreign Currency (Net of Cancellations)                                          (US$ million)
IBRD loans .................................................. 124.6
ADB loans .................................................. 99.1
IFC ..........             .......................................   15.1
Commonwealth Development Corporation .......               .......................   10.9
Bank of Tokyo .................................................   10.0
DEG ...........              ......................................    2.6
Total Foreign Currency Resources  .......              ...................... 262.3
Less:   Total loans disbursed ............            .......................... 186.0
Resources available for disbursement  .......              .......................  76.3
Less:   Undisbursed commitment  ...........            ...............  ........  34.4
Resources available for commitment ........               ........................  41.9
Less:   Uncommitted approvals .         ....................................... 16.9
Resources available for approvals  ...........             .......................  25.0
Domestic Currency                                                                 (P million)
Equity
Share capital .................................................    73.4
Reserves and retained earnings .........              .........................  92.3
Total Equity ................................................. 165.7
Borrowings (net of repayments)
AID loan .................................................. 24.8
IGLF . ................................................. 50.3
Compensatory deposits  . ..........................................    6.7
Notes payable .................................................    63.4
Total Borrowings.............................................. 145.2
Allowance for doubtful accounts .            ....................................  21.6
Total domestic currency resources ........               ......................... 332.5
Less:   Domestic currency loans outstanding /a .....                ................ 216.3
Equity investments /b ............           ..........................  24.3
Net property and equipment  ........            .........................    9.5
Acquired assets .............................................   20.2
Other long-term assets  ...........           ..........................  17.7
Subtotal .......................................                      288.0
Resources available for disbursement  ...........             ...................  44.5
Less:   Undisbursed commitments /c . ................................  30.1
Resources available for commitment . ................................  14.4
Less:   Uncommitted approvals ......................................   14.8
Resources shortfall for approvals . ................................( 0.4)
/a  Includes long-term portion of domestic currency loans outstanding
of P 195.0 million and excess of foreign currency loans outstanding
over the corresponding foreign currency borrowings of P 21.3 million.
/b  Net of allowance for losses and of subscriptions payable.
7T   Consisting of P 23.2 million for loan commitments and equity subscriptions
payable of P 6.9 million.
/d  Includes long-term commercial papers of P 8.2 million.   Amount excludes
IGLF approvals of F 7.3 million.
AEPID
10/31/80



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Summary of Operations, January 1, 1975-March 31, 1980
(P  000)
Accumulated
1980        total 01/01/75
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979        (Three months)   to 03/31/80
No.  Amount    No.  Amount    No.  Amount    No.  Amount    No.  Amount    No.   Amount    No.  Amount
Approvals
Loans                               46   89,094    43   97,120    83   81,897   127  321,013   117   360,013   18   109,246   434 1,059,017
Equity Investments                    5    6,230      8    6,771      5    4,318      4   11,819      2    13,800    1       3,000    25    45,938
Guarantees                           4   16,000       4   24,200      3   49,055      1    3,000      7    68,701    1    25,642    20   186,598
Underwriting/Placements               2    5,000      2   12,500      5   25,785      8   40,345    10   107,015    1        9,000    28   199,645
Syndications                         4   18,875       3   59,380      8   50,192      8  111,978      8   158,000    2    14,000    33   412,425
External Fund Management             -         -      -        -      -        -      -         -     2      2,625    3      8,024      5    10,649
Total Approvals                  61  135,199    60  199,971   104  211,247   148  488,155   146   710,798   26   168,912   545 1,914,282
Commitments
Loans                               53  110,970    50   83,934    80  100,512    89  137,356   135   402,749   19    73,378   426   908,899                    X
Equity Investments                   5    6,230       7    6,623      6    6,327      4   13,102    10    13,393    1        3,000    33    48,675
Guarantees                           -         -      1    1,200      1    5,500      2   26,709      2    14,200    2    13,500        8    61,109
Underwriting/Placements (Firm)        2    5,000      2    5,508      3   22,200      7   36,510    10   107,015    1        9,000    25   185,233
Syndications                         4   13,895       3   59,380      8   50,192      7  111,978      8   158,000    2    14,000    32   407,445
Total Commitments                64  136,095    63  156,645    98  184,731   109  325,655   165   695,357   25   112,878   524 1,611,361
Disbursements
Loans
Equity Investments                  93  176,418    87   77,812   110   73,877   143   93,673   159   318,187   56    65,661   648   805,628
Guarantees                           3    3,612       7    6,029      5    1,109      2       377     7    13,838    3       7,656    27    32,621
Underwriting/Placements (Firm)        1      215      1    1,200      2   14,000      3   47,207      1      4,179    2    13,500    10    80,301
Syndications                       4- 1385-           1    23806                      31115
Totdicalisburns                        ,        3   59,380    8   50            7 31117 q7A0     8 6 158'8o800  2 1  14,80800  3214 40)1756
Total Disbursements           101  194,140    99  146,801   128  147,354   158  263,535   181   583,104   64   109,817   731 1,444,751
Outstanding
Loans
Equity Investments                 282  699,661   247  699,141   381  744,271   434  759,459   475   924,096  508   930,851
Guarantees                          29   31,193    34   38,831    36   40,635    32   35,399    30    40,829   30    48,485
Underwriting/Placements (Firm)       9   28,729       9   22,173    11   31,061    10   70,178    11    83,006   13    97,911
Syndications                         2    5,000   - -                         _                       3    13,000    2    11,000
Total Outstanding               322  764,583   290  760,145   428  815,967 476  865,036   519 1,060,931  553 1,088,247
Money Market Operations
Average Monthly Volume                    59,552          50,285          44,942          59,032           124,804         184,796
AEPID
January 27, 1981



- 83 -                                                                                   ANNEX 4
Table 3
PHILIPPI iMS
INDUSTRIAL FINASCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippine
Summary of Loan Operations, 1975 to harch 31, 1980
(P -000)
1975                   1976                    1977                    1978                    1979             Ist Ouarter 1980
No.  Amount      %     No.  Amount       %     No.  Anount       h     No.  Amount      %      No. Ao,ount      %      No.  Ano->t      Z
Approvals
General Projects
Foreign currency           10   67,339   75.6    13   87,350   S9.9    12   51,782   63.1    20  243,080   75.6    32  298,528   82.7              7   46,570   R8./,
Local currency             10    8,110    9.1       4    2,600    2.7       5    8,355   10.2    10   33,070   10.3    14   22,300    6.1          2    6,9n0    6.3
Subtotal               20   75,449   84.7    17   89,950   92.6    17   60,137   73.3    30  276,150   85.9    46  320,828   88.8               9  103,470   94.7
Agribusiness
Foreign currency            3    8,665    9.7       1      724    0.8      1    1,106    1.3       4    7,412    2.3       1    5,932    1.6       1    1,857    1.7
Local currency              3    1,420    1.6       2      583    0.6      5    3,500    4.3       4    3,510    1.1       1       700    0.2      -         -    -
Subtotal                6   10,085   11.3       3    1,307    1.4       6    4,606    5.6       8   10,922    3.4       2    6,632    1.8       1    1,857    1.7
Small loans
Foreign currency            4      649    0.7       2      431    0.4      2       814    1.0      1       253    0.1      -         -    -        2       780    0.7
Local currency             21    2,911    3.3    27    5,432    5.6    65   16,340   20.1   100   33,688   10.6    79   33,197    q.4              7    3,139    2.9
Subtotal               25    3,560    4.0    29    5,868    6.0    67   17,154   21.1   101   33,941   10.7    79   33,197    9.4              9    3,919    3.6
Total Approvals /a    51   89,094  100.0    49   97,120  100.0    90   81,897  100.0   139  321,013  100.0   127  360,657  100.0    19  109,246  100.0
Total Approvals /b    46   89,094              43   97,120             83   81,897            127  321,013            117  360,657             18  100,246
Cormi tment s
General Projects
Foreign currency           15   88,947   80.2    12   70,914   84.5    13   73,346   72.9    11   8R,166   64.2    39  344,280   85.5              6   65,1'8   88.8
Local currency             12   10,950    9.9    10    3,952    4.7        6   10,800   10.8       3   12,707    9.2    11   23,740    5.9         1    4,000    5.4
Subtotal               27   99,897   90.1    22   74,866   89.2    19   84,146   83.7    14  100,873   73.4    50  368,020   91.4               7   69,148   94.2
Agribusiness
Foreign currency            2    6,823    6.2      4    3,723    4.4       1    1,106    1.1       3    3,188    2.3       1       700    0.2      -         -    -
Local currency              1      670    0.6       3    1,250    1.5      3    1,190    1.2       5    4,530    3.3       1    1,549    0.4       -         -    -
Subtotal                 3    7,493    6.8      7    4,973    5.9       4    2,286    2.3       8    7,718    5.6       2    7,249    0.6       -        -    -
Small loans
Foreign currency            4      649    0.5       1      245    0.3      1       184    0.2      -         -    -        -         -    -        -        -    -
Local currency             19    2,931    2.6    20    3,850    4.6    56   13,896   13.8    67   28,765   21.0    83   32,480    8.0    12    4,230    5.8
Subtotal               23    3,580    3.1    21    4,095    4.9    57   14,080   14.0    67   28,765   21.0    83   32,480    8.0    12    4,230    5.8
Total Commitments      53  110,970  100.0    50   83,934  100.0    80  100,512  100.0    89  137,356  100.0   135  402,749  100.0    19   73,378  100.0
Disbursements
General Projects
Foreign currency           55  151,667   86.0    40   66,065  84.9        36   51,906   70.3    28   51,630   55.1    31  256,766   80.7    23   55,351   84.3
Local currency             29   15,255    8.6    17    3,892   5.0        10    8,656   11.7       9   11,870   12.7    11   22,007    6.9         2       194    0.3
Subtotal               84  166,922   94.6    57   69,957  89.9         46   60,562   P2,0    37   63,500   67.8    42  278,773   87.6    25   55,545   84.5
Agribusiness
Foreign currency            4    5,809    3.3       3    3,613   4.6       2       678    0.9      4    2,597    2.8       3    3,000    0.9       1     489      0.7
Local currency              3    1,306    0.7       1    1,179   1.5        4    1,227    1.6      4    3,255    3.5       5    3,362    1.1       1      250     0.4
Subtotal                  7    7,115    4.0      4    4,792   6.1        6    1,905    2.5       8    5,852    6.3       8    6,362    2.0       2     739      1.1
Small loans
Foreign currency            -         -    -        5      408   0.5        1      242    0.3      1       239    0.2      -         -    -        -       -      -
Local currency              2    2,381    1.4    21    2,655   3.5         57   11,168   15.2    97   24,082   25.7   109   33,052   10.4    29   9,377    14.3
Subtotal                  2    2,381    1.4    21    3,063   3.5        57   11,410   15.5    98   24,321   25.9   109   33,052   10.4    29   9,377    14.3
Total Disbursements   93  176,418  100.0    87   77,812 100.0    110   73,877  100.0   143   93,673  100.0   159  318,187  100.0    56  65,661   100.0
/a  Loans that have both dollar-denominated and peso-denomtnated loans are counted as separate loans.
/b Based on number of projects (dollar and peso loans combined).
AEPID
11/4/80



- 84-                                                                                 ANNEX 4
Table 4
P,ILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private nevelopment Corporation of the Philippines
Characteristics of Loans Approved, January 1, 1975 to March 31, 1980
(P '000)
1975                   1976                   1977                     1978                   1979            Ist Quarter 1980
. toral Distribution                                     No.  Amount Y          No.  Amount X           No.  Amount      Y    No.  Amount        Y    No.  Amount       Y
Manuf ac turing
Food                              4     1.8    2.0       1      0.4    0.4      5      2.6    3.2       8    11.1    3.4       6    13.2    3.6       1    15.4   14.1
Wood 6 wood products              3     5.4    6.1       4    36.4   37.5       2    13.3   16.2        9    29.8    9.3    10        3.4    1.0      1      0.5    0.4
Chemicals/chemical products    3    11.2   12.6          -      -      -        5    12.2   14.9        4    47.4   14.8       9    60.2   16.7           -          -
Nonnetallic products              1     0.3    0.4       2      8.5    8.8      1    10.6   13.0        1    16.0    5.0       9    97.2   26.9       4    45.5   41.7
Metal products                    2      1.2    1.3      5      6.4    6.6      6      2.6    3.2    16       6.5    2.0    19    13.2    3.6         2      0.5    0.5
Other manufacturing              18    15.9   17.8    18        5.9    6.0    29    26.4   32.2    43    38.6   12.0    31    51.2   14.3             3      8.9    8.2
Subtotal                   31    35.8   40.2    30    57.6   59.3    48    67.7   82.7    81   149.4   46.5    84   238.4   66.1    11    70.8   64.9
Electricity                         2      6.0    6.7      -      -       -        1     0.7    0.9       -      -      -        1      5.6    1.6      -      -       -
Transportation                      3    20.9   23.5       1      9.6   l0.0       3     2.9    3.5       7    22.7    7.1       7    16.2    4.5        1     2.7    2.5
Co..nunication                      2    15.7   17.6       -      -       -       -      -       -        -      -      -        1    16.2    4.5        1    26.0   23.8
Construction                        -      -      -        -      -       -       -      -       -        6   111.9   34.9       5    49.0   13.6       -      -       -
Mining                              1      0.7    0.8      2    24.7   25.4       -      -       -        3      8.3    2.6      1    22.2    6.1        1     6.6    6.0
Agriculture                         7    10.0   11.2       9      5.1    5.2    25       8.6   10.5    27    27.4    8.5    12    10.4    2.9            4     3.1    2.8
Others                              -      -      -        1      0.1    0.1       6     2.0    2.4       3      1.3    0.4      6      2.6    0.7      -      -       -
Total                      46    89.1  100.0    43    97.1  100.0    83    81.9  100.0   127   321.0  100.0   117   360.6  100.0    18   109.2  100.0
Geographical Spread
Metropolitan Manila              19    27.9   31.3    21    21.1   21.7    24    32.8   40.1    24    47.4   14.8    28    76.5   21.2                5    46.9   42.9
Luoon (Excluding
Metro Manila)                  14    23.4   26.3       6    25.1   25.9    13    22.5   27.5    27   144.3   44.9    28   196.1   54.4              5    30.4   27.8
Visayas                           3    20.7   23.2       7    11.2   11.5    25        9.8   10.7    43    43.3   13.5    35    20.0    5.5           6      4.1    3.8
Mindanao                         10    17.1   19.2       9    39.7   40.9       -    17.8   21.7    33    86.0   26.8    21    34.9    9.7            -      -       -
Nationwide                        -     -       -        -      -      -       21      -       -       -      -       -        5    33.1    9.2       2    27.8   25.5
Total                      46    89.1  100.0    43    97.1  100.0    83    81.9  100.0   127   321.0  100.0   117   360.6  100.0    18   109.2  100.0
New or Expansion Projects
New                              13    17.9   20.1    13    17.4   17.9    21    31.8   38.8    18    26.2    8.2    14    80.4   22.3                2      1.0    0.9
Expansion                        33    71.2   79.9    30    79.7   82.1    62    50.1   61.2   509   294.8   91.8   103   280.2   77.7    16   108.2   99.1
Total                      46    89.1  100.0    43    97.1  100.0    83    81.9  100.0   127   321.0  100.0   117   360.6  100.0    18   109.2  100.0
Type of Loans
General Projects
Foreign currency             mix    67.3   75.6   mix    87.3   89.9   mix    51.8   63.1   mix   243.1   75.6   mix   298.5   82.7   mix    96.6   88.4
Local currency               mix      8.1    9.1   mix        2.6    2.7   mix       8.4   10.2   mix    33.1   10.3   mix    22.3    6.1   mix            6.9    6.3
Subtotal                   15    75.4   84.7    13    89.1   92.6    12    60.2   73.3    20   276.2   85.9    36   320.8   88.8                 8   103.5   94.7
Agribusiness
Foreign currency             mix      8.7    9.7   mix       0.7    0.8   mix        1.1    1.3   mix       7.4    2.3       1     5.9    1.6       1      1.8    1.7
Local currency               mix      1.4    1.6   mix       0.6    0.6   mix        3.5    4.3   mix       3.5    1.1       1     0.7    0.2       -      -      -
Subtotal                    6    10.1   11.3       3      1.3    1.4       6     4.6    5.6       7    10.9    3.4        2     6.6    1.8       1     1.8    1.7
Small Loans
Foreign currency             mix      0.7    0.7   mix       0.5    0.4   mix        0.8    1.0   mix       0.2    0.1       -     -       -        -      0.8    0.7
Local currency               mix      2.9    3.3   mix        5.4    5.6   mix    16.3   20.1   mix    33.7   10.6    79    33.2    9.4             9      3.1    2.9
Subtotal                   25      3.6    4.0    27       5.9    6.0    65    17.1   21.1   100    33.9   10.7    79    33.2    9.4              9     3.9    3.6
Total                      46    89.1  100.0    43    97.1  100.0    83    91.9  100.0   127   321.0  100.0   117   360.6  100.0    18   109.2  100.0
Sioe of loans (P '000)
Below 250                        14     1.6    1.9    16        2.2    2.3    34       4.6    5.6    32       4.6    1.4    18       2.3    0.7       2      0.1    0.1
250-999                          12     5.7    6.4    16        6.7    6.9    36    15.5   18.9    69    29.6    9.2    63    30.5    8.4             6      2.8    2.6
1,000-3,999                      11    18.7   21.0       5    11.8   12.1       8    16.2   19.8        9    22.0    6.9    13    26.3    7.3         4      8.9    8.1
4,000 & over                      9    63.1   70.8       6    76.4   76.7       5    45.6   55.7    17   264.8   82.5    23   301.5   83.6            6    97.4   89.2
Total                      46    89.1  100.0    43    97.1  100.0    83    91.9  100.0   127   321.0  100.0   117   360.6  100.0    18   109.2  100.0
Average Size of Loan                 1.937                  2.258                   0.975                2.528                     3.084                  6.067
AEPID
11/4/80



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
INIUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
?rfvate Deve_pment Corporation of the Philippines
Summarized Balance  h.-ets,/a December 31, 1975-79 and March 31, 1980
Mar. 31, 1980
1975        1976          1977        1978          1979     (Unaudited)
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                    5,566       15,269       19,144       12,699      28,335        26,777
Investment in bonds, notes and
stocks /b                           79,574       50,730       37,652      102,817      149,719      199,185
Current portion of loans receivable
Peso loans                          46,387       33,717       40,042       50,932       67,533       64,526
Foreign currency loans              71,238      103,313      116,625      130,197      120,385      116,611
Subtotal                      117,625      137,030      156,667      181,129    .187,918       181,137
Less: Allowance for doubtful
accounts                      7,200        7,987        6,320        7,540        7,540       10,596
Net loans receivable               110,425      129,043      150,347      175,589      180,378      170,541
Accrued income receivable              39,071       48,997       46,722       59,789       58,631      47,540
Prepaid expenses and other
current assets                       5,552        7,648       13,048       22,490       18,007        8,101
Total Current Assets          240,188      251,687      266,913      371,384      435,070      452,144
Long-Term Loans Receivable
Peso loans                          53,723       39,906       59,764       77,113      126,352       66,4~6
Foreign currency loans             530,713      524,811      527,949      501,217      609,826      683,228
Subtotal                    584,436      564,717        587,713    578,330      736,178      749,714
Less: Allowance for doubtful
accounts                      7,600        8,313       10,078       12,358       13,710       11,029
Net long-term loan receivable    576,836        556,404      577,635      565,972      722,468      738,68
Equity Investment and Debt
Securities                            31,193       38,831       40,635       35,399       32,929       32,495
Less: Allowance for decline
in market value of
investments                   1,250        1,250        1,250        1,250        1,250        1,250
Net of investments                  19,943       37,581       39,385       34,149       31,579       31,235
Other Assets
Property and equipment (net of
accumulated depreciation)         10,154        9,730        9,318        9,206        9,425        9,467
Property under lease (net)                -       6,240             -            -       4,211        4,210
Other assets /c                      7,620        5,694       16,521       25,542       26,092       38,482
Total Assets                  864,741      867,336      909,772   1,006,253   1,228,845   1,274,223
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS- EQUITY
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued
expenses                         2,611        3,362        5,768        8,123        5,864        8,867
Current portion of loans
payable                         77,639       87,705       93,390      111,504       84,612       84,062
Short-term money market
instruments                     65,252       52,757       64,300      124,782      179,985      212,093
Other current liabilities         16,983       20,043       19,089       21,959       31,731       24,702
Total Current Liabilities   162,485        163,867      182,547      266,369      302,092      329,714
Long-Term Loans Payable
IBRD and ADB                     444,020      453,140      465,548      444,028      545,460      549,156
IFC                               98,732       82,800       67,370       52,438       40,041       35,592
AID loan                          27,500       27,500       27,500       26,583       23,834       22,917
Others                            17,318       13,826       31,351       68,807      151,968      167,958
Total Long-Term Loans
PayabIe                587,570      577,266      591,769      591,856      761,303      775,623
Subscription payable - net of
current portion                    2,475        2,475        1,014        1,014        3,571        3,117
Total Liabilities             752,530      743,608      775,330      859,238   1,066,066   1,108,454
Stockholders' Eguity
Pa,d-in capital                    50,258       60,365       60,367       60,367       60,367       60,367
Capital paid in excess of par
value                             11,289       13,069       13,069       13,069       13,069       13,069
Retained earnings
Appropriated to reserves          29,821       34,847       40,219       44,666       51,598       52,859
Unappropriated                    20,843       15,447       20,787       28,913       36,845       39,474
Total Stockholders' Equity  112,211        123,728      134,442      147,015      161,879      165,769
Total Liabilities and
Stockholders' Equity          864,741      867,336      909,772   1,006,253   1,228,845   1,274,223
/a  Based on audited financial reports of December 31, 1975-79 and book balances as at March 31, 1980,
with certain account reclassification for consistency in presentation.
lb  Includes IFC certificates of deposit as follows (in P'000):  1975:  6,320; 1976:  5,152; 1977:  3,248;
1978:  1,703; 1979:  nil; 1980:  nil.
(c  Net of allowance for doubtful accounts of P1,402 in 1976 and 1977, and P102 in 1978; none for
1979 and 1980.
AEPID
11/11/80



- 86 ^
ANNEX 4
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Summarized Statements of Income and Unappropriated Retained Earnings,
1975-1 79 and March 31, 1980 /a For the Year Ended December 31, 1975 to 1979
and Three Months Ended March 31, 1980
(P-000)
1980
1975       1976       1977       1978       1979    (3 months)
Income
Interest income
Government bonds, temporary investments
and deposits                                      9,177       6,925      4,694      5,757    14,095        4,955
Long-term loans                                     81,275    91,481    92,656   104,927   112,684          33,964
Income from capital market operations                      -          -      5,033      7,672      9,081          241
Commissions, underwriting, guarantees,
commitments, etc.                                      520        442      2,674      5,321      5,481       1,782
Other income                                             537      1,320      2,528      1,095        385          208
Total Income                                       91,509   100,168   107,585   124,772                    41,150
Expenses
Financial Expenses
Interest and bank charges                          51,732    54,776    57,470    68,011    82,823           25,389
Provision for doubtful accounts                      1,470      1,500      1,500      2,200      2,200          375
Commitment expenses                                  2,109      2,085      1,742      3,360      3,297          465
Total Financial Expenses                           55,311    58,361    60,712    72,571    88,320          26,229
General and Administrative Expenses
Salaries and other personnel expenses                4,873      5,597      7,337      8,793    10,848        4,312
Depreciation                                           817        813        827        998      1,027          218
Other expenses                                       6,142      7,428      9,949    11,685    14,215         3,029
Total General and Administrative
Expenses                                        11,832    13,838    18,113    21,476             26,090   7,559
Total Expenses                                     67,143    72,199    78,825            7 114410          33,788
Net income before taxes                                 24,366    27,969    28,760    29,725    27,316            7,362
Provision for income taxes                               7,911      9,018      8,388      7,491      2,792        1,057
Net Income                                         16,455    18,951    20,372    22,234    24,524           6,305
Unappropriated Retained Earnings
At beginning of year                                  16,919    20,843    15,447    20,787    28,913          36,845
EarnIngs appropriated for repayment of
loans                                              (5,501)   (5,027)   (5,372)   (4,447)   (6,932)    (1,261)
Cash dividends                                        (7,030)   (9,258)   (9,660)   (9,660)   (9,660)    (2,415)
Stock dividends                                           (-)  (10,062)         (-)        (-)        (-)          (-)
Unappropriate Retained Earnings at
End of Year                                     20,843                20,787    28,914    36,845         39,474
/a  Based on audited financial reports for the years ended December 31, 1975-79 and book balances for the
quarter ended March 31, 1980, with certain account reclassifications for consistency in presentation.
AEPID
November 11, 1980



-87 -                              ANNEX 4
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Financial Ratios, 1975-79
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Percentage of Average Total Assets
Gross income                               11.4   11.7   12.1   13.0   12.7
Financial expenses                          6.7    6.6    6.7    7.4    7.7
Gross spread                                4.7    5.1    5.4    5.6    5.0
Administrative expenses                     1.5    1.7    2.0    2.2    2.5
Provisions                                  0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1
Income tax                                  1.0    1.0    0.9    0.8    0.2
Net income                                  2.0    2.2    2.3    2.4    2.2
Net Profit as % of
Average equity                             16.7   16.1   15.8   15.8   15.9
Share capital                              31.4   28.1   27.7   30.3   33.4
Other Ratios
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio                   12.7   13.1   12.8   14.0   13.4
Cost of debt as % of average
total long-term borrowings                7.6    8.0    8.2    9.2    9.2
Interest spread                             5.1    5.1    4.6    4.8    4.2
Return on average total assets              9.7    9.8    9.9   10.6   10.1
Cash dividends as % of par                 15.5   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0
Dividend pay-out ratio                     42.7   48.9   47.4   43.4   39.4
Book value as % of par                    223.0  204.9  222.7  243.5  268.1
RATIOS OF FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Total debt/equity                             6.7    6.0    5.8    6.1    6.9
Long-term debt/equity                         6.2    5.6    5.3    5.0    5.7
Reserve & provisions as % of portfolio        2.2    2.4    2.2    2.7    2.4
Short-term debt/equity /a                     0.8    0.6    0.7    1.1    1.3
Net liquidity ratio /b                         7.0    9.5    8.9    9.0   10.8
Current ratio                                1.48   1.53   1.43   1.34   1.44
Current liquidity /c                         1.47   1.49   1.15   1.18   1.20
Debt service cover7 d                        1.27   1.21   1.17   1.15   1.13
Debt service cover /e                        1.24   1.21   1.18   1.12   1.12
Interest cover /f                            1.36   1.39   1.40   1.41   1.39
Interest cover X                             1.30   1.28   1.43   1.31   1.36
/a  Short-term defined as current liabilities net of current portion of term
debt.  This ratio is subject to a maximum of 2:1 under IBRD Loan 1052.
/b  Net liquid assets - current assets minus current liabilities and
undisbursed portion of IFC loan. This ratio (net liquid assets to total
assets) is subject to a minimum of 4%.
/c  Same as above with current assets net of (a) IFC certificates of
deposits; (b) principal and interest receivable overdue for more than
180 days; and (c) items under litigation. This ratio is subject to a
minimum of 1:15 under IBRD Loan 1514.
/d  Standard definition:  net income after tax + noncash items + interest
expenses + loan collections to repayments of borrowings + interest
expenses.
/e  Same as above but excluding interest income overdue for more than 180
days from net income and adding back collection of interest overdue for
more than 180 days at the end of the previous period.
If  Net income after tax + Interest expenses to interest expenses.
/g  Same as above but with net income netted as in /e above.
AEPID
01/28/81



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Comparative Statements of Arrears Peosition,
December 31, 1975 to 1979, March 31 and July 31, 1980
(POD00)
1975             1976              1977              1978              1979         March 31, 1980   July 31, 1980
No. of            No. of           No. of             No. of           No. of            No. of             No. of
compa-            compa-           compa-             compa-           compa-            compa-             compa-
nies   Amount   nies   Amount   nies   Amount   nies   Amount   nies   Amount   nies   Amount   nies   Amount
Portfolio Status (Principal
Outstanding)
Regular Loans
In grace period                   75   301,727      64   189,682    26    97,438        24   148,192      41   340,226      37   345,840    48   428,876
In repayment                      64   390,785      81   494,945   106   607,233    106   568,557         92   495,713      90   494 196.   83   479,632
Under litigation                   1      1,832      2      7,044      4    22,694       2      4,066      3    21,076       3    17,079       4    22,144
Total                           140   694,344   147   691,671   136   727,365    132   720,815   136   857,015   130   857,115   135   930,652
Of which affected by
arrears over 3 months la        36   151,977      26   102,060      36   131,312      29   135,756      31   114,309      32    98,725      24    90,516
Small Loans
In grace period                   11      1,635     11      2,058     19      4,122     36    11,122      71    25,623      73    28,024      63    25,802
In repayment                      25      3,706     38      5,412     70    12,784   115    27,522   135    40,119   136    36,904   160    51,747
Under litigation                   -          -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -      1,339      9      8,808     10      1,462
Total                            36      5,341    49       7,470    89    16,906    151    38,644   206    67,081   218    73,736   233    79,011
Of which affected by
arrears over 3 months /a         7        919    16       1,885     33      2,170     43      6,330    60    12,136       57    10,755      82    16,696
Total Loan Portfolio
In grace period                   86   303,362      75   191,740    45   101,560    60   159,314   112   365,849    110   373,864   111   454,678
In repayment                      89   394,491    119   500,357    176   620,017   221   596,079   222   535,832   226   531,100   243   531,379
Under litigation                    1     1,832       2     7,044      4    22,694       2      4,066       8    22,415     12    25,887      14    23,606
Total                           176   699,685   196   699,141   225   744,271   283   759,459   342   924,096   348   930,851   368 1,009,o63
Restructured Loans Included
in Total Loan Portfolio
In grace period                                                                                                              3      1,342      7      9,045
In repayment                                                                                                                27    58,407      28    58,077
Under litigation
Total                                                                                                                      30    59,749    35    67,122
Of which affected by
arrears over 3 months /a        43   152,896    42   103,945        69   133,482      72   142,086    91   126,445    89   109,480   106   107,212
Arrears Over 3 Months
Regular Loans
Principal                                14,101            17,508            24,484            31,374            36,876            39,033            34,728
Interest                                 15,958            15,671            14,618            20,913            21,646            20,922            18,887
Subtotal                                30,059            33,179            39,102            52,287            58,522            59,955            53,615
Small Loans
Principal                                   198               611               728             1,508             2,229,            2,384             2,887
Interest                                    101               314               320               616               862               966             1,176
Subtotal                                   299               925             1,048             2,124             3,091             3,350             4,063
Total                                   30,358            34,104            40,150            54,411            61,613            63,305           -57,678
1975              1976             1977              1978               1979        March 31, 1980   July 31, 1980
Selected Ratios                     Regular  Small  Regular  Small  Regular  Small  Regular  Small  Regular  Small  Regular  Small  Regular  Small
Principal affected by arrears
to principal outstanding         21.9    17.2    14.7    25.2    19.4    12.8    18.8    16.4    13.3    18.1    11.5    14.6                 9.7      21.1
Principal arrears to princi-
pal outstanding                   2.0      3.7      2.7      8.2      3.4      4.3      4.4      3.9      4.3      3.3      4.6      3.2      3.7       3.6
Total arrears over 3 months
to principal outstanding          4.3      5.6      4.8    12.4       5.4      6.2      7.3      5.5      6.8      4.6      7.0      4.5      5.8       5.6
/a  Including amounts un6et litigation.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, 1980-84
(With comparative figures for 1979)
(P -000)
1979
(Actual)      1980         1981         1982         1983        1984
Approvals
Loans /a                            360,657      506,873      608,346      693,420     786,994      889,784
Equity investments                    42,900      13,200        5,000        5,000        5,000       5,000
Guarantees                            68,701           -       11,500       13,225       15,210      17,502
Underwriting/placements              107,015      55,000       75,000      100,000      125,000     150,000
Syndications                         158,000     450,000      400,000      550,000     750,000   1,000,000
External funds management              2,625      15,000       29,000       50,200       69,400     120,700
Total                      739,898   1,040,073   1,128,846   1,411,845   1,751,604   2,182,986
Commitments
Loans /a                            402,749      447,419      588,155      673,236      761,791     670,537
Equity investments                    13,393      17,403        5,000        5,000        5,000       5,000
Guarantees                            14,200           -       10,750       12,362       14,218      16,356
Underwriting/placements              107,015      55,000       75,000      100,000      125,000     150,000
Syndications                        158,000      450,000      400,000      550,000     750,000   1,000,000
External funds management                  -      15,000       29,000       50,200       69,400     120,700
Total                      695,357      984,822   1,107,905   1,390,798   1,725,409   1,962,593
Disbursements
Loans /a                             318,187     428,244      440,189      615,068     676,671      709,565
Equity investments                    12,931      17,403        5,000        5,000        5,000       5,000
Underwriting/private placements            -            -           -            -            -            -
Syndications                        158,000            -            -            -            -            -
Total                      507,522      445,647     445,189      620,068      681,671      714,565
Issuance of guarantees                18,404                   10,750       12,362       14,218      16,356
*   (
/a  Includes foreign currency loans converted at P 7,415 to US$1.00.
AEPID
01/28/81



-90-                                                     ANNEX 4 
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Projected Balance Sheets, December 31, 1980 to 1984
(PF000)
1980         1981         1982          1983         1984
Assets
Current assets
Cash                                                         29,650       26,906        18,906       22,406       23,406
Short-term investments                                      195,819      347,122      444,079       535,594      637,594
Loans receivable due within one year                        188,716      192,949       232,450      318,182      418,338
Less:  Allowance for doubtful accounts                      (11,823)     (10,000)      (10,000)     (12,000)     (13,000)
Accrued interest and other income receivables                74,406       86,290        90,334       97,927      110,192
Other current assets                                         20,413       11,125        14,530       20,730       27,730
Total Current Assets                                       497,181      654,392      790,299       982,839   1,204,260
Lang-term loan receivables
Loans receivable noncurrent                               1,063,792   1,314,031   1,734,914   2,151,485   2,517,546
Less:  Allowance for doubtful accounts                      (12,305)     (15,650)      (19,650)     (21,650)     (26,650)
Equity investments                                             49,513        40,230       43,830       46,330        51,330
Less:  Allowance for market decline                          (1,250)       (2,000)      (2,000)      (2,000)       (2,000)
Property and equipment - net                                   10,366        12,000       13,500       15,500        17,500
Other assets                                                   31,844        42,000       62,000       65,000        68,000
Total Assets                                             1,639,141   2,045,003   2,622,893   3,237,504   3,829,986
Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
- Current liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                        30,138       22,824        26,900       31,670       38,216
Current portion of loans payable                             85,876      131,898      150,441       195,787      201,502
Short-term money market instruments                         212,511      382,644      471,988       572,818      665,872
Other current liabilities                                     9,404        7,500        8,100         8,500        8,900
Total Current Liabilities                                  337,929      544,866      657,429       808,775      914,490
Long-term loans payable - net
of current portion                                       1,117,738   1,281,694   1,693,022   2,103,762   2,532,878
Subscription payable - net of current portion                   1,570             -            -            -             -
Total Liabilities                                       1,457,237   1,826,560   2,350,451   2,912,537   3,447,368
Stockholders- equity
Paid-in capital                                              73,429       98,436      128,936       153,436      178,336
Retained earnings                                           108,475      120,007      143,506       171,531      204,282
Total Stockholders' Equity                                181,904       218,443      272,442      324,967       382,618
Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity              1,639,141   2,045,003   2,622,893   3,237,504   3,829,986
AEPID
November 11, 1980



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Table 11
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Projected Income Statements, December 31, 1980 to 1984
(P'000)
1980      1981     1982      1983      1984
Income
Income from project loans             140,336  149,528  207,686  271,966  331,762
Income from short-term invest-
ments and bank deposits              19,196   20,860   26,042   30,239   34,965
Income from capital market opera-
tions                                14,086    6,487    6,886    6,983    4,633
Fees and commissions                     6,928    9,135   11,980   14,800   19,300
Other income                            (9,836)   5,387    6,785    7,924    9,265
Total Income                       170,710  191,397  259,379  331,912  399,925
Expenses
Financial expenses
Interest and other financing
charges                           104,623  104,669  147,380  190,376  232,223
Provision for doubtful accounts    2,100    3,000    4,000    5,000    6,000
Total                              106,723  107,669  151,380  195,376  238,223
General and administrative
expenses                             34,068   37,822   45,699   56,453   70,013
Total Expenses                     140,791  145,491  197,079  251,829  308,236
Income before tax                         29,919   45,906   62,300   80,083   91,689
Provision for income tax                     169   12,395   15,303   24,033   26,186
Net Income                          29,750   33,511   46,997   56,050   65,503
AEPID
October 31, 1980



-92-                                      ANNEX 4
Table 12
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Projected Cash Flow, 1980-84
(US$ million)
1980       1981      1982         1983         1984
SOURCES
Operations
Net income before tax                    29,919    45,906    62,300         80,083       91,689
Depreciation                              1,107      1,226      1,425        1,675         1,832
Provision for doubtful accounts           2,100      3,000      4,000        5,000        6,000
Subtotal                         33,126    50,132    67,725         86,758        99,521
Drawdowns in
(i)  Foreign currency borrowings        314,544   289,590   438,915        492,675      506,648
(ii)  Domestic currency borrowings    120,888    85,795   112,854           113,852      123,970
Collections
(i)  Local currency                           -    44,142    47,686         54,078       85,442
(ii)  Foreign currency                    98,811   101,320   111,972        125,874      163,649
Increase in payables                       36,153   163,315    94,020        106,000      100,000
Increase in paid-in capital                      -    25,007    30,500        24,500       24,900
Total                           603,522   759,301       903,672   1,003,737   1,104,130
USES
Additions to fixed assets                   1,560      1,634      1,500        2,000         2,000
Disbursements
(i)  Foreign currency borrowings        113,700   153,881   181,127        189,580      208,660
(ii)  Domestic currency borrowings    314,544   289,590   438,915           492,675      506,648
Repayments
(i)  Foreign currency borrowings         15,922    27,262    18,077         32,991       40,167
(ii)  Domestic currency borrowings        82,769   110,297   113,821        117,450      155,620
Net increase (decrease) in
equity investments                        7,853    (5,313)    3,600          2,500        5,000
Payment of income tax                       1,211    13,471    13,076         19,950       23,347
Cash dividend payments                      9,660    16,172    21,813         26,893       38,576
Increase in receivables & other
term assets                               8,888      3,748    22,786        24,683       21,112
Increase in short-term investments         46,100   151,303    96,957         91,515      102,000
Total                           602,207   762,045   911,672   1,000,237   1,103,130
Increase (decrease) in cash                 1,315    (2,744)   (8,000)         3,500        1,000
AEPID
11/11/80



93                                ANNEX 4
Table 13
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
Projected Financial Ratios, 1980-84
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
As % of Average Total Assets
Gross income                                    11.9   10.4   11.1   11.3   11.3
Financial expenses                               7.3    5.9    6.5    6.7    6.8
Gross spread                                     4.6    4.5    4.6    4.6    4.5
Administrative expenses                          2.4    2.0    2.0    1.9    2.0
Income tax                                      0.01    0.7    0.5    0.8    0.7
Net income                                      2.19    1.8    2.0    1.9    1.8
Net Profit as % of
Average equity                                  17.3   16.7   19.1   18.8   18.5
Share capital at year-end                      40.5   34.0   36.4   36.5   36.7
Other Ratios
Income from loans as % of
average loan portfolio                        12.9   10.8   12.0   12.3   12.3
Cost of term debt as % of
average long-term borrowings                  8.2    6.6    7.5    7.6 '  7.7
Interest spread                                  4.7    4.2    4.5    4.7    4.6
Return on average total assets                   9.4    8.2    9.0    9.2    9.2
Cash dividends as % of paid-in-capital/a   13.2   16.4   16.9   17.5   21.6
Dividend pay-out ratio                          32.4   48.3   46.4   48.0   58.9
Book value as % of par                        301.3  299.8  373.9  392.1  461.7
Ratios of Financial Structure
Total debt/equity                                8.5    8.6    8.8    9.1    9.1
Long-term debt/equity                            7.3    6.9    7.1    7.4    7.4
Long-term debt/equity /b                         6.9    6.8    7.0    7.3    7.4
Reserve & provisions as % of portfolio           1.9    1.8    1.6    1.4    1.4
Short-term debt/equity /b                        1.4    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9
Net liquidity ratio /c                           9.7    5.4    5.1    5.4    7.6
Current ratio                                   1.47   1.20   1.20   1.22   1.32
Current liability                               1.40   1.32   1.32   1.33   1.43
Debt service cover                              1.19   1.21   1.34   1.32   1.35
Debt service cover /d                           1.18   1.21   1.32   1.30   1.32
Interest cover                                  1.37   1.41   1.41   1.38   1.36
Interest cover /d                               1.34   1.41   1.37   1.34   1.31
/a  Including share premium.
/b  As defined in the IBRD Loan Agreements Nos. 1052-PH and 1514-PH.
/c  As per IFC Loan Agreement.
/d  As per understanding with IBRD.
AEPLD
01/28/81



ANNEX 5
Page 1
- 94 -
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippine investments Systems Organization (PIS0)
A Review of Institutional, Operational and Financial Aspects
Background, Objectives and Functions
1.        PISO, a privately-owned investment house, was set up in 1974.  Its
charter, embodied in its Articles, authorizes it to undertake all the func-
tions of a development bank/investment house including project promotion,
development financing and all other usual functions of an investment house
including underwriting and merchandising of securities, syndications, etc.
Like most other investment houses in the country, PISO has not actively
pursued a typical investment banking role. During the initial years of its
establishment, it concentrated on short-term money market operations and some
loan syndications.  Starting in 1978 it diverted a substantial portion of its
business to term lending. This change was facilitated by a $15 million loan
from the Bank /1. Consequently, PISO is now one of the three institutions in
the country specializing in medium/long-term financing of industry. PISO, as
a matter of policy, assists all types and sizes of viable industrial projects
in their establishment, expansion or rationalization.
PISO's Role in the Economy
2.        Being a relatively young institution, PISO-s actual quantitative
contribution to the country s economic development is relatively small. Since
most of the projects assisted by PISO are not yet in operation, the best
indication of PISO's economic impact would be the contributions these projects
are expected to make when completed. The 93 projects assisted by PISO up to
March 31, 1980 involve a total investment of P 1.9 billion with an average
investment of P 20 million per project of which P 9.4 million (47%) is
provided by PISO. These projects are estimated to create over 27,000 new jobs
with an average capital investment of about P 70,000 ($9,335) per job.
These projects are also likely to have a beneficial impact on the balance of
payments position of the country and are estimated to earn/save foreign
exchange to the tune of P 485 million through net exports and/or import
substitution.
/_ Loan No. 1555-PH.



ANNEX 5
95                               Page 2
3.        Resource Allocation.  PIS0-s financing is provided after a detailed
scrutiny of the viability of projects and is instrumental in promoting sound
industrial development. The estimated financial and economic rates of return
based on a representative sample of projects assisted by PISO are very
satisfactory as shown below:
FRR        ERR
(No. of projects)
Less than 15%          1           -
15 to 24%              9           4
25% to 50%            16           9
50% and over           3          13
Total              29         26
Projects assisted by PIS0 are well distributed by subsectors of industry.
Balanced regional dispersal of industrial investment is also a major develop-
ment objective pursued by PIS0 but so far it has achieved only limited success
in this endeavor and over 50% of its assistance has gone to projects located
in the Metro Manila area. This in part reflects the general pattern of
industrial investment in the country which is heavily biased in favor of Metro
Manila, and a lack of a branch network. To improve the geographical distribu-
tion of its assistance, PIS0 is entering into technical and financial tie-ups
with selected private development banks located outside of Metro Manila area.
4.        Assistance to Small Business.  The bulk of PISO's financial
assistance goes to medium- and large-scale enterprises. However, cognizant of
the economic benefits of promoting small-scale industries, PIS0 has started a
small business assistance program. PISO has so far made 34 SMI loans for
P 27.5 million. This is over 52% of the total number of loans made, but
only 11.2% of the amount. Besides providing financial assistance, PISO
actively assists and advises small entrepreneurs in the course of formulation,
implemention and operation of their projects. PISO has also set-up an
affiliate company /1 (PISO Leasing Corporation), to provide leasing assistance
mainly to SMI. Through its proposed tie-ups with private development banks,
PIS0 would further expand its financial and technical assistance to small
enterprises.
/1 PISO Leasing Corporation was set-up in 1979 in collaboration with the
International Finance Corporation which has invested $152,000 in equity
and provided a loan of $5.0 million.



AiNEX 5
- 96 -                               Page 3
5.        Resource Mobilization.  As of March 31, 1980 total resources mobi-
lized by PISO stood at P 387.4 million (Annex 5, T-1). The bulk of these
resources (over 65%) came from official sources such as the Bank and ADB ($15
million or P 112.5 million each), US Eximbank ($1.5 million or P 11.2
million), and IGLF (P 11 million). PISO0s own resource mobilization efforts
are represented by its net worth (P 45.0 million) and short-term money
market borrowings (P 83.9 million) aggregating a modest figure of P 128.9
million. Like most other financial institutions in the Philippines, PISO's
ability to mobilize resources has been severely constrained by the highly
restrictive and regulated monetary and interest rate policies of the Govern-
ment and the Central Bank. With the changes in financial sector policies
introduced in 1980, the environment would be more conducive to long-term
resource raising in the future. PISO has, however, been quite successful in
loan syndications and has so far managed 24 syndications for a total of P
647.5 million, representing more than twice its own total long-term resources.
Institutional Aspects
6.        Ownership, Management and Staff.  PISO's existing paid-in capital of
P 33.8 million /1, is subscribed 30% by its only foreign stockholder,
Private Investment Company for Asia, S.A. (PICA), an internationally owned
private institution and 70% by 16 local stockholders. The Land Bank of the
Philippines (LBP) is among the largest local stockholders with 14.5% holding
while six other diverse groups together own about 53% of the capital. PISO is
commited to further broaden the base of its stockholding and has reached an
understanding with ADFU that it will raise its paid-in capital by a further
P 10 million by the end of 1981 in a mnanner that the maximum ownership of
any single Filipino stockholder group, except LBP, would not exceed 12%. In
this context, efforts would be made to invite participation of trust/pension
funds.
7.        PISO is a professionally and competently managed institution.  Broad
policy guidelines are set by its Board of Directors, comprising 11 members
including 3 representing its foreign stockholder (PICA), 7 representing the
Filipino stockholders /2 and one nominee of PNB./3 The Board consists of
directors of diversified background and has proved to be an effective and a
cohesive body providing valuable guidance to PISO's management. The
management team is headed of PISOs Chairman-President who is an experienced
/1 PISO's paid-in capital was increased in 1978 by P 10 million, which
was a condition of the Bank loan. PISO net worth as of March 31, 1980
stood at P 45.0 million.
/2 One of them is a Deputy Minister of Finance.
/3  PNB is the conduit for the Bank and ADB loans as the Government could
not guarantee borrowings of a private institution like PISO.



ANNEX 5
_ 97 -                            Page 4
development banker and who has provided effective management leadership.
Between March 1978 and March 1980 PISO increased its total staff from 55 to
72, including an increase in professional staff from 38 to 44.  The staff
possess varied disciplines, including engineering, finance, economics, law
and banking. PTSO has agreed with ADFU to recruit additional staff as
needed by its expanding operations and hire a manpower resource development
specialist to assist it in meeting its staff needs and organize staff
training on a systematic basis.
8.        Policies, Procedures and Standards.  PISO's Board of Directors
adopted a Policy Statement in March 1979, the draft of which was earlier
discussed and agreed upon with the Bank (Annex 5, Attachment 1); no amendments
have since been made. PISO has so far generally complied with the provisions
of its Policy Statement. There were, however, two transactions where PISO's
Board decided, as exceptions, to exceed the single enterprise exposure limit
(25% of PISO0s net worth) in view of the back-to-back bank guarantees that
were available for the amount in excess of the limit. ADFU and PISO have
reached an understanding that in future such exceptions would not be made;
and this was confirmed at negotiations.
9.        PISO's appraisal procedures are well developed and the normal
processing time ranges between six to eight weeks. The quality of PISO's
appraisals has improved in the past two years both in respect of the depth of
coverage and quality of judgement. PISOs appraisal reports generally include
an objective assessment of the relevant aspects of the project's viability.
The economic viability of the project is usually tested in terms of its
expected contributions to the economy in the form of value added, exports, net
foreign exchange savings and earnings, employment generation and regional
development. Economic and financial rates of return are calculated for all
loans above $750,000. PISO's engineering evaluation of projects gives due
consideration to the suitability of the technology proposed, economic scale of
operations and the project's environmental impact.
10.       PISOTs organization, policies and procedures for project supervision
are not yet fully developed. ADFU has observed that although the department
responsible for supervision does undertake project visits and obtains periodic
progress and financial reports, this is not done in an organized and regular
basis. ADFU has, therefore, suggested and PISO has agreed to: (i) strengthen
the supervision organization and prepare and adopt a comprehensive project
supervision plan; (ii) appoint qualified staff in adequate number for project
supervision work; and (iii) prepare a Project Supervision Manual for the
guidance of its staff, spelling out the supervision policy and procedures.
Progress made in this regard reviewed at loan negotiations is satisfactory.



ANNEX 5
-98 -                              Page 5
Operations
11.       Trend of Operations.  PISO provides financial assistance in various
forms but medium- and long-term loans and loan syndications have so far
accounted for the bulk (90%) of PISO's long-term operations; direct equity
investments, guarantees, underwriting and private placements have accounted
for the remaining 10%. In addition, PISO is very active on the short-term
money market. As shown in Annex 5, T-2 and summarized below, after 1977 the
importance of loan syndications in relation to total operations has gradually
declined, which reflects availability of loanable funds from the Bank and ADB.
Although this temporarily diminished its role as a catalyst for funds, PISO
continues to assign a high priority to loan syndications in its total
operations.  In fact, beginning 1981, it projects a substantial growth in
syndications (para. 16).
PISO: SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS, 1976-80
Cumulative,
March 1, 1974         January 1, 1978           March 1, 1974-
to Dec. 31, 1977        March 31, 1980            March 31, 1980)
No.  %    Amount  %    No.   %   Amount   %   No.  %    Amount   %
Loans         7  28.0   20.2   5.1  58   67.4  224.3  37.2  65  58.6  244.5  24.6
Equity
investment  1   4.0      -    -      1    1.2    2.2   0.4   2   1.8    2.2   0.2
Guarantees   3  12.0    9.7   2.5   7    8.1   50.7   8.4  10   9.0   60.4   6.1
Underwriting
and private
placements  3  12.0    8.7   2.2   7    8.1   31.3   5.2  10   9.0   40.0   4.0
Syndicationsli  44.0  353.7  90.2  13   15.2  293.7  48.8  24  21.6  647.4  65.1
Total    25  100   392.3 100.0  86  100.0  602.2 100.0 111 100.0  994.5 100.0
12.       Features of Loan Operations.  Characteristics of PISO's industrial
loans are shown in Annex 5, T-3.  Since the start of its operations PISO has
approved 65 loans, for an aggregate of P 244.5 million, falling into two
distinct categories: (a) regular loans; and (b) small business loans. The
regular loans constitute the core of PISO-s lending operations and account for
47.7% of total number and 88.8% of total amount of loan approvals. These
loans were made to relatively large industries and were overwhelmingly in
foreign exchange. The small business loans, in contrast, were made to
small- and medium-scale industries almost entirely financed under IGLF. The



ANNEX 5
- 99 -                           Page 6
average loan size was P 7.0 million for regular loans and P 0.8 million
for small loans. About 56% of the loans made were for subprojects in the
manufacturing sector followed by telecommunications (19.9%), transport
(10.4%), mining (9.2%) and the service sectors (4.4%). PIS0 is not over
exposed in any one sector or subsector and its portfolio is well diversified.
PISO-s operations so far indicate a strong preference for well established
clients with about 90% of loans going to existing enterprises. This is not
quite in line with the objectives enunciated in PISO-s Policy Statement (para.
8). PIS0-s management attributes this bias to the necessity of developing a
sound portfolio prior to entering into riskier investments and has expressed
its intention of allocating a much larger proportion of its loans to new
projects/entrepreneurs in the future. ADFU would reach a firm standing on
this matter with PISO prior to accreditation.
Financial Aspects
13.       Financial Position.  A significant feature of PIS0-s financial
position is the rapid growth in its assets/resources (Annex 5, T-4). Between
December 31, 1977 and 1979 total assets jumped from P 125.5 million to
P 231.3 million for an annual growth rate of about 35%. Most of the
additional investment was in the long-term portfolio which rose from a meagre
P 5.3 million in 1977 to P 85.0 million in 1979. Consequently, the
long-term assets as a percentage of total assets increased from 5.2% in 1977
to 38.6% in 1979. This trend was sustained in the first quarter of 1980. The
growth in the portfolio was almost entirely financed through term borrowings
and as a consequence PISO0s long-term debts grew from P 4.2 million in 1977
to P 80.8 million in 1979 and P 87.4 million in March 1980. At the same
time, current liabilities and net worth grew modestly. In terms of its
agreement with the Bank, PISO is required not to exceed a total debt /1 to
equity ratio of 10:1 and long-term debt /1 to equity ratio of 4:1. In
calculating its contractual debt/equity ratios, PISO has been excluding from
its total debts that portion which it incurred against a counter commercial
bank/IGLF guarantee. However, ADFU has reached an understanding with PISO
that for calculation of its contractual debt/equity ratios, all debts as
defined in the Loan Agreement with Bank, would be taken into account.
However, PISO has been well within its contractual limits with a total
debt/equity ratio of 4.2:1 and long-term debt/equity ratio of 2.2:1. PISO has
maintained satisfactory levels of liquidity and debt service coverage in the
past three years and has complied with the understandings reached with the
Bank on the subject.
14.       Financial Performance.  Interest income on medium- and long-term
loans which contributed only 7.2% to PISO-s total gross income in 1977
accounted for 30.6% of the gross income in 1979 and rose even higher to
45.9% at the end of the first quarter of 1980.  This was directly attributable
/1 Including guarantees.



ANNEX 5
- 100-                                 Page 7
to growth in its long-term portfolio. Although PISO's interest costs and
administrative expenses have been rising, gross income has grown at an even
faster rate.  Consequently, the net income increased from P 3.5 million in
1977 to P 4.6 million in 1978 and P6.1 million in 1979 representing 13.3%,
13.6% and 14.7% of net worth respectively.  As percentage of total assets, net
income ranged between 2.9% and 2.8%. PISO's Board has so far followed a
conservative dividend policy and paid cash dividends at 8.0% each for 1978 and
1979, plowing back over 50% of the income.  The unaudited operating results of
the first quarter of 1980 indicate that the profitability trend of the past
three years would be maintained.  PISO's operating results for 1975-79 and
first quarter of 1980 are summarized in Annex 5, T-5.
15.        Quality of Portfolio.  Even allowing for the rather short history cf
its operations, PISO's portfolio is in a remarkably a good state. As of June
30, 1980, PISO's total outstanding loan portfolio stood at P 105.5 mili4on
to 47 client companies (Annex 5, T-6). So far PISO has not faced any serious
problems in loan collections. As of June 30, 1980 past dues amounted to only
P 0.3 million or 0.3% of the total loan portfolio; only 1.7% of the port-
folio was affected by these defaults. More than 50% of the arrears arose in
small business loans but were due for less than 90 days.  There was only one
default (P 14,600) on the regular loans for which collection arrangements
were being worked out.  Similarly, there were no defaults on PISO-s short-term
money market or guarantee operations. Even though PISO does not expect any
eventual portfolio losses, it has regularly made provisions for losses. As of
December 31, 1979, total provisions for losses stood at P 7.0 million or
3.9% of total short and long-term portfolio.
Prospects
16.        Projected Operations.  Based on actual operations in the first half
of 1980 and the pipeline of applications, PISO expects to approve new loans
amounting to P 196 million in 1980, almost a 100% increase over the 1979
level. Between 1981 and 1984 however, a modest growth of 14-19% is expected
in new approvals. Except for 1980 when peso loans were expected to increase
six fold due to the increased upper limit of loans under the IGLF scheme, the
rate of growth in foreign currency loans is faster than in peso loans.
Approvals of foreign exchange loans are projected at P 196.5 million in
1981, P 237.0 million in 1982, P 273.0 million in 1983 and P 315.0
million in 1984, while peso loans are projected at P 34.0 million, P 37.6
million, P 41.0 million and P 44.0 million respectively. PISO has
projected even faster growth in its other forms of assistance such as
guarantees, underwriting and syndications.  However, no new equity investments
are budgeted.  In order to achieve its ambitious business targets, PISO will
make necessary changes in its organization, staffing and business strategy.
It will promote its business relationship with private development banks to be
able to capture new business particularly outside the Metro MIanila area.
Details of PISOs projected operations, 1980-84, are given in Annex 55 T70



ANNEX 5
- 101 -                              Page 8
17.       Resource Requirement.  PISO would need substantial additional
resources to finance its new loan approvals. Its requirements of net addi-
tional foreign exchange resources up to middle of 1983 amount to about $93
million. PIS0 has recently obtained a second loan of $25 million from ADB.
The balance of the requirement is proposed to be met by borrowings from the
Central Bank (ADFU) under the proposed Bank loan ($40 million) and additional
borrowings from ADB in 1983. PISO expects to finance all its new peso loans
from IGLF, as in the past. It is expected that in the future, the financial
environment would be more conducive to mobilizing long-term resources as a
result of the policy reforms introduced in 1980 and those expected in the near
future. Once the new environment materializes, PIS0 should expand its peso
lending by raising funds from the market. ADFU would follow-up this aspect in
the context of its supervision of PIS0.
18.       Projected Financial Statements.  Based on the business targets
discussed in para. 16, PIS0 expects that its assets would increase from
P 231.3 million in 1979 to P 1,495.5 million in 1984 maintaining an
average growth rate of 45% per annum (Annex 5, T-8). The fastest growth of
62% per annum is shown by long-term portfolio rising from P 84.9 million in
1979 to P 956.2 million in 1984. Consequently, the proportion of long-term
assets in total assets will increase from 38.4% in 1979 to 69.5% in 1984. A
similar trend is shown by long-term debts. PIS0 has planned a capital
increase of P0 million in 1981 but even after this increase it would exceed
its present contractual long-term debt/equity ratio of 4:1. Considering the
excellent quality of its portfolio, its strong financial position, the
strength of its management and organization, and the planned capital increase
in 1981, it has been agreed between the Bank and ADFU that PISO's contractual
long-term debt/equity ratio will be relaxed to 6:1.  Since PISO's financial
projections show a need for a further capital increase in 1982, ADFU would
require PISO to furnish it, prior to accreditation, with specific proposals
for future capital increases. Based on its projected financial ratios PISO
would not need to relax its total debt/equity ratio limit presently set at
10:1. The projected liquidity ratios and debt service cover are all within
satisfactory limits.
19.       PISO expects rapid growth in its gross and net income; gross income
is projected to rise from P 24.0 million in 1979 to P 35.1 million in
1980, f 13.9 million in 1982 and P 174.3 million in 1984 (Annex 5, T-9).
As in the past, an increasing proportion of the gross income would be derived
from interest income from medium- and long-term loans. PISO-s projected net
income is P 8.2 million for 1980 (P 6.2 million in 1979), P 16.7 million
for 1981, P 24.7 million for 1982, P 34.8 million for 1983 and P 44.7
million for 1984. This level of net income would yield a return on equity of
17.6 to 32.4%.
AEPID
January 27, 1981



ANNEX 5
- 102 -                        Attachment 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
PHILIPPINE INVESTMENTS SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION
Policy Statement
A. PISO's Role and Objectives
1.        Corporate Character.  PISO is a financial institution which is:
essentially Philippine in origin, sentiment and character; committed to the
active promotion of development-oriented investments and to the provision
of financial assistance and related services to ensure the success of such
investments; systems oriented in its approach and operations; and reliant
upon the strength derived from its organization and the diversity of its
ownership. Its primary role will be to mobilize and allocate financial
resources as efficiently as possible to further the process of economic
development.
2.        Objectives.  As a participant in the process of resource
allocation, PISO will actively seek out and assist the development of
productive ventures and income-generating projects undertaken by privately-
controlled /1 business enterprises in various sectors of economic activity.
PISO will assist only those projects and ventures which, in its judgement,
are or will be financially, economically and technically viable, and are
properly organized and soundly managed. PISO will likewise participate
actively in furthering the development of the capital market in the
Philippines especially by way of long-term domestic and foreign resource
mobilization.
3.        Activities.  PISO will provide a full range of financial services,
and technical and management assistance as provided for in its Articles of
Incorporation.  These will include (but not be restricted to):  (a) the pro-
vision of medium- and long-term financing facilities /2 by way of domestic
/1 As used here, the term applies to enterprises in which private-ownership
represents a majority (greater than 50%) share. In this connection,
PISO explicitly recognizes the role that Government participation in
ownership may need to play in accelerating investment in certain areas.
/2 For financing fixed assets and working capital.



ANNEX 5
- 103 -                          Attachment 1
Page 2
and foreign currency loans, guarantees and equity participation;
(b) syndication, underwriting, private placement activities; (c) the
provision of financial packaging, consultancy and investment portfolio
management services; (d) leasing and hire-purchase facilities; and
(e) management consultancy assistance in association with its financial
services. On the resource mobilization side, PISO will continue in
expanding and diversifying the supply of financial instruments to stimulate
savings and channel them into longer-term maturities.
B. Guidelines for Operations
4.        Project Evaluation and Follow-up.  In providing assistance to any
project or enterprise, PISO will apply high professional standards in
evaluating: managerial aspects; technical aspects; market prospects;
financial viability and debt-service capability; and the economic viability
and desirability of such projects/enterprises. It will closely monitor
the implementation of projects and the eventual operations of the enterprises
to which it provides long-term assistance. Whenever it considers
necessary, PISO will provide constructive remedial advice to those enterprises
it perceives in present or eventual difficulty.
5.        Collateral.  In accordance with normal business practices, PISO
will obtain adequate security for the financial assistance it provides. PISO
will also take steps to have adequate insurance coverage obtained for its
security. Its investment decisions, however, will be guided primarily by
considerations relating to project merits.
6.        Investment Exposure Limits.  To ensure that its resources are
widely spread and prudently diversified, PISO shall adopt the following
guidelines:
(a) Total financial commitment /1 (including amounts of outstanding
and undisbursed commitments) to any single enterprise /2 shall not
/1 This term includes equity investments, loans and guarantees (excluding
short-term for the latter 2 categories). The term excludes exposures
covered by hold-out agreement or any firm off-setting arrangements on
debt extended to PISO.
/2 The term enterprise as used in this Statement shall include the enter-
prise and its subsidiaries whenever PISO has any investments in such
subsidiaries.



ANiNEX5
- 104 -                       Attachment 1
Page 3
normally exceed an amount equivalent to 25% of PISO's net
worth (defined as the sum of its paid-in unimpaired capital,
surpluses and reserves).
(b)  Total investment in any enterprise shall not normally exceed
50% of the assets of that enterprise if it is already
established or 75% if the enterprise is being newly established e
(c)  No outstanding equity investment made by PISO in any one enter-
prise shll normally exceed 49% of the paid-in share capital of
that enterprise and 15% of PISO s own net worth.  This limitation
will not apply to a subsidiary, if and when established by PISO.
(d)  The aggregate sum of PISOs equity investments shall not exceed
PISO's own net worth.
7.        Portfolio Diversification and Divestiture
(a)  PISO will endeavor to diversify its loan, equity and quarantee
investments in a wide variety of sectors and industries. It
will also exert its efforts to encourage investment in under-
developed regions and to actively promote the location of
investment outside the Metropolitan Manila Area.
(b)  In accordance with its views on capital market development and to
maximize the use of its own resources, PISO shall dispose of its
equity investments as early as practicable. In selling its
holdings, PISO shall consider, in addition to its own interests.
the interests of the other original participants in the
investments as well as the interests of the concern whose shares
are being disposed of. PISO will endeavor to diversify, as
widely as possible, ownership in the entities in which it invests.
8.        New Entrepreneur/Enterprise Promotion.  In its operations, PTSO
will stress the promotion of new entrepreneurs and enterprises. Broadening
the entrepreneurial base in the Philippines will be one of PIS0-s operational
objectives. To this end, PISO will exert reasonable efforts to: (a) extenJd
financial and technical assistance to small- and medium-scale enterprises:11
and (b) attempt to develop a client base of enterprises which, by virtue of
their size, age, ownership or location, have not enjoyed ready access to
financial assistance as have larger, more established and better-known
corporations.
/1 As defined by the Department of Industry.



ANNEX 1
- 105 -                           Attachment 1
Page 4
9.        Relations with Client Enterprises.  Recognizing the value and
implications of sound lender-borrower relationships, PISO will adhere to
the following policies in its dealing with client firms:
(a) PISO shall not normally seek to control any of the enterprises
that it finances nor to assume primary responsibility for the
management of such enterprises, except in the event that its
interests are jeopardized, in which case, it may take such action
as may be necessary to protect its interests. A higher
percentage of equity holding than mentioned in 6(c) above may
also result from an underwriting commitment undertaken with the
expectation that the eventual investment would be within the
cited limit. Every attempt will be made to reduce the equity
holding to the maximum limit mentioned in 6(c) above as soon as
practicable, all factors considered.
(b) PISO shall requiest its clients to establish and maintain up-to-
date records and accounts in accordance with generally accepted
accounting practices, and furnish whatever information it may
reasonably request on their operations and accounts. Under its
financial contracts, PISO will establish its right to inspect
the enterprises it finances as well as their operations and
accounts.
(c) PISO shall honor the confidences of its clients. In this
connection: no member of PISOs Board, by virtue of his/her
membership, shall have access to information submitted by
clients to PISO0s management or staff when, in the view of
management, such access would prejudice the interest of the
client.
10.       Dispersal of Ownership.  PISO will strive to broaden its
ownership base as widely as possible. PISO will take all possible steps
to prevent any one person, entity or group from dominating its ownership
or management.
C. Financial Policy Guidelines
11.       Capital Structure, Liquidity and Debt Service.  In the conduct of
its business affairs, PISO shall exercise due financial prudence and shall
ensure that its capital structure remains sound, a reasonable liquidity



ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 5
position is maintained and that its cash inflow is always sufficient to
allow a confortable margin for servicing its debt.
12.       Reserves and Dividends.  PT-SO will adhere to a prudent dividend
policy which will allow it to provide a fair return on shareholders invest-
ments and simultaneously allow for building-up retained earnings and reserves
at a reasonable rate.  At a mlnimum, PISO shall plow back at least 40% of
its average net earnings in any given fiscal year as retained earnings.
PISO will provide, by charges against income, valuation reserves consistent
with the size and quality of its loan and equity portfolio. From time to
time, PISO shall appropriate as necessary a portion of its retained earnings
to surplus reserves to ensure that they adequately reflect the size and risks
of its portfolio and to protect its equity against erosion.
13.       Foreign Exchange Risk.  It is PISO's policy not to expose itself
to foreign exchange risks associated with foreign currency obligations/trans-
actions. Accordingly, PISO shall, to the extent possible, pass such risks
on to its clients or arrange, on behalf of clients, for forward cover on
such risks at no cost to itself, or make any other arrangement which
insulates PISO from bearing any part of such risks.
D. Relationships with Government Authorities
14.       PISO shall, at all times, maintain cooperative working relationships
with various government agencies and authorities with respect to its
investment operations and its activities toward capital market development.
Its operations will be consistent with overall government economic policies.
E. Organization and Staffing Policies
15.       In furtherance of its institutional capabilities and to assist
its clients to the fullest possible extent, PISO shall, on a continuing
basis, build and strengthen its management and staff, and evolve an efficient
and sound organizational structure.  To those ends, it shall adopt equitable
and competitive recruitment, employment and compensation policies. PISO
shall provide for continuous training of its staff, realizing as it does, the
importance of human resources.  PISO shall endeavor to ensure that its staff



ANNEX 5
- 107 -                        Attachment 1
Page 6
are of a high professional calibre and represent an appropriate mix of
professional qualifications, ability and experience to permit the
achievement of its corporate objectives in the most efficient manner.
F. Revision of Policies
16.       This Policy Statement may be amended only by the affirmative vote
of at least two-thirds of all directors.
AEPID
January 27, 1981



- 108 -                             ANNEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippine Investments Systems Organization
Resource Position, as of March 31, 1980
1. Long-term Resources
A.  Local Currency                                           P million
Equity:  Share capital reserve                      33.8
Retained earnings                         11.2           45.0
Long-term borrowings                                               11.0
Total Local Currency Resources                                     56.0
Less:    Local currency loans outstanding           11.5
Equity investments                         2.3           13.8
Resources available for disbursement                               42.2
Less:    Undisbursed peso commitments                               -
Resources available for commitments                                42.2
B.  Foreign Currency                                         US$ million
US Eximbank                                          1.5 /a
Other loans                                          1.5 /a
IBRD/ADB                                           30.0
Total Foreign Currency Resources                                   33.0
Less:    Foreign currency loan disbursements                       12.5
Undisbursed resources                                              20.5
Less:    Undisbursed foreign currency loan
commitments                                            8.8
Uncommitted foreign currency resources                             11.7
Less:    Uncommitted foreign currency loan
approvals                                              7.8
Foreign Currency Resources Available for
Approvals                                                       3.9
2.  Short-term Peso Resources                                     P million
Short-term investments outstanding                                     88.3
Short-term notes and commercial papers sold                            83.9
Net                                                                 4.4
Add: Remaining current assets minus current
liabilities                                                  28.6
Net current assets                                                 33.0
/a The US Eximbank has approved a credit line of US$1.5 million under its
"cooperative financing facility" program for the period 1976-78; these
funds can only be used if matched with an equal amount from other US Bank
sources. One million has been matched so far with funds from the
Continental Bank International Pacific and Rainier National Bank.
AEPID
January 27, 1981



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Private Investments Systems Organization
Summary of Operations, March 1, 1974-March 31, 1980
(P'000)
March 1, 1974 to                                                                                                    1980          Cumulative
December 31, 1974           1975              1976             1977              1978              1979        (three months)          total
No.   Amount        No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount    No.   Amount
Approvals
Loans                         -          -         1      3,000      2     8,500      4      8,750    19    91,995    31   105,080          8    27,175       65  244,500
Equity investments            1         25         -          -      -          -     -          -      -          -      1      2,250      -          -       2    2,275
Guarantees                    -          -         1      2,250      -          -     2      7,450      -          -      4    26,250       3    24,375       10   60,325
Underwriting/private
placements                  -          -         2      5,700      -          -     1      3,000      4    23,500       3      7,800      -          -      10   40,000
Syndications                  -          -         4   105,850       2     9,638      5   238,250       6   120,200       5    87,250       2    86,280       24  647,468
Total approvals          1         25         8   116,800      4    18,138    12   257,450    29   235,695    44   228,630    13   137,830    111  994,568
Commitments
Loans                         -          -         1      3,000      2     8,500      4      8,740    19    91,995    31   105,080          8    27,175       65  244,500
Equity investments             1        25         -          -      -          -     -           -     -          -      1      2,250      -          -       2    2,275
Guarantees                    -          -         1          -      -      2,250      2     5,200      -          -      4    26,250       -          -       7   33,700
Total commitments        1         25         2     3,000      2    10,750       6    13,950    19    91,995    36   133,580           8    27,175       74  280,475
Disbursements
Loans                                -        -               -      1      3,000      4     8,120      3      1,500    22    80,320        6    10,662       36  103,602
Equity investments             -         -         1         13      -          -      -          -     -          -      1      2,250      -          -       2    2,263
Total disbursements    -            -         1         13      1     3,000      4      8,120      3      1,500    23    82L570        6    10,662       38  105,863
Guarantees issued                           --                   -     1      2,250      2      4,700      -          -     4    26,250       -           -      7   33,200
Average monthly money
market operations                                                                               108              500               675               515
AEPID
January 27, 1981                                                                                                                                                              m >x



- 110 -                                                                                           AtNFY 5
PHILIPPINES
INOUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippia.s Ieoestseets System Oranaeaoti-o
Characteristios of Loana Approved, 1975-80 (March 31)
(P'000)
1975                    1976                    1977                     1978                    1979              19Pn (3 roroth)         Cosolotive total
Nc.  A.ono t  total    No.  Amoo.t  total    No.  Asoat  total    No.  A... total    No.  Af.ocnt  tote]    No.  At.o.nt  totol    No.   A..ort   ot.ol
Sectoral Dittribhtion
Food r nufacrtu g                  -        -    -         -        -    -          -       -    -          1      500    0.7       3   T,500    1.4         1   2,5S90     .4        5    4,s55 S    .
Tetlile cordage & tsialo           -        -    -         -        _    -          _       _    -          1   5,625    6.1        -        -    -          -        -    -         1    5,625      2.3
Apparel cod other
fioished product                 -       -    -          -        -    -         -        -    -          2   1,000    1.1        1      400    7.3        -        -    -         3    1,400    0.
Lebser cod aced peoducers          -        -    -         1   7,500   71.4         1   7,500   85.7        -        -    -          2     050    0.7        _           _            4   15,R50    5.7
F-reit-re and f intore
.noefac-oro                      -        -              -        -    -          1     500    5.7        -        -    -         -        -    -          -        -    -                 5 n7    07
Paper cod pap-r prodocet           -        -    -         -        -    -          -       -    -          2   4,075    5.3         1     50o    0.5        -        -    -          3    5,307     2.7
Leather cod leathor prod-t. c        a                     -        -    -          -       -               1   1,125      1.2       1     500    0.5        -        _    -          2    1,675    r.7
Rubber pr-d-cts                    -        -    -         -        -    -          -       -               2  15,500   16.9        3  22,775   21.1         1   7,S57     77.7       6   45,400   1P.r
Ch-rile and ohoolc-l
prodecto                         -       -    -          -        -    -         -        -    -          2   7,095    6.5        2   2,755    4.3         7   5,71n   18.4        6   13,770      7.6
Metal induotries                                           I _    _  1   1,000   28.6  -    -    -          -        -    -          3   6,350    6.7        2   3,007   14.0         6   11,150     4.6
Other anu-factuing induttr               r---              -        -    -          1     250    2.9        4   1,500    1.6         7  27,857   26.0        1        0OO    2.    13   31,400   12.0
Otal                         -        -    -          2   8,500  100.0        3   9,250   94.3        15  36,120   39.2       23  64,58n   62.4         7  10,675   72.4       50  137,125   5671
Telocostoo-ic-tito                   -        -    -         -        -    -          -        -    -         2  48,750   53.0         -       -    -          -        -    -          2   48,750   19.
Shippiog                             -        -    -         -        -    -          -       -    -          2   7,125    7.8         2  10,875   10.3        1   7,500   27.6         5   27,5n0    10.4
Extractixe icdostrios                -        -    -         -        -    -          -        -    -         -        -    -          2  22,500   20.0        -        -    -          2   27,500    0 _
ServIce.                             1   3,000  100.0        -        -    -          1     500    5.7        -        -    -          4   7,125    6.4        -        -    -         6   10,625      4.4
Total                        1   3,C00   100.0        2   8,500  100.0        4   8,750  100.0       19  91,095  100.0        31 105,OR7  100.0        0  77,175  InO.0        65  244,500  177.t
Geographicol Spread
Mtetropollta  Manile                 1   3,000  100.0         1   1,000   11.8        3   1,250   14.3       12  03,870   91.2        14  42,77S   4n.7        6  73,125   05.1        37  155,020   63.4
Ilocosaod M. Province                -        -    -         -        -    -          -       -    -          -        -    -          1     500    0.5        -        -    -          1      500    n.2
Conceal L.oe.                        -        -    -          -       -    -          -        -    -         6   2,500    2.7         6  14,2R0    13.6       -        -    -         12   16,780    6.0
Soathero Taealog                     -        -    -          -       -    -          -        -    -         -        -    -          8  29,900   20.4        2   4,0S0   14.9        10   33,0   13.0
Northecotern Miodoana                -        -    -          1   7,500   88.2        1   7,500   85.7        1   5,625    6.1         2  17,625   16.0        -        -    -          7   30,250   15.6
Total                         1   3,000  100.0        2           2,300  100.0  4   8,750  100.0      19  91,995  100.0       31 105,000  IO.0        8  27,175  Itn.t        65  244,507  710.7
Site of Lo.as (P '000)
0-   499                          -        -    -         -        -    -          1     250    2.9        3      870    0.0        4   1,230    1.2        -        -    -         7    7,130    1.0
500-   999                          -        -    -         -        -    -          2   1,000   11.4        6   3,100      3.3      13   6,500    6.7        1      907    2.9      72   11,200    4.5
1,000- 3,499                          1  :3.000  100.0         1   1,000   11.8        -        -    -         3   5,625    6.1         3   7,200    6.9        5  11,550   01.0       15   20,075   11.5
3,500- 6,995                                                                                                   4 -    _  _  _    _  _  _    -  A  18,750   20.4  6  30,150   28.7  -  -    -  10   40,001   00
7,004-15,999                          -        -    -          1   7,500   88.2        1   7,500   85.7        1  15, 00     16.3       5  60,000   57.1        2  15,007    55.3       10  175 025   43 n
16,000 todovee                         -        -    -          -       -    -          -        -    -          7  40,750   53.0        -        -    -                                  2   4A 750   Iq.0
Total                               1 000  100.0          2   8,500  100.0         4   8,750  170.0       19  91,995  100.0       31 175,090  170.0         0  27,175   007.0      65  244,500  1012.0
Average aioe                                3,000                   4,250                    2,187                   4,B42                    3,390                   3,107                     1,762
Natoritlas
0- 2.9 years
3- 4.9  oar                                  -                   I 1,000   11.8        1      250    2.9       -        -    -          2     857    0.R        -        -    -         4    2,100    0.0
5- 6.9 years                          1   3,000  100.0         1   7,500   88.2        3   8,500   97.1       11  10,995   12.0        16  10,255    9.5        3   4,850   17.8       35   45,'0n0  I0.4
7- 9.9 y-ae                               -    -                                                              4  11,625   12.6         4  19,575   18.9        1   2,500    9.2        9   33,700    13.-
10-12.0 years                          -        -       -                          -           -    -         4  69,375   75.4         9  74,407   70.        4  19,925   73.0       17  15,602n  66.9
T00-0                             1   3,000  100.0        2   8,500  100.0         4   P,750  100.0    12  91,         105 0O(.O  30 109,080  100.O 0          27,175  100.0       65  744,500  100.0
Arerege   aa n aotrlty by:
Nonber                                   6 years                 5 yses-                5.5 years                7.7 years              7.  y76 years                                     7.1 years
Ato==t                                   6 yearn                 5.8 years              5.9 years               10.2 years             10.0 years                9.9 yearn                0.7 years
Local vs. Forelgn Coere=cy
L.OCAIl curreecy                     1   3,000  100.0         1   1,000   11.8        3   1,250   14.7        9   7,670    4.2        17   7,030    7.4        3   9,170   53.5       34   75,057   40.6
Foreign corrency                     -        -    -          1   7,500   88.2        1   7,500   85.7       10  88,125   95.8        14  97,350   92.6        5  18,075   66.5       51  210,75    99.4
Total                             1   3,000  100.0        2   8,500  100.0         4   8,750   0O00,      19  91,Qq5  100.0       31 10,080  1OO.C         0  27,175  in0o7       65  244,500  100.0
Ne-vs. oEtiti.g Projets
e_                                            -    -          -        -    -         -        -    -          2   3,875    4.2        -  16,177    15.4       2   4,750   17.5        10   24,800   10.1
Elioting                             1   3,000  100.0         2   8,500  100.0        4   8,750  100.0       17  88,120   95.0        25  F0,905   84.6        6  22,425   92.5       59  219,707   80.0
Total                             1   3,000  1000         2 R,500   100.0          4 8,750  10.0          19  91,995  100.0       31 105,080  100.0          0 27,175  100.0       65  244,500  100.1
AEPID
January 27, 1981



ANNEX 5
- lll -                                         Table 4
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippines Investments System Organization
Summarized Balance Sheets, December 31, 1975-79 and March 31, 1980
(P'000)
1975      1976      1977     1978       1979     1980/a
(March 311)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                     2,953    9,528   12,028   28,863   20,845    17,623
Short-term investments                 101,771   96,834   95,610  142,118   92,686    88,322
Allowance for doubtful accounts           (200)  (1,500)  (2,500)  (2,800)  (4,000)   (4,000)
Net short-term investments    101,571   95,334   93,110  139,318   88,686    84,322
Medium/long-term loans
due within one year                        -       480    1,779    4,025    9,894           442
Interest receivable                      3,149    4,013    4,546       7,787   12,279    10,702
Prepaid expenses and
other current assets                     409    4,924      7,504    7,658   10,250    20,869
Total current assets             108,082  114,279  118,967  187,651  141,954   133,958
Long-Term Portfolio
Medium/long-term loans (net
of current portion)                        -    1,440    5,317   11,107   85,741    90,036
Allowance for doubtful accounts              -         -         -   (1,700)  (3,000)   (3,700)
Net medium/long-term loans              -    1,440    5,317    9,407   82,741    86,336
Investments in equity                        -         -         -         -    2,250       2,250
Total                                   -    1,440    5,317    9,407   84,991    88,586
Property and equipment - at cost
(net of accumulated depreciation)          657       759       725    1,231      1,534      1,081
Other assets                                 178       139       520    1,175    2,805        6,159
Total assets                     108,917  116,617  125,529  199,464  231,284   229,784
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued
expenses                               2,421     7,615    8,842    4,810   10,326         9,696
Income tax payable                          62        47         -         -         -          -
Interest payable                         1,761    2,400    2,225    2,590    2,472          2,577
Securities sold under agree-
ment to repurchase                    47,253   32,060   55,424   88,106   51,456    73,131
PISO notes sold                         33,446   49,344   25,831   52,091   33,352    10,740
Medium/long-term debt
within one year                            -         -    1,215    2,529    9,073         1,241
Total current liabilities         84,943   91,466   93,537  150,126  106,679    97,385
Medium/long-term debt                        -         -    4,190    7,984   65,751    70,289
Debt for the eventual risk
of fund source                             -         -         -    1,291   15,019    17,122
Total medium/long-term debt             -         -    4,190    9,275   80,770    87,411
Stockholders- Equity
Paid-in capital                         20,115   20,135   23,609   33,610   33,763    33,763
Retained earnings                        3,859    5,016    4,193    6,453   10,072    11,225
Total stockholders- equity        23,974   25,151   27,802   40,063   43,835    44,988
Total liabilities and
stockholders- equity           108,917  116,617  125,529  199,464  231,284   229,784
Contingent Liabilities                         -    2,002    6,605    9,466    3,520          3,520
Ratios
Current ratio                             1.3        1.2       1.3       1.2       1.3        1.4
Long-term  debt to equity                 -          -         0.4       0.5       1.8        1.7
Long-term debt (including debt
for eventual risk of fund
source) to equity                       -          -         0.4       0.5       2.1        2.0
Total debt to equity                      3.5        3.7       3.8       4.2       4.0        3.8
Total debt (including debt for
eventual risk of fund
source) to equity                       3.5        3.7       3.8       4.2       4.4        4.2
Debt-service cover                        -          -         5.5       3.8       2.0        2.0
/a Unaudited.



ANNEX 5
- 112 -                              Table 5
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippines Investments System Organization
Summarized Income Statements, 1975-79 and 1980 (March 31)
(P'O0O)
1980/a
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979  (3 mos.)
Income
Interest on medium/long-
term loans                          -      323      971   1,107   7,346   3,140
Income on short-term
investments                    11,038  11,425   9,179   7,349  11,853   2,602
Other income                      1,220   2,307   3,296   4,278   4,789   1,096
Total income                12,258  14,055  13,446  12,734  23,988   6,838
Expenses
Financial expenses
Interest on medium/long-
term debts                        -      246      468      611   4,876   1,924
Interest on short-term
debts                         5,394   7,945   4,934   1,249   4,312          212
Provision for doubtful
accounts & decline in
value of investments            200   1,300   1,000   2,000   2,500          700
Total                        5,594   9,491   6,402   3,860  11,688   2,836
General & administrative
expenses
Manpower cost                   1,118   1,107   2,010   2,809   4,970   1,468
Depreciation & amortization        78      118      158      216      153       73
Others                          1,031   1,317   1,637   1,920   1,898  .  586
Total                        2,227   2,542   3,805   4,945   7,021   2,127
Total expenses               7,821  12,033  10,207   8,805  18,709   4,963
Income before tax                   4,437   2,022   3,293   3,929   5,279   1,875
Provision for/(deferred) tax         1,394    (343)   (283)   (700)   (875)          -
Net income                          3,043   2,365   3,522   4,629   6,154   1,875
Ratios
As % of average total assets:
Gross income                     16.4    12.5    11.1        7.8    11.1    12.0/b
Financial expenses                7.5      8.5      5.2      2.4      5.4      5.2
General and administrative
expenses                        3.0      2.2      3.2      3.0      3.3     3.6
Total expenses                10.5    10.7       8.4      5.4      8.7     8.8
Income before tax                 5.9      1.8      2.7      2.4      2.4      3.2
Net income                        4.1      2.1      2.9      2.8      2.8      3.2
Net income as % of:
Paid-in capital                  13.0      9.6    13.3    13.6    14.7    16.8
Net worth                        15.1    11.8    14.9    13.8    18.2    22.4
Cash dividends as % of par        -        6.0      6.0      8.0      8.0      -
Dividend pay-out ratio            -       51.1    35.9    51.1    41.2         -
Book value as % of par          119.2   124.8   117.8   119.2   129.8   141.7
/a Unaudited.
7b Ratios for 1980 are on an annual basis.



- 113 -ANE 
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippines Investments System Organization
Status of Loan Portfolio, as of June 30, 1980
(P'000)
Principal                      Arrears on
Number of   outstanding         Arrears    % principal
companies   Amount   %        Amount   %   outstanding
A. Operating Profitably
Regular                       12       80,111   76.0
Small/medium                  22       10,122    9.6
Subtotal                34       90,233   85.6
B. Preoperating stage, not
in technical or
financial difficulties
Regular                      5        5,550    5.3
Small/medium                 -            -    -
Subtotal                  5       5,550    5.3
C. In technical and or
financial difficulties
In current status
Regular                      2        7,800    7.4      -     -
Affected by Arrears
Small/medium                 5        1,728    1.6   166/a  53.2         9.6
Regular                      1          146    0.1   146/b  46.8       100.0
Subtotal                  8       9,674    9.1   312   100.0          3.2
Total                    47     105,457  100.0   312   100.0          0.3
/a  Arrears of not more than 90 days.
/b Financed from PISO's resources.



-114-                                              ANNEX 5
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippines Investments System Organization
Forecast of Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, 1980-84
(P000)
Actual     _                   Projections
1979       1980        1981        1982        1983       1984
Approvals
Foreign currency loans
IBRD/ADB/other sources                100,050    165,000   196,500    237,000    273,000    315,000
Industrial guarantee loan fund
Small-scale                             7,730       7,500      9,000      10,800      12,500      14,000
Medium-scale                                 -     23,500    25,000       26,800      28,500      30,000
Guarantees                               26,250      50,000    60,000       72,000      82,800       95,200
Underwritings/private placements          7,800      50,000   100,000       250,00    312,500    390,600
Syndication                              87,250    340,000   408,000    489,600    563,000    647,500
Equity investment                         2,250            -          -           -           -           -
Total                              231,330    636,000   798,500  1,086,200  1,272,300  1,492,300
Commitments
Equity investment                         2,250            -          -           -           -           -
Foreign currency loans
IBRD/ADB/other sources                100,050    105,000   184,600    222,150    258,755    298,395
Industrial guarantee loan fund
Small-scale                             7,730       7,625      8,625      10,350      12,075      13,625
Medium-scale                                 -     17,625    24,625       26,350      28,075      29,625
Guarantees                               26,250      40,000    58,000       69,600      80,600      92,800
Total                              136,280    170,250   275,850    328,450    379,505    434,445
Disbursements
Equity investment                         2,250            -          -           -           -
Foreign currency loans
IBRD/ADB other sources                 74,220      84,033   148,013    195,432    233,711    270,280
Industrial guarantee loan fund
Small-scale                             6,100       6,887      8,438      10,125      11,862      13,438
Medium-scale                                 -     14,685    24,436       26,125      27,436      29,060
Total                               82,570    105,605   180,887    231,682    273,009    312,778
Issuance of guarantees                     26,250      16,950    51,040        62,100      73,710      84,620



ANNEX 5
- 115 -                                                  Table 8
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippines Investments System Organization
Projected Balance Sheets, 1980-83
(P000)
Audited
1979        1980        1981        1982      1983         1984
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                     20,845      23,000      27,000      33,000      40,000       48,000
Short-term investments                   92,686    139,182      180,480    227,326    289,064    364,630
Less allowance                            4,000       4,000       2,620       3,420        4,420       4,100
Net investments                    88,686    135,182    177,860    223,906    284,644    360,530
Medium/long-term loans
due within one year                     9,894       6,467      19,371      33,823      58,092      92,239
Interest receivable                      12,279       5,403       6,090       7,459        9,356      11,768
Prepaid expenses and
other current assets                   10,250      14,696      15,430      16,202      17,012       17,862
Total current assets              141,954    184,748    245,751    314,390    409,104    530,399
Long-Term Portfolio
Medium/long-term loans                   85,741    182,966    344,482       542,341    757,260    977,999
Less allowance                            3,000       5,800      10,480      13,680       17,680      24,000
Net loans                          82,741     177,166    334,002    528,661    739,580    953,999
Investments in equity                     2,250       2,250       2,250       2,250        2,250       2,250
Total long-term portfolio          84,991    179,416    336,252    530,911    741,830    956,249
Property and equipment - at cost
(net of accumulated depreciation)         1,534       2,422       2,503       2,693       2,962        3,259
Other assets                                2,805       4,626       4,857        5,100       5,355       5,623
Total assets                      231,284    371,212    589,363    853,094  1,159,251  1,495,530
LIABILITIES & STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable and accrued
expenses                               10,326      11,052      11,604      12,185      12,794      13,433
Interest payable                          2,472       4,467       4,770       5,310       6,445        7,737
Securities sold under agreement
to repurchase                         51,456    102,500    120,000    145,000    178,000    215,000
PISO notes payable                       33,352      12,500      15,000      20,000       22,000      25,000
Medium/long-term debt due within
one year                                9,073       5,407       8,886      14,150      22,683      34,011
Total current liabilities         106,679    135,926    160,260    196,645    241,922    295,181
Medium/long-term debt (net of portion
shown under current liabilities)         65,751      80,406    107,648    166,104    227,124    287,657
Delete for eventual risk of fund
source                                   15,019    105,870    249,569    398,160    567,795    750,820
Total medium/long-term debts    80,770    186,276    357,217    564,264    794,919  1,038,477
Stockholders' Equity
Paid-in capital                          31,752      36,515      44,515      51,192      51,192       58,871
Capital surplus                           2,011       2,011       4,01i       4,011        4,011       4,011
Retained earnings                        10,072      10,484      23,360      36,982       67,207      98,990
Total stockholders' equity         43,835      48,010       71,886      92,185    122,410    161,872
Total liabilities and
stockholders' equity            231,284    371,212    589,363    853,094  1,159,251  1,495,530
Contingent liabilities              3,520       18,507      68,942    126,830    186,686    245,023
(guarantees)
Ratios
Current ratio                               1.3         1.4         1.5          1.6         1.7         1.8
Long-term debt to equity                    1.8         2.1          2.6         3.3         3.6         3.5
Long-term debt (including debts
for eventual risk of fund
source) to equity                         2.1         4.3         6.0         7.6          8.2         8.1
Total debt to equity                        4.0         4.8         4.7          5.3         5.4         5.1
Total debt (including debts for
eventual risk of fund
source) to equity                         4.4         7.0         8.2         9.6         10.0         9.7
Debt-service cover                          2.0         1.4          1.6         1.5         1.5         1.4



- 116 -                                   ANNEX 5
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippines Investments System Oganization
Projected Income Sheets, 1980-84
(P'000)
Actual
1979    1980    1981    1982        1983      1984
Income
Interest on medium/long-
term loans                     7,346  18,914  39,068  63,441   92,758  124,57.6
Income on short-term
investments                   11,853   9,634  13,074  16,498   21,182   26,887
Other income                      4,789   6,598   9,396  13,930   18,033   22,850
Total income               23,988  35,146  61,538  93,869  131,973  .174,313
Expenses
Financial expenses
Interest & other charges
on medium/long-term debts  4,876  13,162  27,189  44,204   64,933   87,214
Interest on short-term
debts                        4,312   1,050   1,665   2,160    2,550    2,835
Provision for doubtful
accounts and decline in
value of investments         2,500   2,800   3,300   4,000    5,000    6,000
Total                      11,688  17,012  32,154  50,364   72,483   96,049
General and administrative
expenses                        7,021   9,976  12,697  15,986   19,686   24,032
Total expenses             18,709  26,988  44,851  66,350   92,169  120,081
Income before tax                   5,279   8,158  16,687  27,519   39,804   54,232
Provision for tax (deferred)         (875)       -        -   2,800    4,990    9,510
Net income                  6,154   8,158  16,687  24,719   34,814   44,722
Ratios
As % of average total assets:
Gross income                     11.1    11.7    12.8    13.0        13.1      13.1
Financial expenses                5.4     5.7      6.7      7.0       7.2       7.2
General and administrative
expenses                       3.3      3.3      2.6      2.-2      2.0       1.8
Total expenses                8.7      9.0      9.3      9.2       9.2       9.0
Income before taxes               2.4     2.7      3.5      3.8       3.9       4.1
Net income                        2.8      2.7     3.5      3.4       3.4       3.4
Net income as % of:
Average equity                   14.7    17.6    27.6    30.1        32.4      31.5
Share capital at year-end        18.2    21.2    34.4    44.8        63.1      71.1
Cash dividend as % of par         8.0      9.0     9.0      9.0       9.0       9.0
Dividend pay-out ratio           41.2    40.3    22.9    18.6        13.2      11.8
Book value as % of par          129.8   134.2   161.5   180.1    239.1    275.0



ANNEX 5
- 117                                  Table 10
PIIILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Philippines Investments System Organization
Projected Cash-Flow Statements, 1980-84
(P'000)
1980       1981       1982       1983       1984
Cash & short-term placements -
beginning                         113,531   162,182   207,480   260,326   329,064
Inflows
Increase in share capital               -    10,000            -
Net profit before income tax        8,158    16,687    27,519    39,804    54,232
Depreciation                          414         496        596        608        729
Provision for doubtful
loans and decline in
value of investments              2,800      3,300      4,000      5,000      6,000
Drawdown on foreign
currency loans                   84,033   148,013   195,432   233,711   270,280
Increase in payables -
other items                         726        552        581        609        639
Loan collections                   19,849      6,467    19,371    33,821    57,892
Increase in short-term
borrowings                       30,192    20,000    30,000    35,000    40,000
Total receipts               146,172   205,515   277,499   348,553   429,772
Outflows
Increase in fixed assets            1,323        577         786        877      1,026
Increase (decrease in
interest receivables/
payables                         (8,871)       384        829         762      1,120
Disbursements on foreign
currency loans                   84,033   148,013   195,432   233,711   270,280
Loan repayment to creditors        11,807      6,467    19,371    33,821    57,892
Increase in other assets            6,246         965     1,015       1,065      1,118
Payment of cash dividends           2,983      3,811      4,420      4,589       5,260
Payment of income tax                    -          -     2,800       4,990      9,510
Total dibursements            97,521   160,217   224,653   279,815   346,206
Cash & short-term placements
end                             162,182   207,480   260,326   329,064   412,630



118-                           ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
A Review of Institutional, Operational and Financial Aspects
Background and DBP's Role in the Economy
1.        DBP was established in 1958 under Republic Act No. 2081 (RA 2081) as
an autonomous Government-owned development bank with a mandate to supply
credit for the reconstruction and development of the agricultural and indus-
trial sectors. In 1964, it was also given the responsibility of promoting the
establishment of private development banks (PDBs) throughout the Philippines.
DBP stands out in the Philippine financial system as the largest supplier of
long-term credit. At the end of 1979, it had total assets of P 22 billion
(US$2.9 billion) which represented 11% of the total assets of the Philippine
financial system; its long-term loan portfolio of P 12.8 billion accounted
for almost half of total outstanding long-term credit of the financial sector.
Through its lending, equity investments and guarantee operations, DBP was
responsible for financing 7.3% /1 of gross fixed capital formation in 1979.
DBP's financing operations (loans, equity investments and guarantees)
encompass almost all segments of the economy. The bulk of DBP's financing,
however, has gone to the private industrial sector covering both large- and
small-scale industrial enterprises. DBP has also been very active in
providing loans to small farmers and in agricultural financing for food and
commercial crops, grain storage and processing, fisheries, livestock and
poultry. Besides, DBP provides finance for real estate (mainly low-cost
housing, hospitals, schools and hotels), shipping, transport, and income-
generating projects of municipal and provincial governments. In addition, DBP
has been instrumental in promoting and developing a large number of PDBs and
rural banks throughout the Philippines. As a key government financial
institution, DBP has also been directed at times by the Government to carry
out special operations, such as lending programs for victims of natural
calamaties. In short, the sheer volume of its operations, the predominantly
long-term nature of its operations, the diversity of its financing services
and the wide spectrum of sectors it serves make DBP an extremely important
institution in the Philippine economy.
/1  Net of refinancing operations.



ANNEX 6
-119 -                           Page 2
Institutional Aspects
2.        DBP's Board, Organization, Management and Staff.  The overall
control and direction of DBP is entrusted to a 9 member Board of Governors.
The five full-time governors including the Chairman, and the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) and the Vice-Chairman constitute the top management team.
However, the present Board is not at full strength as the vacancy recently
created by the death of a full-time Governor has not been filled. Mr. Rafael
A. Sison succeeded Dr. Placido L. Mapa, Jr./l in June 1979 as Chairman and
CEO of DBP in an acting capacity; prior to this promotion he was a full-time
governor of DBP. Mr. Sison is concurrently a Deputy Minister of Industry; in
that capacity, he is actively involved in the formulation of the country's
industrial policies. DBP has a large organization consisting of 30
departments at the Head Office and 62 branches/subbranches scattered all over
the country. Operating departments are divided into four groups each
reporting to one supervising Governor; a grouping of support departments is
under the direct supervision of the Chairman. In the past two years some
important organizational modifications were introduced to: (a) place all
agriculture related departments under the charge of one supervising governor;
(b) reduce the number of departments reporting directly to the Chairman; and
(c) create new departments for better handling of trust operations, large
problem projects, and manpower development. At the branch level, DBP
introduced sectoral specialization among the staff with a view to improving
their operational efficiency.
3.        At the department level, DBP's management has remained relatively
stable. With relatively low staff turnover /2 and increasing experience of
staff, a gradual deepening and improvement in DBP's middle management layer is
discernible.  As of December 31, 1979, DBP had 4,896 staff /3 (with 50%
located in the branches), up from the 3,501 employed as of August 31, 1977.
The increase did much towards alleviating the staff shortages noted by the
Bank in October 1977, but has necessitated extensive training of new recruits.
Recognizing this need, DBP has intensified its training program through the
introduction of an intensive industrial projects course, with the active
assistance from the Bank Group, and through the establishment of a new
department exclusively for manpower development.
/1 Dr. Mapa Jr. is currently an Executive Director of the IMF.
/2  The turnover rate has declined from 3.6% of average staff in 1976 to
2.5% in 1977, 2% in 1978 and further to 1.6% in 1979.
/3 Of whom 60% are professional.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
- 120 -
4.        Organization and Staffing for Industrial Lending.  The funds to be
allocated for DBP under the proposed Bank loan would be handled by Industrial
Projects Department I (IPD I). Since the last Bank appraisal of DBP for
industrial lending, IPD I's organization has undergone two changes: (a) split
of project supervision responsibility into Account Servicing Group
(disbursements and billing plus supervision of projects up to completion
stage) and Project Supervision Group (supervision of completed projects); and
(b) creation of four industry divisions within each operating group (Project
Evaluation, Account Servicing and Project Supervision) to introduce industry
specialization. The industry specialization has enabled the staff of IPD I to
acquire a better appreciation of characteristics and problems of specific
industries and thereby has led to better efficiency. However, the splitting
of the project supervision responsibilities has not had any significant
beneficial effect on the efficiency of the project supervision work. More-
over, the reorganization has created a top heavy departmental organizational
structure,/l and hampered the professional growth of IPD I's staff as a result
of excessive functional specialization (para. 6). These problems are planned
to be alleviated with some modifications in the department's organization.
These modifications would regroup Project Evaluation Group and Supervision
Group to form two integrated operating units on the basis of industry
specialization. Each unit would be headed by an Assistant Executive Officer
(AEO) who will supervise both project appraisal and follow-up work.  The
Account Servicing Group would focus only on bookkeeping service.
5.        Operating Policies.  Within the framework of its Charter, the broad
guidelines governing DBP's industrial financing are covered in a statement
agreed upon with the Bank under Loan No. 998-PH (Annex 6, Attachment 1). The
guidelines established therein are augmented by specific Board resolutions.
During the past two years, some major policy changes were introduced with a
view to: (a) enhancing operational efficiency (e.g., increase in discretionary
authority for managers); (b) setting out guidelines on trust operations; and
(c) expanding and liberalizing DBP's financial assistance to PDBs. Moreover,
DBP is in the process of formulating appropriate policies on its refinancing
(para. 12), and "dacion en pago" operations (para. 13); these policies will
be formally adopted on or before June 30, 1981. In addition, the policy on
interest rates is also being rationalized (para 19). The absence of
appropriate policies on these matters has had a disturbing impact on DBP's
operations and finances.
/1 Four layers exist between the department head and project staff.



ANNEX 6
- 121 -                          Page 4
6.        Industrial Project Appraisal.  IPD I's appraisal capability has
noticeably improved; its appraisal reports are generally comprehensive and the
analytical tools used are appropriate./I DBP-s market analysis has improved
through the industry specialization of appraisal staff and better analytic
framework introduced by market specialists; its evaluation is now more project
oriented than it was previously. The coverage and depth of technical
appraisals done by DBP-s engineers are by and large adequate; when the nature
of projects and/or the scope of feasibility study is found beyond DBP's
inhouse capability, the services of outside independent consultants are used
(e.g. study of rehabilitation program for the cement industry).  Careful
review of the environmental impact of its projects is now standard practice
and compliance with the Government's antipollution regulations is a standard
condition of its financial assistance. FRR and ERR are now calculated for all
projects with DBP's involvement of over $500,000 irrespective of the source of
financing. Sensitivity tests of projects' rates of return have been intro-
duced but need to be sharpened. Assumptions underlying the project analysis,
however, tend to reflect a rather narrow perspective with which appraisal
staff approach project evaluation. This weakness largely stems from the
excessive functional specialization of IPD I's appraisal staff. Currently,
five specialists (management specialist, market analyst, economist, engineer
and financial analyst) are involved in each project appraisal. This arrange-
ment, which was introduced in 1978 when IPD I decided to cope with all aspects
of project appraisal without any support from other departments, has served
its purpose as reflected in the improved analytic framework incorporated in
the appraisal report. DBP has recognized this problem and is already taking
steps to minimize specialization with greater responsibility being given to
experienced officers having broader understanding of characteristics and
problems of specific industries.
7.        Industrial Project Supervision.  Some progress towards increasing
visits to projects and reviewing project performance during the implementation
stages has been made by IPD I. However, the overall quality of supervision
work has not improved at the pace expected at the time of appraisal of the
last Bank industrial loan to DBP due to two basic problems. First, the
compartmentalization of follow-up work by project status and the ill-defined
division of responsibilities spread supervision staff strength rather thin
with consequent difficulty in meeting work schedules. Secondly, the absence
of appropriate policies on refinancing operations resulted in misdirected
emphasis on noncash collections /2 and encouraged supervision staff to give
/1 In view of its improved appraisal capability, DBP now feels confident
enough to take up the role of a syndicate manager of large industrial
loans.
/2 IPD I's "noncash" collection (conversion of loan arrears into a new
loan and/or equity investment) in 1979 totalled nearly P 1.3 billion.



ANNEX 6
- 122 -Page
higher priority to refinancing/restructuring operations than to the necessary
normal supervision work. Appropriate understandings with Central Bank were
reached on this subject at negotiations and are recorded in the "Program of
Action" (Annex 6, Attachment 2).
Operations
8.        Overview.  DBP's financing operations in 1979 reached P 6.7 bil-
lion in loans, guarantees and equity investments, compared to P 4.1 billion
in 1977 and P 4.7 billion in 1978 (Annex 6, T-1). However, about 51% of
DBP's operations in 1979 was accounted for by refinancing operations (para.
12). DBP's lending operations, net of refinancing, slightly rose from the
level of P 2.7 billion in 1977 and 1978 to P 2.8 billion but with a
discernible decline in industrial lending (para. 9). DBP-s lending continues
to cover virtually every sector of the Philippine economy with the industrial
sector being the major beneficiary (50% of cumulative loan approvals) followed
by agriculture (24%), real estate (19%), provincial governments (3%), banking
industry (3%) and others (1%), (Annex 6, T-2). DBP-s guarantee operations,
predominantly used by the industrial sector, declined by 31% in 1979 to
P 859 million (para. 11). Equity investments, on the other hand, surged up
from P 331 million in 1978 to P 1.35 billion in 1979 as a result of
massive conversion of loan arrears into equity investments (para.10).
9.        Industrial Lending.  DBP's approvals of new industrial loans, net of
refinancing of its old loans, dropped from P 1.8 billion in 1977 to P 1.5
billion in 1978 and further to P 1.4 billion in 1979. These approvals
include loans made to clients for refinancing their debts to other lenders
which have also declined in the past three years. Thus, DBP-s lending for
creating new productive capacity and for keeping existing capacity utilized,
in fact, showed no increase over the past three years. Although DBP's lending
for small and medium industry (loans between P 50,000 and P 2,000,000)
increased both in number and amount in 1979 /1 and the share of large loans
(over P 5 million) slightly declined in 1979 (Annex 6, T-3), the overall
average size of industrial loans has increased from P 657,000 in 1977 to
P 835,000 in 1979. This is due to a steady decline in loans for tricycle
financing (on an average P 30,000 per loan) and for very small cottage
industries for which DBP uses PDBs as channel for funds. During 1977-79,
DBP-s industrial lending covered a wide spectrum of industries; the high
proportion of textiles (23% of lending in 1979), mining (21%) and public
utilities (14%) largely reflected DBP's lending to these industries for
refinancing their debts to other creditors. As a matter of policy, DBP
/1 Up from P 163 million for 473 clients in 1978 to P 220 million for 560
clients in 1979.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
-123 -
encourages investments in labor-intensive projects (both small and medium) and
priority is given to labor-intensive projects in its general lending. During
1977-79, DBP-s lending to relatively labor-intensive industries /1 represented
about 43% of its total lending to such industries since 1947.  DBPTs loans in
1977-79 continued to be directed towards Manila and the Central and Southern
Luzon regions. These two areas received 58% (in amount) of total industrial
lending in 1977-79, but in number 72% of industrial loans went to
less-developed regions.
10.       Equity Investments.  DBP acquires equity holdings through exercise
of conversion options, investments in public enterprises under the Govern-
ment-s equity financing programs, and equity investments in PDBs. DBP's
equity investment operations reached a high level oi P 1.35 billion in 1979
(or 43% of cumulative total since 1947). New investments in 1979, however,
accounted for a mere P 46 million (or 3% of the total) in 11 PDBs, 74 rural
banks and one commercial bank; other equity investments totalling P 1.3
billion represented the conversion of loan arrears on large industrial and
hotel accounts /2 into preferred or common shares. The conversions are
done under DBP's policy of providing fehabilitation assistance to its
borrowers. However, DBP seems to have exercised this policy rather too
liberally. This aspect is further discussed in para. 12.
11.       Guarantee Operations.  DBP provides guarantees to cover: (a) foreign
suppliers credits for the import of capital goods; (b) commodity credit
financing from the US and Canada; (c) peso credits extended by commercial
banks to DBP clients; and (d) performance of Filipino contractors working
abroad. DBP-s guarantee operations rose from P 1 billion in 1977 to
P 1.25 billion in 1978 but declined in 1979 to P 859 million. This fluc-
tuation reflects either the entry or absence of a few very large accounts
which affect the overall level of guarantee operations. The average size of
DBP-s guarantees sharply increased from P 18 million in 1977 to P 50
million in 1978 and further to P 100 million as a result of phase out of
commodity credit financing and the absence of domestic credit guarantee in
1979; the latter factor reflects DBP-s recent policy to offer a loan/guarantee
package rather than guarantee only.
/1 These are food processing, apparel, furniture, leather products, metal,
light machinery and cottage industries.
/2 Including such industries as paper (P 304 million converted), shipping
(P 261 million), cement (P 155 million), hotels (P 132 million),
mining (P 91 million), telecommunications (P 90 million), textile
(P 88 million) and others (P 183 million).



ANNEX 6
Page 7
- 124 -
12        Refinancing Operations.  A noticeable feature of DBP's operations
in 1977-79 was the increasing trend of refinancing operations as shown
below:
DBP   SUMMARY OF REFINANCING OPERATIONS
(P million)
1977    1978    1979
(1) Conversion of
(a) Old loans to new loans               38     397   1,735
(b) Arrearages to equity invest-
ments                           226      276   1,304
(2) Loans for refinancing clients'
debts to other lenders                  927      573     393
Total                          1,191   1,246   3,432
The bulk of refinancing operations represent DBP's efforts to rehabilitate
problem projects. So far these efforts have not been very fruitful. Many of
these projects had intractable problems, largely caused by the Government's
past industrial sector policies, over which DBP had no control. In the
absence of a package of workable remedial measures (managerial, technical,
marketing and financial), DBP's refinancing package only meant postponement of
inevitable hard decisions. Besides, since conversions of arrearages into
equity investments are treated as collections, DBP's operating units tend to
resort to refinancing rather liberally with a view to boosting their collec-
tion performance. This practice has had an undesirable impact on the serious-
ness and depth of DBP's supervision activity (para. 7). These shortcomings,
in turn, were the result of absence of a comprehensive policy on refinancing
operations. However, DBP is now formulating an appropriate policy on
refinancing which would, among others, state the conditions necessary for
making a project eligible for refinancing assistance, and require a rigorous
reappraisal of the project and a thorough investigation of various measures
needed to improve project performance.
13.       DBP's efforts to rehabilitate problem projects included an arrange-
ment called "dacion en pago" under which borrowers were allowed to surrender
all their assets to DBP in settlement of its claim and DBP in turn, in most
cases, leases these assets back to the same borrowers on concessionary terms.
Since 1977, DBP has approved this type of arrangement with 14 borrowers for



ANNEX 6
- 125-                              Page 8
its claims totalling P 1.3 billion at an effective imputed interest rate of
9-12% p.a., rental payment spreading over 20-25 years. This practice does not
serve DBP's interest as it: (a) encourages borrowers to default in the hope of
getting better terms; (b) provides an opportunity for basically unviable
projects to seek undesirable continuation of protection; and (c) gives no
flexibility to DBP to renegotiate lease contracts in case DBP finds better
options. DBP is presently reviewing the implications of this practice with a
view to adopting appropriate policies to safeguard its interest and avoid ad
hoc decisions.
14.        Impact of Large Industry Financing.  The sheer volume and the
diversity of DBP's operations make it difficult to compile comprehensive data
which would make possible quantification of DBP's contribution to economic
development. However, some conclusions can be drawn by analyzing the loans
made by IPD I during the past two years.  In 1978-79, IPD I approved 83 large
industrial projects with a total capital expenditure of P 2.7 billion, 58%
of which was DBP-financed. These projects were expected to create 18,300 new
jobs at an average cost per job of $18,700.  Twenty-two of these projects were
export-oriented with estimated total export sales of $184 million. The
ex-ante financial rate of return calculated for 76 projects, weighted by
project cost, was about 29%; the ex-ante economic rate of return for 35
projects, weighted by project cost, was about 44%.
15.       Economic Impact of Large Industrial Subprojects Under the Bank
Loans. DBP has received three IBRD loans totalling $150 million for large
industrial projects since 1974. Through these loans, which triggered a
significant expansion of DBP's industrial lending in the mid-1970's, the Bank
has had an important influence on DBP's industrial lending particularly on the
manner in which DBP has dealt with its large industrial projects. Under these
loans, 70 productive industrial projects were financed. The textile industry
accounted for 36% ($52.2 million) /1 of total Bank loans; the remaining loans
were spread among a wide range of industries.  Bank-financed projects are
expected to generate 14,824 jobs /2 at an average capital cost per job of
$29,000. The cost per job varies from $155,000 for soybean processing project
to $1,500-2,000 for garment manufacture. The higher cost/job for Bank-
financed projects compared to that for IPD I's overall operations is due to
the fact that the Bank loans have been used for financing imported capital
goods, which, in turn, are used in projects that are high technology-oriented
/1 The relatively large shares of textile industry mainly reflect a
considerable capacity expansion of the textile industry taken place in the
Philippines in 1975 and 1976. The textile projects covered almost all
segments of the textile industry including nylon filament yarn,
polyester yarn, and both woven and knitted fabrics.
/2 Plus another 7,100 seasonal jobs in a tobacco redrying project and a
cassava processing project.



ANNEX 6
-126 -                              Page 9
and more capital-intensive than those using domestic equipment.  Forty-three
of the 70 projects planned export sales of at least part of their production;
their aggregate foreign exchange earnings would be about $340 million
annually. In terms of regional distribution, 26 projects are based in
Metro-Manila, 19 in Central and Southern Luzon, 11 in Mindanao and 11 in
Visayas, Bicol and Ilocos with the remaining three projects being for overseas
shipping. The Bank-financed projects are expected to yield acceptable
economic rates of return with an average of 30% weighted by project cost.
Financial Aspects
16.       Financial Position.  Since December 31, 1977 DBP-s total assets have
grown at an average annual rate of 18.6% and reached P 23 billion as of
March 31, 1980 with little change in the asset structure (Annex 6, T-4).
DBP's capital structure remained stable with total debt (including guarantee)
to equity ratio of 5.9:1 as of March 31, 1980, well within the limit of 10:1
agreed with the Bank under the previous loan agreements. However, with the
chronically low loan recoveries DBP's liquidity remains largely dependent on
Government's deposits, most of which are contractually short-term. These
deposits (P 4.4 billion) exceeded DBP's current assets (P 3.9 billion) as
of March 31, 1980. However, under Loan No. 1572-PH, the Government agreed to
give due consideration to DBP-s liquidity position when withdrawals of its
funds are made. Also, to help DBP bolster its cash position and to correct
the imbalance between the maturity structure of its assets and liabilities,
the Government under Loan No. 1572-PH agreed to: (a) raise DBP's paid-in
capital from P 2.5 billion in 1978 to P 4 billion by 1981; (b) help DBP
raise additional long-term resources; (c) assist DBP to liquidate its
investments in three large companies; and (d) arrange for payment of arrears
on loans which were commercially not viable but were made at the Government's
behest. These agreements have been partly implemented, but with mixed results
as discussed in the following paragraphs.
17.       The Government has made no heavy withdrawals on its deposits
maintained with DBP. In fact, the deposits increased from P 3.0 billion in
1977 to P 4.4 billion in 1980. Therefore these deposits can be considered
long-term for gauging DBP's liquidity. This agreement was reconfirmed during
negotiations. As to the share capital increase, the Government has taken
necessary legal actions (i.e., amendments to DBP's Charter to raise its
authorized capital in order to accommodate the scheduled increase in paid-in
capital) and has already raised DBP's share capital to P 3.2 billion. At
negotiations the Government confirmed to make an additional contribution
of P 825 million by 1983 raising the paid-in capital to the required level
of P 4.0 billion. The Government has actively assisted DBP in lining up
additional resources totalling P 6.4 billion in 1978-79 period. DBP sold,
or agreed to sell its large investments (P 2 billion) in three companies to
other government agencies on deferred terms spread over 18-40 years, free of



ANNEX 6
Page 10
-127 -
interest. The sale arrangements clearly do not serve DBP's interest and,
therefore, DBP has decided to exert its best efforts to renegotiate these sale
arrangements so that DBP may: (a) recover its legitimate claims (accumulated
interest and dividends) it had earlier agreed to forego; (b) be fully absolved
of all its future liabilities in respect of these projects; and (c) be paid a
realistic interest on the receivables during the period of deferment of
payment.
18.       With a view to resolving the problem of arrears on loans made at the
Government behest, the Government signed in 1979 with DBP a Guarantee Fund
Agreement whereby it assured DBP to provide liquidity support in case DBP's
overall liquidity position is imperilled and paid P 100 million as a compen-
sation against social loans with balance (P 440 million) to be paid in 8
yearly installments. The Government was unable to provide full cash compensa-
tion to DBP for arrears (totalling about P 1.1 billion) on behest projects
for two reasons. First, instead of providing direct compensation, the Govern-
ment provided liquidity support to DBP by continuing to maintain its large
deposits with DBP. The Government considers this arrangement more feasible
and also consistent with its tight budgetary position. Secondly, the
Government feared that DBP, assured of automatic compensation, may not exert
all the efforts needed to recover these loans. Whereas Government's concerns
are understandable and legitmate, a clear understanding between DBP and the
Government on principles and procedures relating to the Government behest
projects is necessary. Consequently, DBP and the Government have agreed to
set up a Committee which would decide which projects should be included in
the list of Government behest projects. DBP would prepare detailed semi-
annual reports on the status, prospects and problems of each of these pro-
jects. Moreover, DBP will maintain separate financial accounts for Government
behest projects and for each fiscal year will submit to the Government through
the proposed Committee, its financial statements showing separately financial
results of Government behest projects and its regular operations. If losses
are incurred by DBP as a result of implementing these projects thereby impair-
ing the financial viability and liquidity position of DBP, the Government, at
the recommendation of the proposed Committee, would provide financial assist-
ance to DBP.
19.       Financial Performance.  DBP-s net income rose from P 133 million
(4.1% return on equity) in 1978 to P 178 million (5.0% return on equity) in
1979 (Annex 6, T-5). DBP's profitability is to a large extent a function of
its loan collection performance because DBP, in accordance with its modified
cash basis accounting policy,/l is expected to report interest income on a
/1 This policy is followed by all Government institutions in the Philippines.



ANNEX 6
- 128 -                           Page 11
cash basis and interest expenses on an accrual basis./l The continued low
level of profitability, therefore, reflects mainly poor collection perfor-
mance. However, in judging DBP's financial performance, it is essential to
recognize that DBP is a Government-owned development-oriented institution and
that its profitability is not strictly comparable to private profit-oriented
institutions. Nonetheless, in order to reduce its excessive reliance on
Government funds and ensure its own financial viability, DBP should maximize
its earnings within the constraints of its developmental objectives. This
would require: (a) drastic measures to improve its collection performance
(para. 20); (b) a satisfactory resolution of the issue of Government behest
projects (para. 18); and (c) a review and revision of its peso lending rates.
DBP's current lending rates /2 for large industrial lending range between
16-18% p.a. depending on the type of collateral but irrespective of currencies
in which loans are denominated. DBP's foreign currency lending rates seem to
be on the higher side considering the fact that the foreign exchange risk is
passed on to the subborrowers. However, peso lending rates are not suffi-
ciently high to cover: (a) the cost of its marginal borrowing (currently
around 15-17% p.a.); (b) its overhead cost; (c) loss provision; and (d) a
reasonable return on equity. Moreover, DBP's peso lending rates have been
lower than the going market rates. This feature has impeded the active
participation of private financial institutions in long-term lending as they
have not been able to compete with DBP. DBP has started a review of its
lending rates based on the principle that its lending rates should, in
general, be competitive with the market rate and also consistent with the
Government's interest rate policy which emphasizes development of long-term
lending market. This review will be completed and rates adjusted before
December 31, 1981.
20.       Portfolio Quality.  DBP's loan portfolio totalling P 12.8 billion
at end 1979 remained reasonably well diversified among various sectors.
However, DBP's portfolio, on account of its broad sectoral coverage, remains
highly vulnerable to cyclical changes in business and economic conditions
particularly because the industrial sector has yet to overcome its structural
weaknesses. This vulnerability coupled with weaknesses in DBP-s appraisal
standards in the past and continuing weaknesses in its loan supervision
activities have resulted in unsatisfactorily high arrearages and extremely low
/1 However, DBP's interest income totalling P 1.17 billion reported for
1979 included P 607 million of "noncash collections". Had collection
of this nature been excluded from DBP's interest income, its net income
would have been negative. However, had DBP reported its interest income
on an accrual basis, accrued interest and fees totaling P 527 million
would have substantially offset negative impact of "non-cash collection"
on DBP's net income.
/2  DWPs standard interest rates on small loans range from 12% p.a.  (for
loans below P 150,000) to 16% p.a. (for loans above P 150,000 to
P 3 million). Loans under the Government's social development program,
however, carry interest of 9% p.a.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
- 129 -
collections on DBP's loan portfolio /1 (Annex 6, T-6). In the past three
years, DBP has taken a number of steps to overcome its chronic arrears
problems. First, in order to help major industries overcome structural
weaknesses, DBP has identified the need for the formulation of appropriate
rationalization programs for two major industries (i.e., cement and textiles)
with active support from the Government and the Bank. Second, with a view to
rehabilitating projects with debt servicing problems, DBP has provided in
1978-79, massive rehabilitation assistance to its defaulting clients in the
form of refinancing and restructuring (paras. 12 and 13). Third, DBP has
tried, although not with complete success yet, to resolve the problem of
arrears on Government behest projects (para. 18). Fourth, DBP has intensified
the collection drive started in 1977. Finally, DBP set up in 1980, a new
department exclusively for the intensive supervision of its large problem
accounts. Most of these efforts were steps in the right direction but
obviously were not very effective. Therefore, DBP has agreed to adopt the
following additional measures to control the problem more effectively over the
long-term: (a) a comprehensive review of its portfolio of relatively large
projects where DBP's total exposure is $5 million or more and which have a
history of problems in the past two years, in order to determine the intrinsic
strength of its portfolio, and the magnitude and nature of assistance needed
by the projects in trouble. This review would be conducted by independent
consultants appointed in consultation with the Bank. On the basis of these
reviews, critical decision would be taken on these projects by DBP/Government;
(b) preparation and adoption of reaslistic cash collection targets for each
operating unit; (c) rigorous periodic monitoring of the cash collection
performance of each unit; (d) upgrading of quality of appraisal; (e) timely
legal action against willful defaulters; and (f) intensive supervision of
projects.
21.       DBP's long-term guarantee portfolio, which stood at P 3.2 billion
as of March 31, 1980, is characterized by heavy concentration in a few large
accounts. Five large accounts represented 60% of total guarantees. Arrears
relating to guarantees increased from 8% of total outstanding guarantees in
1977 to 20% as of March 31, 1980 despite the massive conversion of advances
under guarantees into loans or equity investments that have taken place in the
last two years. This development reflected the sizeable increase in
repayments on suppliers credits falling due in 1978 through 1980. In order
to arrest the increasing trend of arrears on guarantees, DBP has upgraded the
standard of its appraisal of guarantee requests through implementation of its
policy to offer a loan/guarantee package rather than a separate guarantee; but
the delinquency picture on guarantees is unlikely to change in the near future
as most of the guarantees in default had been approved before DBP decided to
/1 Arrearages rose from P 935 million (10.5% of total portfolio) as of
June 30, 1977 to P 1.5 billion (11.4%) as of December 31, 1979 and the
loan collection ratio deteriorated from 57% of total collectibles in
1977 to 33% in 1979.



ANNEX 6
-130 -                           Page 13
adopt higher standards of appraisal. Reflecting the extensive conversion of
arrears on loans and guarantees into equity investments in 1978-79, DBP's
equity portfolio grew from P 939 million at the end of 1977 to P 2.36
billion as of March 31, 1980.  The realizable value of DBP-s equity portfolio
fell short by about P 424 million of the carrying value in DBP's book as the
result of conversion of arrearages (mostly interest in arrears) on unhealthy
accounts into equity investment./l DBP's acquired assets portfolio increased
from P 1.5 billion at the end of 1977 to P 1.7 billion as of March 31,
1980; possible losses on this portfolio seem to have been adequately provided
for.
22.       Reserves Policy and Position.  Provisions for doubtful accounts and
reserves for contingency, accumulated by DBP in accordance with its Statement
of Reserves Policy, stood at P 540 million (or 2.5% of total long-term
portfolio including guarantees) as of March 31, 1980; these provisions and
reserves, however, do not reflect doubts about the actual value of DBP's
equity investments as discussed in the preceeding paragraph and therefore are
not adequate. DBP and its auditors would undertake a thorough review of
DBP's portfolio (equity portfolio in particular) and in light of this review
DBP would set up appropriate reserves; an understanding to this effect was
reached at negotiations. DBP's reserves policy also requires DBP to appro-
priate 20% of its annual net income as the foreign exchange risk reserve; such
reserve stood at P 111 million or 15% of DBP's net exchange risk exposure /2
(the same percentage as required under its policy) as of March 31, 1980.
Audit
23.       DBP's accounts are audited by the Commission on Audit (COA), a
Government body. COA auditors have prepared long-form audit reports in line
with the Bank's "Illustrative Form of Audit for DFCs" since 1976. They have
achieved certain progress in upgrading the quality of their reports along the
lines suggested by a Bank-appointed audit expert in 1975. They now disclose
the effects of certain important deviations from generally accepted accouting
principles such as the modified cash basis accounting in their reports and
have gradually expanded coverage of portfolio review. However, there are
certain areas where further improvements can be made. COA auditors have
agreed to incorporate such improvements in their audit of DBP's 1980 accounts.
/1  However, as discussed in para. 19, the impact of this estimated over-
valuation on DBP's net worth would have been substantially offset by
additional interest income, had DBP adopted accrual basis accounting.
/2  The level of DBP's foreign exchange risk exposure declined from US$267
million as of December 31, 1977 to US$179 million as of March 31, 1980.
Of this $179 million, agreements have been finalized with respect to
$105 million for transferring exchange risk to its clients as disburse-
ments are made. Given this agreed transfer of risk, DBP's net exchange
risk exposure stood at US$74 million as of March 31, 1980.



ANNEX 6
- 131 -                           Page 14
Projected Operations and Finance
24.       Projected Operations and Resource Requirements.  DBP's projected
level of loan commitments over the next four years (1980-83) amounts to P
16.6 billion (about F 4 billion a year)/l with financing of capital aoods
imports representing P 5.9 billion (about $787 million) (Annex 6, T-7).  The
planned level of operations is markedly higher than the levels of previous
four years mainly because of the inclusion of DBP's special lending programs
(for rehabilitation of cement and textile industries, P 700 million /2; and
the expansion of gold mines, P 500 million /3) and the projected across-the-
board increases (15-20X p.a.) in lending to various sectors largely to reflect
the impact of inflation. While the state of DBP-s project pipeline supports
its expanded lending program, the availability of rcsources is likely to be a
constraint to realization of the program. Recognizing this possible
constraint, DBP is seriously considering syndicate operations for large
industrial loans. At the beginning of 1980, DBP had foreign currency
resources available for further commitments totalling $46 million (Annex 6,
T-8). In addition, $150 million /4 are being lined up to become available in
1981, a 10-year bond issue of Y 10 billion (about $42 million) on the Tokyo
capital market in 1981 is being arranged, an ADB's financing package of $60
million (including $30 million representing a cofinancing portion) is being
considered both by DBP and ADB, and about $100 million specifically for the
rehabilitation of cement and textile industries is being sought from the
Government. The balance (about $300 million) of DBP's foreign currency
resource requirements up to middle of 1983 is expected to be met from ADFU
funds and through additional borrowings from the Central Bank under the
Consolidated Foreign Borrowing Program /5.
/1 In the first nine months of 1980, DBP-s loan approvals (net of refinanc-
ing) reached P 3 billion to 11,678 clients including foreign currency
loans totalling US$207 million to 60 client companies.
/2 Tentative figure for planning purposes used by DBP. Actual requirements
may become higher.
/3 During the first nine months of 1980, DBP approved two loans totalling
p 523 million for the expansion of existing gold mines.
/4 Government's foreign currency deposit of $45 million to be placed with
DBP in the fourth quarter of 1980 for 8 years at 9% p.a., and borrowings
from U. S. Eximbank ($75 million) and from Japan Eximbank ($30 million).
/5 In 1980, DBP drew down $121 million under this program.



ANNEX 6
- 132 -                         Page 15
25.       DBP's peso requirements for its local currency loan disbursements
total P 10.8 billion over the next four years, part of which would be met by_
unused balances of Bank loans (P 420 million) for small and medium indus-
tries and agricultural projects, an ADB loan for fishery projects (P 64
million) and Central Bank fund for new hotel financing (P 160 million). DBP
expects its share capital to be raised at least by P 974 million and plans
to issue countryside bills totalling P 963 million in 1980-83. The balance
of its local currency requirements (P 8.2 billion) is expected to be met
from internally generated funds (P 1.4 million), net loan collections
(P 2.3 billion), advances from the Central Bank (P 1.0 million), addi-
tional deposits (P 2 billion) placed by the Government and by SSS and other
sources (P 700 million). In addition to funds required for its lending, DBP
expects to require P 1.6 billion in 1980-83 to meet advances on guarantees;
this requirement will be met largely by borrowings from the Central Bank under
the Consolidated Foreign Borrowing Program.
26.       Projected Financial Position and Performance.  Based on the above
operational and funding programs, DBP's total assets are projected to grow at
an average annual rate of 13% to P 40.1 billion at the end of 1984 (Annex 6,
T-9). A large part of the asset growth will be financed by debt; as a result,
the total debt/equity ratio is expected to rise from 5.9:1 as of March 31,
1980 to 6.5:1 in 1984. Therefore, DBP does not need any relaxation in its
present debt/equity limit of 10:1. DBP-s liquidity position is expected to
remain tight with current ratio being below unity throughout the projection
period despite projected improvements in collection rates which are by no
means certain./l However, the basic assumption underlying DBP-s financial
projections is that the Government would continue to provide liquidity support
to DBP; this was confirmed by the Government at negotiations. Providing
assumptions about collection rates are borne out by experience, DBP-s net
income is expected to rise gradually from P 178 million in 1979 to P 417
million (Annex 6, T-10); as a percentage of average total assets, however, net
income would remain at a stable level of around 1.2%. If expected levels of
collections are achieved, DBP's debt service cover would be above 1.2
throughout the projection period (Annex 6, T-11).
/1 Actual cash collection of principal installments amounted to P 793
million in 1979; the projected levels of collections (P 1.2 billion
in 1980, P 1.4 billion in 1981 and P 1.7 billion in 1982, and
P 2.0 billion in 1983) are, therefore, ambitious.
AEPID
February 3, 1981



- 133 -                       ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 1
PHIILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for Medium-
and Large-Scale Industrial Financing /1
1.        The policies, criteria and procedures set forth below will guide
DBPs medium- and large-scale industrial operations - particularly those
undertaken by Industrial Projects Department I and irrespective of the sources
of funds for financing these operations.
2.        Objectives of Industrial Financing.  To assist the development of
the country by providing financial and technical assistance for the estab-
lishment of new industries as well as for the balancing, modernization and
expansion of existing industries.
3.        Basis for Investment Decisions.  DBP will make investment decisions
on the basis of sound investment criteria and standards, and after careful
project evaluation. Financial assistance will be provided to those projects
which are financially and economically viable and technically feasible, and
for the implementation of which satisfactory organizational and managerial
arrangements have been made.
4.        Method of Financing.  DBP will provide finance according to the
requirements of each project, in one or several of the following forms:
(a) direct loans in local currency, for financing local expenditures
on fixed assets and where appropriate for working capital;
(b) direct loans in foreign currencies, for financing imports of
equipment and/or new materials;
(c) guarantees of domestic currency and/or foreign currency credits
made on suitable terms;
(d)  loans fully or partly convertible into stock;
(e) in exceptional and highly meritorious cases, direct equity
investments and underwriting of share issues.
/1 Approved by the Board of Governors on May 29, 1974, under Resolution
No. 1571-A.



ANNEX 6
134 -                       Attachment 1
Page 2
General Investment Policies
(a) Financing will be provided to projects which are in line with
the investment priorities of the Government; preference being
given to projects registered with the Board of Investments (BOI)
under the Invest-ment Incentives Act or the Export Incentives
Act, or with other pertinent Government regulatory agencies.
(b) In accordance with normal banking practice, adequate security
will be required to cover the loans and guarantees, but the
main considerations will be the merits of proposed projects,
their repayment prospects and the soundness of management
of the enterprise.
(c) DBP will not seek a controlling interest in any enterprise in
which it has invested, or any other interest which would give
it responsibility for management, except when in its judgment
its investment is in jeopardy, in which case DBP reserves the
option of taking such action as may be necessary to protect its
interests.
6.        Project Appraisal Guidelines
(a) Each investment decision will be made on the basis of a thorough
project evaluation, reflected in an appraisal report, which will be
a self-contained and comprehensive document outlining facts,
analyses and judgments on the essential aspects (including tech-
nical, marketing, management, financial and economic) of the project
as well as recommendations on special contractual arrangements. In
appropriate instances, the report will incorporate essential comple-
mentary elements of the BOI s appraisal work, in particular its
economic evaluation and marketing analysis. These inclusions
notwithstanding, DBP-s appraisal reports will in any event include
DBP's own judgments on these matters as well.
(b) Project appraisal will generally include the calculation of the
internal, financial and economic rates of return for projects
of which the total project cost exceeds US$2 million equivalent.
If the economic rate of return is below 10%, special justification
will be required in the appraisal report which recommends a
decision to finance the project.
(c)  Each appraisal report will provide in detail the estimated cost
of the project, including working capital requirements and
adequate contingencies. Prior to committing its own funds DBP
will satisfy itself that funds expected from sources other than
DBP (i.e., borrower's own contribution, plus borrowings from



ANNEX 6
Attachment I
- 135-                            Page 3
other lending institutions) will be available in sufficient
amounts when needed to cover the total financing requirements
of the project.
7.        Lending Terms
(a) Each industrial loan will be made on a term and with a grace
period consistent with the repayment capacity of the enterprise
based on projected cash flows, and related to the useful life
of the assets financed by the loan.
(b) Each investment project financed by DBP will normally have
an equity capital equivalent to 25% of total project cost. In the
case of an expansion project of an existing enterprise, funds
generated internationally are considered as equity for this
purpose.
(c) DBP will take steps adequate to protect itself against the
foreign exchange risk on its lending operations and guarantees.
8.        Project Supervision Guidelines.  It is the policy of DBP to:
(a) undertake systematic follow-up on the progress and operation of the
projects financed by it, in order to establish whether the actual develop-
ment correspond with the expectations and projections on the basis of which
the investment decision was made, and to keep DBP's management currently
informed of the project status so that it may take timely and appropriate
action. Accordingly, DBP requires its borrowers to submit regular period-
ical reports on the physical and financial progress of the project, and on
its operational and financial performance. Furthermore, projects are
visited at appropriate intervals to confirm the state of progress, to check
on the efficiency, organization and management of the project, and to discuss
problems of mutual concern with the borrower's management; and (b) maintain
close scrutiny of its accounts in arrears. Each individual account in
arrears is analyzed in detail at least once annually in order to identify
the causes for arrears and to determine the repayment capacity of the
enterprise. On the basis of this analysis, DBP's management takes appropriate
measures (including legal action), for collection, rescheduling, or
restructuring of the account.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



ANNEX 6
- 136 -                         ATTACHaENT 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Program of Action for Improvements
1.        Outlined below are certain programs that the management of DBP has
initiated and will carry out in respect of its operations. Most of these
programs are the results of DBP's annual review of its past operations and
have been adopted after extensive discussions among members of the DBP Board
and the executive staff; others, specifically those relating to policy
considerations, are responses to national economic strategy and monetary
policy changes.
Review of Portfolio
2.        DBP has initiated a program that will review comprehensively DBP's
portfolio of relatively large projects (with total exposure of US$5 million
or more and having a history of problems in the past 2 years) to determine
the intrinsic strength of the portfolio and the magnitude and nature of
assistance needed by the projects in trouble and to draw lessons from past
experience. DBP has in fact secured a $1 million fund for technical
assistance from the structural adjustment loan which it has earmarked to
finance consulting services where required. DBP assigns high priority to
this portfolio review and hopes to complete by September 30, 1981 the initial
phase of the program including identification of the projects and establish-
ment of the timetable. DBP will pursue this program in close coordination
with ADFU and will keep it informed of further developments.
Collection Efforts
3.        DBP is presently reviewing its collection program and will
intensify its collection efforts thru means which will include (a)
preparation of realistic collection targets that will focus on cash
collections rather than on a combination of cash and noncash collections;
(b) close monitoring of such cash collections; and (c) more effective project
supervision including board and management participation, to improve
collection rates. DBP has already initiated closer monitoring and tightened
its reporting procedures on collections. A Collection Committee with DBP
Chairman as its Chairman and all operating departments as its members meet
every week to monitor the progress of collections.  Collection targets for
1981 have been set but will be modified to reflect the emphasis on cash
collections.



- 137 -                        ANI<-X 6
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 2
Sale of Three Large Investments
4.        In line with DBP's program of divesting itself of its substantial
investments in projects that are presently non-earning, DBP concluded the
sale of its investments in three large projects, namely, Food Terminal, Inc.
National Housing Corporation and National Steel Corporation.  The terms of
the sale of DBP investments in these projects were so designed in order
to enable DBP to recoup its principal investments over a period of time.
DBP realizes the income being foregone on the investment over the collection
period agreed upon but considers the transfer of the responsibility for
these projects (and the consequent further financial claims upon DBP) to be
the more significant consideration. Nonetheless, assuming that any or all of
these considerations can be achieved, DBP will attempt, on a best efforts
basis, to renegotiate the agreements or arrangements for the sale of
investments (equity, advances and acquired assets) in Food Terminal
Incorporated, National Housing Corporation, National Steel Corporation
including properties of the former Iligan Integrated Steel Mills so that DBP
may (a) shorten the period of repayment; (b) recover its claims (accumulated
interest and dividends) it had earlier agreed to forego; (c) be fully
absolved or compensated for all future liabilities in respect of these
projects; and (d) be paid a realistic interest on the receivables during the
period that the repayment is deferred. DBP will make provision for losses on
these accounts to the extent of defaults on them.
Review of Lending Rates
5.        In view of the recent changes adopted by the Monetary Board of the
Central Bank relative to interest rates which are to take effect in July
1981. DBP is now in the process of reviewing its own interest rate policies.
The new policies that are being considered by DBP will conform to the basic
principles that DBP's lending rates shall be generally:  (a) competitive with
market interest rates; and (b) consistent with government-s interest rate
policy. DBP will monitor the effects of the new Central Bank policies on
existing deposit and lending rates, will review and if found necessary will
adopt specific interest rate changes by December 31, 1981.
Policies on Refinancing
6.        DBP recognizes that there is a need to formulate and adopt policies
governing its operations on refinancing, conversion of arrearages into equity
investments and "dacion en pago . It has in fact rationalized these
operations by ensuring that only deserving projects are provided assistance
by undertaking a thorough reappraisal of project viability before refinancing,
conversion or dacion en pago is resorted to. DBP is presently reviewing its
policies and expects to adopt new ones by June 30, 1981.



-138-                            ANNEX 6
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 3
Organization of IPD I
7.        DBP believes that IPD I's organization can be made more responsive
by modifying its basic structure and staffing pattern.  Present thinking
envisions an organization that will be basically grouped according to
industry specialization, such groups (three) to be functionally integrated to
handle both project appraisal and project supervision. The Accounts
Servicing Group is expected to remain and will perform administrative and
bookkeeping functions. This will be finalized on or before June 30, 1981.
Provisions
8.        DBP and its auditors will undertake a thorough review of DBP's
portfolio (equity portfolio in particular) with a view to making appropriate
provisions for portfolio losses in the 1981 accounts.
Government Behest Projects
9.        Projects initiated at the instance of Government are defined as
those which the Governmelnt considers to be of national importance and for
which DBP is requested to finance even though such projects do not meet DBP-s
normal investment criteria. To ensure timely identification of such projects
and their subsequent satisfactory handling, the Government and DBP will set
up a high-level Committee which would determine on a case-to-case basis
whether a given project falls into that category. Decision by the Committee
will be taken on the basis of detailed evaluation reports on the projects
prepared and submitted to the Committee by DBP. DBP would prepare comprehen-
sive semi-annual progress reports on Government initiated projects (already
approved and those that may be approved in the future excluding those covered
by category "B" of the Guarantee Fund Agreement). These progress reports
will bring out the status and prospects of each project and the account
status. Moreover, DBP will maintain separate financial accounts (balance
sheet, cash-flow and profit and loss statements) for Government initiated
projects in accordance with its normal accounting policies and standards,
and for each fiscal year will submit to the Government through the Committee,
its financial statements showing separately financial results of Government
initiated projects and its regular operations. If losses are incurred by DBP
as a result of implementing these projects thereby impairing the financial
viability and liquidity position of DBP, the Government at the recommendation
of the Committee provide financial assistance to DBP.
AEPID
March 31, 1981



- 139 -                                                                        ANNEX 6
Trb'e 3
PP.ILIPPINES
INDTUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Develop=ent Bank of the Philippines
Surmary of Operations, January 1, 1947 to March 31, 1980
(Amouots in million pesos)
Jol-Dec 31,                                                                               Cumulative total/b
FY 1976             1976             CY 1977            CY 1978            CY 1979        Jan-Mar 1980   1947-Mar 31, 1990
No.     Amount   No.       Amount   No.       Amount   No.       Amount   No.      Amount   No.    Amount    No.         Amount
App-oals
Loans
New loans /a                         75,983  2,477.2  15,119    773.1  31,384  2,765.7  24,243  2,687.0  22,737  2,821.8  2,733    584.6  500,572  19,640.8
Refinanced accounts                        -      -          1       5.0        1      37.5       15    397.0       23  1,735.9       1Q    104.5         59   2,279.8
Subtotal                            75,983  2,477.2  15,120    778.1  31,385  2,803.2  24,258  3,084.0  22,760  4,557.7  2,752    689.1  500,631   i1,920.6
Equity Investments
Preferred shares                          2      40.0        1      68.2        2    167.0         8    126.6       19    762.9        2      11.0        74   1,634.9
Conmon shares                             4       9.3        1       2.7        1      59.4        5    204.8       14    554.1        -       -          34   1,374.3
Subtotal                                 6      49.3        2      70.9        3    226.4        13    331.4       33  1,317.0        2      11.0       108   3,009.2
Other In-est rents                           1     35.0        -       -          1      59.4        1      28.0        -       -         -      -           3      102.4
Guarantees
Domestfi  currency (mon pesos)            2      14.5        -       -         10      97.3        4    100.2        -       -         1       6.8        46      267.1
Foreign exchange (US$ million)           33    180.3         5      38.6       48    126.6        21    155.5        8    115.8        3      16.1       371   2,489.5
Subtotal (sin pesos equio.)/c           35  1,354.2         5    286.4        58  1,030.3       25  1,246.9         8    858.8        4    126.3        417  18,726.9
Total Approvals                     76,025  3,915.7  15,127  1,135.4  31,447  4,119.3  24,297  4,690.3  22,801  6,733.5  2,758    826.4  501,159  43,759.1
Disbursenents
Loans                                           2,768.9            1,246.8           2,317.3            2,807.8            3,385.2             856.2
Equity investment                                 120.3               26.0              155.5              552.8             916.7             307.8
Total                                        2 889.1           1,272.8            2,472.8            3,360.6            4,301.9           _ 164.0
Guarantees Issued
Domestic currency (mln pesos)                2     14.5        -       -          7      54.6        3      26.5        1      1.6       1       6.6        46      266.9
Foreign exchange (US$ million)              34    160.2        4       8.1       45    119.6        16     38.2         6    i86.1       -       -         368   2,371.5
Total (.In pesos equiv.)/c              36  1,205.0         4      60.3       52    936.0        19    308.4        7  1,381.2        1       6.6       414  17,708.9
Advances on guarantees                            322.3              150.6              395.2              639.2             603.3             191.1              4,888.2
la Inclodms subscriptions to private development banks and rural banks.
/b Cumulative totals ore shown net of cancellations whereas yearly figures are
/c  Exchange rate applied:  US$1.00 = P 7.431 for FY 1976                             not.
P 7.429 for Jul-Dec 1976                      S1.00 = P 7.375 for CY 1978
P 7.370 for CY 1977                                    P 7.415 for CY 1979
P 7.428 for  oar 31, 1980.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAI FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Characteristics of Loans Approved (Net of Refinancinp),
January 1, 1947 to March 31, 1980
(Amounts in million pesos)
Cumulative total
Jul-Dec 1976                 CY 1977                     CY 1978                    CY 1079                Jan-Mar 19P0          1947 - liar 31, 1qRQ
No.    Amnount   %       No.      Amount    3       No.      Amount .          No.      Amount A           No.   Amount   Y         No.       Amounnt N
Type of Loan
Industrial                             2,410  266.1   34.4   2, 755  1,810.4   65.4   1,921  1,510.7   56.1   1,626  1,356.6    4p.0    375  290.1   5n.n   36,077   9,777.6   50.0
Agricultural                           10,684  238.7   30.9  24,887    536.1   19.3  17,431    508.5   19.0  12 876               701.4   24.1  2, 0                      3n ,4]n   4,789.2   24.3
Real estate                             1,936  219.4   28.3   3,071        268.9    9.8   3,981    493.6   18.3   6'916    499.2   17.6    218    82.2   14.0   77,76Ai    3 7e14   24.Q
Government projects /a                      9   21.6      2.8       29      79.6    2.9         13     72.1      2.6       17    130.2      4.6        8   35.1     5.7        706      606.1      3.1
Private develoPment banks /b               59   24.2    3.2        480       1.7    0.1       123      88.2    3.1        164     115.5    4.1       46   4].4      6.9     1,436       568.2      2.R
Rural banks /c                             21    3.1    0.4        124      62.6    2.3        55      11.6    0.4         74      15.0    1.0       12      3.3    0.3    1,77P        16I(0.5    0.8
Educational assistance loans                -    -        -         38       6.4    0.2       719        2.3    0.5   1,064         3.Q     0.1      46     0.,0    0.1    2,309          R.P    '3.1
Total                              15,119  773.1  100.0  31,384  2,765.7  100.0  24,243  2,687.0  100.0   9737  2,871.R  In.0    7 l1  584.6  1nO.0  10,572  10,640.8  100.n
Size Distribution (in pesos)
Below 50,000                          14,353  144.9   18.7  29,105    371.2   13.4  22,133            292.5   10.9  19,096        295.2   10.5  2,05P    30.2       5.7  470,067   5,374.4    17.2
50,001 -   100,000                    201   17.0    2.2        939       76.0    2.8       828      63.1    2.4   2,082       162.1      5.7    217   16.7       2.R     9,813       8nn.8     4.9
100,001 -   200,000                    225   33.8    4.4        754      107.0    3.6       700      95.1     3.5      786     114.4    4.1       203   27.9    4.R         203        77.0    0.1
200,001 -   500,000                     172   56.2    7.3       301       98.5     3.6      237      78.0    2.9       354     110.7      4.3      78   27.0      4.6         78       27.0    0.1
500,001 - 1,000,000                      68   49.0    6.3        115      87.9     3.2      137      98.2    3.7       202     142.3    5.0        84   60.7   10.4    10,947  14,7R9.8    71.P
1,000,001 - 2,000,000                      31   46.1      5.9       59      86.4    3.2        69    103.2      3.8        99     144.7     5.1      45   67.8    11.6          45       67.8    n.6
2,000,001 - 5,000,000                      46  146.5   18.9         60    167.3    6.1         79    217.3    P.1          64     192.7     6.8      35   83.3   14.3           35       83.3     0.4
Above 5,000,000                            23  279.6   36.3         51  1,771.4   64.1         60  1,739.6   64.7          54  1,651.2   5R,5        13  771.5   46.3           13      771.5      1.3
Unclassified                               -_         -        -         -       -         -            -       -           -       -       -         -    -        -       9,371       6q8.3    3.6
Total                              15,119  773.1  100.0  31,384  2,765.7  100.0  24,743  2,687.0  100.0  22,717  2,821.8  100.0  2,733  584.6  100.n  500,572  19,640.8  _nn.0
Geographical Distribution
Metro Manils                              234  200,4   25.9        451     719..6   26.0      688    756.6   28.2   1,740         679.8   24.1      169  107.3   33.8   35,217    6,440.g   57.8
Ilocos and Mountain Province              355   49.8      6.4   1,107      307.8   11.1       492    130.2    4.9        853    307.0   10.9        124   89.2   15.3   76,69    1,406.5         7. 2
Cagayan Valley and Batanes                992   21.0    2.7   4,219        112.0    4.1    1,391       33,n    1.2   1,716         80.8     7 .9    1R8    14.7     2.5   39,987        632.7      1.2
Central LtnOn                          2,721  132.1   17.1   4,666    398.2   14.4   1,397    248.7    9.3   1,165                 81.8    2.9    143   56.1       9.6   63,016   1,827,8        9.3
Southern Luzon                         1,540   62.9       8.1   2,250    109.7       6.1   2,036    377.3   1.2.0   1,746    877.7   31.1           176   56.9    9.7   47,642   2,416f.4   I7>
Bicol and Mashate                         472   14.8      1.9      80'      46.7     1.7      956      94.9    3.5   1,090        120.3     4.3      77   13.1      7.2   37,233        636.0     57
Western Visayas                         1,626   87.6   11.3   3,625        150.6     5.5   2,843    22f6.3    8.4   2,470         183.6     6.5     190   31.1      5,3   60,h72    1,394.6        7.1
Eastern Visayas                        1,233   57.4    7.5   4,208         1()0.9    3.7   2,843    292.8   10.9   3,255          177.7     6.3    250   37.4       6.4   50,000    1 ,251.       6 .4
Northern Mindanao                         724   56.6    7.3   2,970    497.5   18.0   4,737           177.7    6.6   3,072        116.1    4.1      758   40.0      6. R    0,277     2 4I5.2    17.4
Southern Mindanao                      5,222   90.5   11,8   7,084         262.7     9.4   6,860      399.5   14.1   5,630       196.     6.9       65R   4P.9    8.4   55,80q         19,04,     6.1
Total                              15,119  773.1   100.0  31,384  _,765.7  100.0  24,243  2,687.0  lon.0  22,737  2,871.R  100.0  2,733  5R4.6  100n.11  50,575  1,6i40.8 R100.
/a  Including real estate financing.
/b  SubscriPtiOns to capital stock, rediscounts and time deposits to private development banks.
7J  Subscriptions to capital stock and loans to rural banks, which operations are carried out by DBP on behalf of tthe Central Rank and are ShOWTn on this table as a -atter nf
record only-
AEPID
January 28, 1981



CCCCCCCNCC       CCC CCC C  NCCCCC  C  Cr-  C   C C
CC.CCCCC C CCN..4 CCC CCN-OCCN )CII)C C
0101              .Cj                           -  *-0  C       .-,  -  C        C     C
7C    NCCCCCCCCC CCCCC CCCCCC CCC C  CCCC .CCCCC C           C   C
CCCr-CNCNCCCCC  CC CN   NCCCr-C.CCNCCI  CC   C   N NI
CC  CCCCCCCCCCCr-CCCC CCCCCNCCCCNICN  C
CI              C  CI IN pill
CCC C  CNNCr-C       .-j CC   C
Clii IC CCr-ICCICICCN OCr-NCr- C CCNCNNCCN CI CC IC) II C
CI CCIr-CNNCCCICCNCr-C  CCC   CCCCCCCCCN  g  CNCNCCN I
C  -"           NI
-            NCr-NCr-Cr-C     CIICIIII
II .-1r-CIC  INI  'CI  .-'''1C--C'4   N  C)CCClC))l*I)I.4  I   C
C[C           CCCCCCN CNNCCC  CCC CI C.CN.CCr- CCCN C  NNCNr-CC C  C
CICCICCNCCCCCI 4Cr-CC C4C Ci CNCNCCCCCNC CC CCNCCNI C
C    CI CNCC-CNC-CCC           C C C  C
CI              C[    N
C      N            -a
C             CCCCNN C N C N CNCCC C
ICICCCCCCCCNICCC CNN NC C C CCC CCCCCCC C CCNCCCCCIC I
01                              -    N   N  C   C  - -     -   C             Nj   
CC    C  C CNCC Cr-CNN CCCCCC                                          I
CC   Cl ICIC NCr-NC CCNICC CNNC CCC C  r-NC CCCNCCC C  CCCCNCNC I C I
C 2]
Cl ICICC.CCCCNCC ICCCCCN CCN  J C CNCNNCCCr- C NCC)C 
II  -                                     C      N            C     C
C  C N             C    CC C CNN  CNN CC CNCjCCCCCCNCC
C C  C C        I    C Cr-CC CCCCCNNC Cr-CCCC CCC C  CCCCCCCCCC  C  CCCCNCCC   C
C  C   C  C   C    I
C                  p)  CI CNCCCCC C CCCN INC CCCC CCC C  CCCCCCCNCN  C  CCCCCCCC, I C  CC
C                  I                             C N   C  CNN        N  C            C  C
C  C  C  C      I                                                      I              I
CCC C  .CCNCCCCCN Ci CCCCCNCCI  C I
CI CCNCCCCCCCNCICCCCCN Cr-CC NCCCCCr-CCCC NCr-Cr-Cr-Cl
C  C C  CJ CC CNCNCCN      -CCC
CICCINCCCICCICCCr-CCCCN        C                I
CC           CCNCCC   CCCCN CNN         01 01
04 'CCC
CjN                COCO)
NN                CC
01        C  'C                                       010101
-C   CCC   C  C0CC1)   01     >01            C                 0101
CCC 01 CCC  C   014001  'C  01 CC                           .01*r-
N     CC CCC        0101) C  C   C CC            C                CCC
C    CCCC'CC   C C I01N-C'C    C  C               CCCCCC         CCC.
C CCC  CCC.CC CCC CCCC C CC  C CC                  C.CC
CCCC CCCCC CCC CCC CCC CC C CC 0) CC C.- C C CCCC C C
CCCCCC CC'CC)-CC01CCCCCC  0101 CC    C C   001010101    C NNr-CCCC  CCC
CC OCOCCO  CC01CCCCCII01'CCCC    C Cr- CCCCCC    C        -. *C     CCC  N
CCCCCC.C CCC CCNC CCCCCCCCCICC    C C 0ICCCCCCC   C)   CNNC         CCC  C
COC'CCCC  CCCC  CCCC C .4.4CC. CC    C C CCC 010101001    C   *C    CCC  C
CCCCCC  CC   CCC CC CCCCCC C   C C CC.-) CC 0110)   C        CC    010101
CC  CC CCCC . CCCCCNCCCCCC01    C CCC CCC           C.CNNNNCCC.    CCC
CCCC   C 1000CC 0.NCCCCCCCCC  C C C C  CC  CC CI C CCCCCC CC C   'CC  C
CCCCCCC  00CC  CCCCCCCC  CCC  C C  CCCCCCCC  C I C CCCCCCCC  C  0100  N
CCC 01 NCCCCCCC C C 01.CCCCCC 0101CC Cl CCCCCCCCC 0 C  CC I) C.
CC0I0ICCC CC C CCCCCC 01 CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC CCCCCCC 010 CCC C
CCCCCCCC CC CCCC0IC C CCCCCCCCC    C01CCCCC01CCC    C CNCCCCC       CNN CC
CCCCCCCC C CCCCCCCCCCNCCC  CC   COIl CC01CCCC C C   CC     . CC          0CC
C                                CICICI



-142 -                                                         ANNEX 6
Table 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Summarized Balance Sheets, June 30, 1976,
December 31, 1976 to 1979 and March 31, 1980
(P million)
June 30,                                                     March 31,
1976        1976        1977         1978        1979         1980
------------------- (audited) -------------------  (unaudited)
Assets
current assets
Cash and due from banks                                         311.1       184.4        253.4       357.3       666.4        560.9
Marketable securities                                           970.8    1,235.2      1,514.1      1,831.1     1,845.2      1,790.6
Short-term advances                                              41.4        34.5         44.1        75.8        83.6        101.3
Interest receivable                                              30.3        65.1         75.0        56.2        81.2         66.1
Accounts receivable                                              79.3        94.0        346.3       140.5        70.9        101.2
Current portion of long-term loans /a                           493.7       466.9       724.3    1,030.1       1,386.2    1,241.8
Total Current Assets                                        1,926.6    2,080.1    2,957.2    3,491.0    4,133.5    3,861.9
Long-term portfolio
Loans and advances
Agricultural loans                                         1,652.7      1,923.7    2,128.8    2,269.9    2,492.5    2,542.9
Industrial loans                                           3,130.4    3,743.2    4,963.1    5,526.8    6,745.6    7,168.5
Real estate loans                                          1,216.4    1,624.9    1,914.6    2,257.1    2,531.8    2,688.9
Government and landed estate, etc.                            104.6       122.9       177.9        247.0       314.5        339.9
Advances on guarantee                                         473.5       318.0       302.5        445.6       699.7        628.0
Contract mortgage receivable                                  108.6       197.6       267.5        387.1       561.0       571.0
Private development banks                                      71.9        82.6        96.6        104.8       158.5       175.0
Subtotal loans and advances                                 6,758.1      8,012.9    9,851.0   11,238.3   13,503.6   14,114.2
Less:  Allowance for doubtful accounts                        (71.1)      (17.4)       (71.3)      (74.7)      (47.4)       (50.1)
Current portion                                      (493.7)     (466.9)     (724.3)  (1,030.1)  (1,386.2)  (1,241.8)
Total Loans and Advances                                    6,193.3    7,528.6    9,055.4   10,133.5   12,070.0   12,822.3
Investments
Equity - preferred (including PDB stocks)                     319.0       318.4       397.7        578.6       710.0        784.1
common                                             402.8        417.4       541.3        728.0    1,345.7    1,579.3
Bonds                                                          68.8        83.9       176.0        232.4       380.9       384.5
Subtotal investments                                      790.6       819.7    1,115.0    1,539.0    2,436.6    2,747.9
Less:  Allowance for decline in value of stocks                (3.0)       (4.2)        (4.7)       (6.3)      (10.3)      (10.3)
Investments (Net)                                              787.6       815.5    1,110.3       1,532.7    2,426.3    2,737.6
Total Long-Term Portfolio                                   6,980.9    8,344.1   10,165.7   11,666.2   14,496.3   15,559.9
Fixed assets (net)                                                 68.4        71.6         79.4        90.6        96.8         98.9
Other assets
Property acquired through foreclosure                         1,139.0    1,063.5    1,525.7    1,592.2         1,707.6    1,735.3
Less:  Allowance for possible losses                            (39.3)      (44.5)       (61.1)      (86.2)     (139.4)     (145.6)
Loans under litigation                                           48.1        72.3       153.7        187.0       160.6       161.1
Others                                                          964.0    1,020.1        784.6    1,083.7    1,437.6    1,622.8
Total Other Assets                                          2,111.8    2,111.4    2,402.9    2,776.7    3,166.4    3,373.6
Total Assets                                               11,087.7   12,607.2   15,605.2   18,024.5   21,893.0   22,894.3



ANNEX 6
Table 4
-143-                                                  Page 2
June 30,                                                   March 31,
1976        1976        1977       1978        1979        1980
----------------- (audited) --------------------  (unaudited)
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Deposits                                                   3,697.2    3,529.4    3,395.0    4,004.9    4,533.5    4,793.4
Less:  Deposits subject to rollover                       (3,019.0)  (2,549.1)  (3,129.2)  (1,043.3)  (1,093.7)  (1,104.9)
Short-term borrowings - foreign                               25.6       293.8       302.0        74.8       102.7       302.9
domestic                            256.1      265.8       308.4       357.6       396.4       402.6
Accounts payable and accrued expenses                         222.2      259.9       482.4       513.4       731.3       872.6
Current maturities of term debts                             681.5       540.0       765.7       595.0       588.9       761.3
Total Current Liabilities                                 1,863.6    2,339.8    2,124.3    4,502.4    5,259.1    6,027.9
Long-term borrowings
Foreign currency borrowings                                1,979.6    2,065.4    3,500.1    4,218.7    5,310.9    5,410.8
Domestic currency borrowings                               2,207.9    3,099.4    4,125.2    5,048.0    6,458.8    6,736.4
Subtotal                                                  4,187.5    5,164.8    7,625.3    9,266.7   11,769.7   12,147.2
Less:  Current maturities                                    (681.5)    (540.0)    (765.7)    (595.0)    (588.9)    (761.3)
Add:  Deposits subject to rollover /b                      3,019.0    2,549.1    3,129.2    1,043.3    1,093.7    1,104.9
Total Long-Term Borrowings                                6,525.0    7,173.9    9,988.8    9,715.0   12,274.5   12,490.8
Deferred credits                                                426.7       438.5       416.5      405.8       627.9       576.1
Equity
Paid-in share capital                                      1,986.2    2,280.3    2,670.5    2,837.5    3,025.2    3,050.2
Retained earnings                                            163.5       216.7       164.5       216.5       262.0       305.0
Reserve for contingencies                                     102.3      128.8       190.8       270.8       333.6       333.6
Reserve for foreign exchange risk                             20.4        29.2        49.8        76.5       110.7       110.7
Total Equity                                              2,272.4    2,655.0    3,075.6    3,401.3    3,731.5    3,799.5
Total Liabilities and Equity                             1,087.7   12,607.2   15,605.2   18,024.5   21,93.0   22,894.3
Guarantees Outstanding
Foreign:  medium- and long-term                                 503.0       526.9       568.1      438.4       422.1       396.7
($ million) short-term                                          9.2        8.6        16.0        20.3        15.1        15.1
Domestic:  medium- and long-term                                 29.2        29.6        47.2        16.5        27.9        30.6
(Mln pesos) short-term                                          7.6         6.6       21.5        67.1        67.5        66.5
Total Peso Equivalent /c                                  3,843.6    4,032.7    4,374.0    3,466.8    3,336.0    3,155.7
Trust funds administered                                          105.2       106.3       111.4       104.1       362.4       377.9
Ratios
Total debt (including guarantees) to equity                     5.6:1       5.3:1       5.5:1       5.3:1      5.8:1       5.9:1
Current ratio (a) /d                                            1.0:1       0.9:1       1.4:1      0.8:1       0.8:1       0.6:1
(b) 74e                                         0.4:1       0.5:1       0.7:1       0.8:1       0.8:1       0.6:1
/a  Estimated principal amounts collectible within one year.
/b  Includes deposits of P 900 million with maturity of over one year in 1976-80.
/c  Exchange rate:  P 7.43 to US$1 for 1976; P 7.37 for 1977; P 7.38 for 1978; P 7.42 for 1979 and P 7.43 for 1980.
7-d  Current ratios based on current assets and liabilities as shown above.
/e  Current ratios based on current liabilities, including deposits subject to rollover, but excluding those with more
than one year's maturity.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



- 144 -
ANNEX. 6
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Summarized Income Statements for the Years Ended June 30, 1976,
December 31, 1976 to 1979 and Three Months Ended March 31, 1980
(P9000)
1980 /b
FY76    CY76 /a        CY77         CY78         CY79      (3 mois.)
Income
Interest on:
Agricultural loans                               62,302    77,778        115,486      132,782      147,072    36,957
Industrial loans                                261,318   324,759       430,217       588,865      711,720   231,298
Real estate loans                                69,428   102,732        139,851      235,719      296,743    93,567
PDB rediscounting & CMR                           8,230     19,849        17,620       16,324       21,810      8,389
Total                                          401,278   525,118       703,174       973,690   1,177,345   370,211
Interest on securities                             92,672    89,524        103,289      129,535      160,480    43,743
Dividend income                                     18,570    18,788         7,508        8,758       15,431      8,831
Guarantee fees                                      83,484    75,223        98,874       84,212       79,424    37,584
Administration fees on trust funds                     176        174          162          114           424        428
Others /c                                         217,539   195,855        239,005      317,590      534,024   116,748
Total Income                                   813,719   904,682   1,152,012   1,513,899   1,967,128   577,545
Expenses
Financial expenses                                540,781   639,738        827,950   1,134,435   1,437,544   449,151
Salaries and other personnel expenses              63,682    68,769         80,387      119,502      168,509    49,640
Other administrative expenses /d                   80,324    71,728        109,292      102,156      160,786    33,382
Total Expenses                                 684,787   780,235   1,017,629   1,356,093   1,766,839   532,173
Income before income tax and reserve
for contingencies                                 128,932   124,447        134,383      157,806      200,289    45,372
Provision for income tax                             (24,198)  (18,000)    (31,050)    (24,499)    (22,351)   (2,315)
Reserve for contingencies                            (20,000)  (17,000)            -             -            -          -
Net Income                                      84,734    89,347        103,333      133,307      177,938    43,057
Appropriations
Transferred to:
Paid-in capital                                  16,947           -       20,666       26,662       35,587
Reserve for foreign exchange risk                16,947           -      20,667        26,661       34,141
Reserve for contingencies                        50,840           -       62,000       79,984       62,776          -
Surplus                                                -    89,347             -            -       45,434    43,057
Total                                           84,734    89,347       103,333       133,307      177,938    43,057
Ratios /e
As i of Average Total Assets
1.  Gross income                                       7.9        8.2          8.2          9.0          9.9       10.3
2.  Financial expenses                                 5.7        5.8          5.9          6.7          7.2        8.0
3.  Gross spread (1 - 2)                               2.2        2.4          2.3          2.3          2.7        2.3
4.  Administrative expenses                            1.3        1.3          1.3          1.3          1.6        1.5
5.  Income before tax and provision                   0.9         1.1          1.0          1.0          1.1        0.8
Net Income as Y of:
1.  Average equity                                    3.6        3.7           3.6          4.1          5.0        4.9
2.  Share capital                                     4.1        4.3           4.2          4.8          6.1        5.7
Other Ratios
1. Interest income on loans as % of
average loan portfolio                            8.0        7.8          7.9           9.3          9.6       10.8
2.  Cost of debt as x of average debt                  7.2        7.4          7.4          8.4          8.8        9.6
3.  Average interest spread (1 - 2)                   0.8        0.4           0.5          0.9          0.8        1.2
/a  DBP shifted its accounting year (effective January 1977) from fiscal year to calendar year basis.  For com-
parison purposes, the summarized income statement for a one-year period from January to December 1976 is
presented.
Ib  'Ifaudited.                                                                                                     1980
7c  Including the following:                          FY76       CY76         CY77         CY78         CY79      (3 mos.)
Rental income from acquired assets        105,112   104,704        108,514       54,918      193,652      3,633
Interest income on deposits                 26,543    14,585         3,597        6,564        12,312      5,972
Additional interest and penalties           10,461    23,716        76,024      140,331      189,068    52,288
/d Including depreciation on acquired assets.
|e  Ratios for the three months ended March 31, 1980 are annualized.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



OoO   h-V                                                                  lo'                          0
Do0o    polo                                             0                 0
0o    000oo    Jo-              OoOODoo-000              0
0-0-000                                      0-00        0-     0              1000000000000            -   01-000
0000 00    o<oooo    00000000 000-00000000000000'00000000-D000(00   00(000 00000(0         00D00000 0000-I
00  I.-ooooo'ooo  oo-ooOOOOoOO   00000000000000000-                                  H0000000000oDO              01 10 000
8  00  0 ooooo-oO  0000 OOoooOOo-oOO0OCDO0 000000 0 40000 0        000000 -             0 000000000000  0 It (08000    00
lo 000000  00 0000000000000000000000000000-0000    000000000                     0 00000 0000000000000   0
-  00-  0  0000               000 00000000000'000000   0
0 OOoOOO  0 0000 000000000  000000  00000000                       0            -00000000000000   0 00
0  000  o  000 -'000-000-00-' 0000000000000  00    0000 ooOOOOO                    -000. 080oo    0 0.0000  0000
000000  000  00    00000000  00 00 -  000-0    000',.ooooooo                    00 000-- 000 oo-o-o    ooo    ooo
0000 000000-000000000  080-000' -oooo '< 0 oo  000-000                         00-0000000       0-'  000   oo 0
00  00-     0-00 0'   0 000000000  0 01'00   0 0000000000             0     0              000000000000          0  0    000
000     0.00  00-0.00000000  0-0000 80000000    o000  00000-  0               0-000000000000       0-  0    00
00000-00    0000 00000  000  00000  00000-0-000    000000000000                 000000  8000             0    000
000  00     000  00000000000000000000000000                     -               00000    000          0         000
00-00000    0-00 00-0 0000000000  000000 00000           000000000              00   0000             0       0
000000      000  o000  0000'000 00000000000010       ooo-000000'0               00  (0  0000         (0       000
00 0 0       000 o0001000"00-0 00000-D00 00 0        00000000000                         0-000        0       000
0000         0-0 00 0-000000000 D,D 00  0               0       0                        0 0                 000
0000         0000000  000000   000         00        0  0        0                       0
0000-        00   000- 00 01' 8000  0- 0             CoO         0                       00 o
000          00  0000 80000  00000 (00 0                                                     0                 000
000          0  0000   00 8 0 00  00 0              000                                     0                00
0000          <   000  00000-00   00 0               000                                 00                   00
0 00           0   <DO   '0- 0 0 0  80               000                                 00
0100               000 0 0 0- 000    0 0             000                                 00
0 00               00  -000 0 00    0  0             000
08 0               000 -000 0 00    0  0             000                                                      8
0                 010  000    (0   0-  0    00      000
0   0                0   '00  0  0   0  0
0                000   00         0    0
0                0-0   00    0    0    0
'0  00     00 0                                        00          0000      0
0 000-0080000    08000000000000000
000080000  0 08  000-0 0000000000000000000000 000    00000008000080      00
- 08000800800000000000100000000800000800000000    0 0(008000000000       00
I 0 [0      -        00
00         0000      0      0000000000   100000   0000    000
00    [0 00-0-00000000080000080000    000
0 000000 18 00 I 00000000 '000(0001000001 00    0 000 0000000    000                              0    000oo           00       0-
0000801000    000000000000000               0   000000000000                 1-000000-00000000  p000 0000   0000    00000    0
8000000000080-  000008  0 80'          00
'0                                                  I                   0                                                   0    0
lo      0010          -        0          0         08         0       -'(00     0                I                         0    0
10  00I00010.10I0  0000000000000000000000000800    08008000000000        j       0  ''''''II''''    oo'
I'     -0            -        '          '            '       '       00000    00 0 0    0000  100-0000                    0    0 0
100  0000018       00000    000    00008            000808080000    '0000    00 008000000000000  0010000000   00-0   00
0                I 0  10     00
8  J  8-00000-8 Jo 00000000000000000800088080-0000   00 800000-100000008    0      00- 000000000000  I000- 08000  0 008      00  00 0
0      000                                                                      000-0000000       I 008080000          0  (0  0M
0 0o000000 0 I 11000000000000000000000000000000    0 8000-00000000    0000      00000088008000000808  0000   00- 0  00 0  8
0 0 ooo  j'         000   0  0  00
00 00000000 0    000008000000000000008000           0000000                      0 0000000000000  0 0 0-00000-  00 08    00000000
I                                       I                                                                             0  0  0  0
0  0    0000 0        000                              0        000000       0      Jo                I                        0  00 0
0  0000-00  8 0    00 0 0   00            0 0      0   0-    0oooOOO0O 0            0 0000000088000000008   0 000   00            000 0  0 00 0-
0'      o.           -- -                             [        '0''''   -00000     0000    0         iOIOoOOOoO                    0     0000
0  008000-00000000   8000000000800-0000000000000    0-000000000000000  0-0000                          I''''''                    000   080
00  000000000000 I 0800000000008000000000000000000   00 0000000000000080     0000                       000000000                  (00[00    0
00                 00(0                                                  0  0  0 0
0000    11000   00         -  0  00010         0 00    00       00
01  0 0101800 I 00 OIl 100010010 0000' 1010000011 100     011000 0o80-0             I                I-
00          00                                                              10                '0,                 '0      00000    000000
*  'I.           .                       '            0.0''.    000 0    8 00000 0000080             00  0 00    00 0  00  0  00
O  0    00 o0-'o 0-   08 00    00000000            0          008000800        0       0000008000000008000800800    0000   000 0  0
II      10                                        00   000   00
0                                                                              o    0 0000008000800000080   00 80    0000   000 0  0-0
O             00                                                           I        I                I                                   00
0-       oo          0  0                    0    0      80000808000    0          00       OOOOo             0  00 00        0    0 0-
100088                     00                   18 0000000000080    00(00  00000000000   080oo0   0000   00  0    0 0
hi            0010800800000  0800000000000I                            10
00                                                                                     00000000000000   0000000000008                  0
00       00          0    0   Ht::2ooooo8   ;>
00                                                           0000008             0                0                        0
00 0       10    '0                                                    01-0      000000000                 0  00 08    00 0
0                                                                              0       000-000          '    -  00-0    0000    0
ho  0    -000080088000   00000000   0000    000    00
0      0 0000000000800000080080000
oOIo                                        0000000            000  0                                               0
o00010          000     000       - 0-00. 00.0   0 0-0000000808
0                     00000008000000800000-' 00000000    0080000000000000000        0        00   0  0 0          Ho 000
00                                                                                     008000000000   0 0          00
0                                                 '                                    000000-0880800 00 0000o0
I 0ooZ2i I    ?'"v2?i'?5'??t                      0        00-0
0  0  oo0000( 0      o0000000000000008800000    00000008000000000                  I                1010
01                                                                                                   jI-
K      1000000080000000000 000 0<000408    0  -      -       0-         8o00000800008   000000000
0                                                          0        0                  00000000 0ol08  8,00 00008
o             '0-                                                                                       I
0  I.o      0            000       0               0   0000oO   8          0  0        0000080000000  00008   I
oIl  00000000800000                                      00 0008
0      00   I 0                                     00  0       0
00000 I? 00 11000000 0000000080000000080000    0080800
0   -oooo0[o      00000000000000000000008001Y0
I         0  0  10010 0000  I              0
0    0000000   08000000000000000000088    000000  0-                            I oo00'  00    I I  ..oo   I
00 0800000 0 0010000000000000800000800000000000000   00  00 0008 0              I 000 0008 0800  JO ISO
00 00000000000   00000080000008800000000000000-08    0  00 000000
00     00000    000000000000000000000    00800000                      I           00800000880   0000  0008
00000008  0-0 I 0000000000000080000008 O000o 10    000008800
0080000008    000000008000000000000000000000000    0000000
000000-08   JO >0
00o8000 0   Jo lo 8o00
8   8    0 0       0  0 0                  0     00000
'00''00  00'''''0                      -'-'                 'so              1010                                     //
0 0 o8o00o0001010000000080000000800008001010 0800080
00  000000(08    000000080000000000000008000 8 0   00  0000080                     00-8000008<    I           I II    0



ANNEX-6
-146-                                                    Table 7
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECt
Development Bank of the Philippines
Projected Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements, 1980-84
(Amounts in million pesos)
Actual                             Projected
1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
Approvals
Loans
Industrial loans                               1,356.6      2,329.5/a 1,672.4        1,992.4    2,380.0    2,893.5
(Of which foreign currency loans)           (1,041.2)   (1,863.2) (1,059.3)   (1,223.2)  (1,431.3)  (1,717.6)
Agricultural loans                               701.4         940.8      998.5      1,137.0    1,328.5    1,660.6
Real estate and government loans                 629.5         739.7      754.2        830.0       914.7    1,024.9
Private development banks, etc.                  134.4         121.6      152.0        190.0       237.5       296.9
Refinancing                                    1,735.8           -          -            -           -           -
Subtotal                                      4,557.7      4,131.6   3,577.1        4,149.4    4,860.7    5,815.9
Investments                                      1,317.0         400.0      500.0        600.0       700.0       800.0
Total Loans and Investments                   5,874.7         4,531.6  4077.1     4,749.4    5,560.7    6,615.9
Guarantens                                          858.8      2,966.0   2,224.5       2,224.5    2,224.5    2,224.5
Total Approvals                               6,733.5      7,497.6   6,301.6        6,973.9    7,785.2    8,840.4
Commitments
Loans
Industrial loans                                            2,520.2   1,836.7        1,912.4    2,283.1    2,765.1
(Of which foreign currency loans)                        (2,091.6) (1,260.3)   (1,182.2)  (1,379.3)  (1,646.0)
Agricultural loans                                             885.0      984.1      1,102.4    1,280.6    1,532.5
Real estate and government loans                               713.1      750.5        811.1       893.5       997.4
Private development banks, etc.                                115.5      144.4        180.5       225.6       282.1
Subtotal                                                   4,233.8   3,715.7        4,006.4    4,682.8    5,577.1
Investments                                                      400.0      500.0        600.0       700.0       800.0
Total Loans and Investments                                4,633.8   4,215.7        4,606.4    5,382.8    6,377.1
Guarantees                                                     2,226.6   2,521.1       2,224.5    2,224.5    2,224.5
Total Commitments                                          6,860.4   6,736.8        6,830.9    7,607.3    8,601.6
Disbursements
Loans
Industrial loans                                2,329.4    1,916.1    1,890.4    1,852.2    2,263.7    2,850.0
(Of which foreign currency loans)            (1,878.3)  (1,499.9.)  (1,435.8)  (1,143.0)  (1,378.2)  (1,792.0)
Agricultural loans                                552.3        967.2       828.6    1,058.5    1,287.3    1,539.3
Real estate and government loans                  403.8       875.5        889.1       852.8       925.3    1,009.9
Private development banks, etc.                    99.7       114.9        149.0       186.2       232.7       290.9
Subtotal                                       3,385.2    3,873.7    3,757.1    3,949.7    4,709.0    5,690.1
Investments                                         916.7       400.0        500.0       600.0       700.0       800.0
Total Disbursements                            4,301.9    4,273.7    4,257.1    4,549.7    5,409.0   6490.1
Advances on guarantees                            1,381.2        614.2       381.3       328.6       293.5       211.4
/a  Includes loan approvals for the rehabilitation of cement and textile industries (P 700 million) and for
the expansion of gold mines (P 500 million).
Assumptions
Approvals      - The projected loan approvals for 1980 are based on the actual results in the first quarter of
1980 and the pipeline of projects as of March 31, 1980, which included the rehabilitation pro-
gram of cement and textile industries and the expansion program of gold mines. The projected
decline in loan approvals in 1981 reflects the absence of special lending programs undertaken
in 1980. Approvals for 1982 through 1984 are based on the expected growth potential of each
sector.
Commitments   - Based on DBP-s past experience, 75% of loan approvals are assumed to be committed in the same
year and the remaining 25% in the following year.
Disbursements - are based on the closing dates of the respective credit lines, the nature and requirements of
projects and past pattern of DBP's disbursements.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



ANNEX 6
- 147 -                               Table 8
Page I
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Long-Term Resource Position as of December 31, 1979 and March 31, 1980
(P million)
Amount
Dec. 31,   Mar. 31,
Item                                                  1979        1980
Domestic Sources
Equity
Paid-in capital                                              3,050.2      3,050.2
Reserves and surplus                                           681.3        749.3
Subtotal                                              3,731.5      3,799.5
Borrowings (net of repayment)
Bonds and Notes
ordinary and progress bonds                                  118.5        114.6
Bills payable-repurchase agreement /a                     1,307.8       1,405.4
Countryside bills /b                                      1,636.9       1,635.8
Notes payable to the government and government
agencies                                                2,442.8      2,522.8
Subtotal                                              5,506.0      5,678.6
Special Loans and Funds
Advances from CB                                             163.7        198.7
Central Bank funds for new hotel financing /c                160.2         82.7
Special loans payable and funds                               31.8         31.8
Government funds for agricultural and SMI projects/d  1,241.3           1,249.9
Subtotal                                              1,597.0      1,563.1
Time and savings deposits maturing beyond 1 year               1,093.7      1,104.6
Less: 'Central Bank's reserve requirement                        259.9        268.3
Subtotal                                                833.8        836.u
Total                                                11,668.3    11,877.7
Foreign Sources
Borrowings
Foreign government agencies                                  270.0        245.4
Commercial banks and others                               1,829.0       1,746.6
Foreign currency deposits (net of reserve
requirements)                                             572.1         572.1
IBRD and AJB loans /e                                     1,709.4       1,703.7
Bonds payable                                                490.9        490.9
Central Bank /f                                            1,300.9      1,301.3
New borrowings /g                                            141.3        141.3
Total                                               6,313.6      6,201.3
Total Resources                                    17,981.9    18,079.0
Less:  Loans and advances outstanding                         13,456.2    14,064.1
Equity and long-term security investments              2,426.3      2,737.6
Fixed assets                                              96.8          98.9
Acquired assets (net)                                  1,568.2      1,589.7
Loans under litigation                                    160.6        161.1
Other long-term assets                                   812.7        832.6
Subtotal                                           18,520.8    19,484.0



- 148 -                                ANNEX.6
I ble8
Add: Short term resources us_d for financing
long-term assets                                     2,378.2      2,892.0
Long term resources /h available for:
Peso disbursements                                           645.1        505.4
Foreign currency disbursements                             1,194.2        981.6
1,839.3     1,487.0
Less: Undisbursed commitments
Peso                                                    644.6        702.2
Foreign currency                                        848.4        899.4
Resources available for commitments
Peso                                                      -         (196.8)
Foreign currency                                        345.8 Xi      82.2
/a Includes P 1,141 million at the end of 1979 and P 1,150 million as of
March 31, 1980 for hotel projects already financed.
/b Carries an interest rate of 9% p.a. (tax free) up to the end of 1979; the
portion (P 364 million) issued in 1980 on a discount basis for redemption
of old bills, although carrying coupon rate of 9% p.a. (no longer tax free),
cost DBP an effective rate of 15% p.a. DBP has been authorized to issue
bills up to P 2 billion on an outstanding basis; unutilized authority
(about P 360 million) has not been reflected in this statement since an
effective cost of additional issues, which depends on market timing, is
uncertain.
/c  To be drawn from the Central Bank for new hotel (mainly outside Metro
Manila) financing.
/d Represents IBRD and ADB loans relent to DBP through the Government in
domestic currency and includes undrawn balances of P 484 million at the
end of 1979 and P 423 million as of March 31, 1980 respectively.
/e Outstanding balances for financing industrial and shipping projects plus
undrawn balances (from existing lines of credit) of P 72.9 million at the
end of 1979 and P 647 million as of 'Harch 31, 1980.
/f Outstanding balances plus undrawn balances (from the Central Bank-s
Consolidated Foreign Borrowing program) of P 324 million at the end of
1979 and P 193 million as of March 31, 1980, respectively, which are
earmarked for specific projects.
/g  Borrowings from Toronto Dominion Investments (HongKong) Ltd. (US$9 million),
OPEC Special Funds (US$2.2 million) and International Bank Aussenhandel of
Austria (US$8 million)
/h For details, please see footnotes /c, /d, /e, /f, and /g above.
/i  About US$46 million representing the amounts shown in footnote /g above and
uncommitted balances of ADB loan.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



- 149-                                                     ANNEX 6
Table 9
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Projected Balance Sheets, December 31, 1980-84
(In million pesos)
Actual                             Projected
1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
Assets
Current assets
Cash and due from banks                             666.4       717.5       773.7       834.7       901.6       975.1
Marketable securities                             1,845.2    1,902.3    1,936.3    2,090.7    2,195.1    2,221.3
Short-term advances                                  83.6        79.5        75.0        70.1        64.7        58.8
Interest receivable                                  81.2        86.2       100.6       105.6       110.6       118.6
Accounts receivable                                  70.9        85.9        90.8        95.8       100.8       108.9
Current portion of long-term loans                1,386.2    1,459.8    1,722.4    2,022.4    2,708.1    2,958.3
Total Current Assets                             4,133.5    4,331.2    4,698.8    5,219.3    6,080.9    6,441.0
Long-term loans
Agricultural loans                                2,492.5    3,091.3    3,509.4    4,136.5    4,943.6    5,845.3
Industrial loans                                  6,745.6    8,266.1    9,729.5   11,008.8   12,506.3   14,132.4
Real estate loans                                 2,531.8    3,148.4    3,771.2    4,286.3    4,814.6    5,380.6
Government and landed estate loans                  260.7       356.0       452.7       536.8       626.4       740.0
Advances on guaranteed loans                        699.1    1,022.2    1,023.3         976.9       915.3       801.8
Educational assistance loans                          6.9         9.9        12.9        15.9        18.9        21.9
Contract mortgage receivable                        561.0    1,322.7    1,267.7    1,241.9    1,237.2    1,245.6
PDB advances and rediscounts                        158.5       215.7       272.8       340.6       419.8       489.8
Financial assistance loans                           39.5        39.5        39.5        39.5        39.5        32.3
Rediscounts - Provident fund                          7.4        12.4        16.4        20.5        24.5        28.4
Total Long-Term Loans                           13,503.6   17,484.2   20,095.4   22,603.7   25,546.1   28,718.1
Less:  Reserve for possible losses                  (47.4)      (56.0)      (65.6)      (76.4)      (88.4)     (101.6)
Current portion                          (1,386.2)  (1,459.8)  (1,722.4)  (2,022.4)  (2,708.1)  (2,958.3)
Net Long-Term Loans                             12,070.0   15,968.4   18,307.4   20,504.9   22,749.6   25,658.2
Long-term investments
Equity - Preferred                                  710.0       929.3    1,214.2    1,559.4    1,947.1    2,393.9
Common                                  1,345.7    1,479.7    1,651.2    1,860.6    2,107.9    2,376.1
Bonds                                               380.9       379.7       379.5       379.2       379.0       379.0
Total Long-Term Investments                      2,436.6    2,788.7    3,244.9    3,799.2    4,434.0    5,149.0
Less:  Reserve for doubtful investments              10.3        12.1        14.0        16.3        18.8         21.6
Net Long-Term Investments                        2,426.3    2,776.6    3,230.9    3,782.9    4,415.2    5,127.4
Total Long-Term Portfolio                       14,496.3   18,745.0   21,538.3   24,287.8   27,164.8   30,785.6
Fixed assets (net)                                     96.8       163.8       229.1       292.6       304.9        316.0
Properties acquired through foreclosure (net)   1,568.2           944.0       977.9       955.1       920.8       881.3
Other assets /a                                     1,598.2    1,768.3    1,719.9    1,702.1    1,685.5    1,669.3
Total Assets                                    21,893.0   25,952.3   29,164.0   32,456.9   36,156.9   40,093.2



-   -                                                ANNEX 6
Table 9
Page 2
Actual                             Projected
1979        1980        1981        1982        19R3        1984
Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Current liabilities
Savings and time deposits (maturing within
1 year)                                         3,439.8    3,760.0    4,131.2    4,529.4    4,966,2    5,445.0
Short-term borrowings - Domestic                    102.7       222.4       222.4       222.4       222.4       222.4
Foreign                   396.4       189.0       123.7       123.7       123.7       123.7
Accounts payable and accrued expenses               731.3       764.7       775.8       783.5       801.3       806.4
Current maturities of long-term debts               588.9       925.3    1,036.5    1,296.8         998.0    1,346.2
Total Current Liabilities                        5,259.1    5,861.4    6,289.6    6,955.8    7,111.6    7,943.7
Long-term debt
Foreign currency borrowings                       5,310.9    7,163.7    8,951.0    9,387.6    9,526.2    9,734.7
Domestic currency borrowings                      6,458.8    7,501.4    7,736.3    8,034.9    8,036.2    8,747.5
Unprogrammed lines                                    -         199.5       560.4    2,147.1    4,633.1    6,985.0
Subtotal                                        11,769.7   14,864.6   17,247.7   19,569.6   22,195.5   24,867.2
Less:  Current maturities                          (588.9)     (925.2)  (1,036.5)  (1,296.8)       (9q8.0)  (1,346.2)
Add: Deposits maturing beyond one year
(subject to rollover)                    1,093.7    1,120.9    1,132.1    1,148.6    1,167.1    1,188.0
Total Long-Term. Debts                          12,274.5   15,060.3   17,343.3   19,421.4   22,364.6   24,809.0
Deferred credits                                      627.9       823.1       817.8       812.3       806.3       787.2
Stockholders- equity
Paid-up capital                                   3,025.2    3,325.3    3,613.5    3,915.6    4,231.0    4,568.2
Surplus                                             262.0       289.3       317.1       388.5       520.4       696.9
Reserve for contingencies                           333.6       436.8       572.2       689.8       775.1       848.8
Reserve for foreign exchange risks                  110.7       156.1       210.5       273.5       345.9       427.0
Total Stockholders' Equity                       3,731.5    4,207.5    4,713.3    5,267.4    5,874.4    6,543.3
Total Liabilities and Stockholders  Equity  21,893.0   25,952.3   29,164.0   32,456.9   36,156.9   40,093.2
Contingent Liabilities
Foreign guarantees outstanding                      3,241.5    4,345.8    5,710.0    6,894.9    7,751.5    8,488.1
Domestic guarantees outstanding                        94.5        22.1        12.0         3.6         -           -
Total                                            3,336.0    4,367.9    5,722.0    6,898.9    7,751.5    8,489.1
Ratios
Total debt (including guarantees) to equity           5.9:1       6.2:1       6.4:1       6.5:1       6.5:1       6.4:1
Current ratio (a) /b                                  0.6:1       0.7:1       0.7:1       0.8:1       0.9:1       n.8:1
(b) /c                                 0.6:1       0.6:1       0.6:1       0.6:1       0.7:1       0.7:1
/a Including loans under litigation.
/b Current ratio based on current assets and liabilities as shown above.
/c Current ratio based on current liabilities including deposits subject to rollover buit excludinp those with a
more than one-year maturity.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



- 151 -                                      ANNEX 6
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Projected Income Statements, 1980-84
(In million pesos)
Actual                       Projected
1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
Income
Interest on loans                              1,177.3  1,670.1  2,112.3  2,378.4  2,769.9  3,101.2
Earnings on funds and securities                 187.5    240.6    317.0    412.0    535.7    696.3
Miscellaneous bank fees                          155.3    181.7    212.5    248.7    291.0    340.4
Other income                                     447.0    435.4    566.1    735.9    956.6  1,243.6
Total Income                               1,967.1  2,527.8  3,207.9  3,775.0  4,553.2  5,381.5
Expenses
Interest and other financial expenses          1,437.5  1,909.4  2,410.2  2,783.4  3,311.2  3,803.5
Provision for doubtful accounts                   30.0      36.0      40.0      45.0      50.0      55.0
Salaries and other personnel expenses            168.5    231.4    313.5    400.8    521.4    694.8
Other administrative expenses                    130.8    103.3    138.4    191.7    263.6    359.4
Total Expenses                             1,766.8  2,280.1  2,902.1  3,420.9  4,146.2  4,912.7
Net operating income                               200.3    247.7    305.8    354.1    407.0    468.8
Less:  Provision for income tax                   22.4      27.7      33.8      39.1      45.0      51.8
Net Income                                    177.9    220.0    272.0    315.0    362.0    417.0
Appropriations
Transfers to paid-in capital                      35.6      44.0      54.4      63.0      72.4      83.4
Surplus                                           45.4      28.8      27.8      71.4    131.9    176.4
Reserve for foreign exchange risk                 34.1      44.0      54.4      63.0      72.4      83.4
Reserve for contingencies                         62.8    103.2    135.4    117.6         85.3      73.8
Total Appropriations                          177.9    220.0    272.0    315.0    362.0    417.0
Ratios
As % of average total assets
Gross income                                     9.9      10.6      11.6      12.2      13.3      14.1
Financial expenses                               7.2       8.0       8.7       9.0       9.6      10.0
Administrative expenses                          1.6       1.5       1.8       2.1       2.5       2.9
Total expenses                                   8.8       9.5      10.5      11.1      12.1      12.9
Income before provision for income tax           1.1       1.0       1.1       1.1       1.2       1.2
Net income as % of average:
Equity                                           5.0       5.5       6.0       6.3       6.5       6.7
Share capital                                    6.1       6.9       7.8       8.4       8.9       9.5
AEPID
January 28, 1981



ANNEX 6
- 152 -
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Development Bank of the Philippines
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1980-84
(In million pesos)
Actual                        Projected
1979        1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
Sources
From operations
Net income after tax                        177.9       220.0    272.0    315.0    362.0    417.0
Noncash charges                              68.8        47.0      52.7      59.5      65.7      71.9
Subtotal                                   246.7       267.0    324.7    374.5    427.7    488.9
Collection on long-term loans               1,427.5/a    882.5  1,038.7  1,315.9  1,645.4  2,352.9
Collection on advances on guarantees          318.9       291.8    380.2    375.0    355.0    324.9
Sale/redemption of long-term securities   167.8            48.5      43.7      45.7      65.2      85.0
Increase in share capital                     152.2       256.0    233.8    239.2    245.0    251.8
Drawdown on foreign borrowings              2,001.4    2,271.9  2,127.5    939.4    741.5    741.5
Domestic borrowings from:
Advances from CB                            181.3       273.7      37.5        -         -        -
Countryside bills payable                   143.8       363.1    200.0    200.0    200.0    200.0
Others                                    1,433.1       831.1    984.3  2,257.8  3,017.9  2,851.9
Total Borrowings                         3,759.6    3,739.8  3,349.3  3,397.2  3,959.4  3,793.4
New deposits                                  528.6       347.4    382.4    414.8    455.3    499.8
Increase in other liabilities /b              336.7          -         -         7.7      17.8       5.1
Decrease in other assets                      673.0       255.7    244.2    121.9    164.5    252.6
Total Sources                            7,611.0    6,088.7  5,997.0  6,291.9  7,335.3  8,054.4
Uses
Disbursements on loan commitments           3,395.2    3,873.7  3,757.1  3,949.9  4,709.0  5,690.1
Advances on guarantees                        603.3       614.2    381.3    328.6    293.5    211.4
New long-term investments                   1,080.2       400.0    500.0    600.0    700.0    800.0
Repayment of long-term borrowings
Foreign                                     834.2       331.6    299.3    463.9    566.3    509.3
Domestic                                    346.9       374.1    625.9    572.6    730.6    488.7
Subtotal                                 1,181.1       705.1    925.2  1,036.5  1,296.9    998.0
Increase in fixed assets                       15.3         78.0      78.0      78.0     28.0      28.0
Increase in current assets /c                 932.4       276.9    214.9    215.1    214.6    220.1
Increase in other assets                       25.8        22.5      24.8      17.4      20.5      24.2
Decrease in current liabilities /b             46.7        61.7       54.3       -         -        -
Decrease in other liabilities                  31.9          4.9       5.2       5.6       5.9      9.1
Total Uses                               7,301.9    6,037.6  5,940.8  6,230.9  7,268.4  7,980.9
Ending Cash Balance                        666.4       718.5    773.7    834.7    901.6    975.1
Increase/(decrease) in cash                     309.1        51.1       56.2     61.0      66.9      73.5
Cash balance - beginning                        357.3       666.4    718.5    773.7    834.7    901.6
Cash Balance - End                         666.4       718.5    773.7    834.7    901.6    975.1
Debt service coverage (times)                     0.9          1.3       1.2       1.3       1.2       1.4
(a  Actual cash collection in 1979 amounted to only P 793 million; the balance represented
noncash collections.
/b Other than deposits and current maturities of long-term borrowings.
/c Other than cash and current portion of long-term loans.
AEPID
january 28, 1981



- 153 -                                ANNEX 7
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Composition of Gross Value Added in Manufacturing - 1970, 1975 and 1979
Average annual
Amount /a (P million)         Share /a (%)          growth /b (%)
1970   1975    1979       1970   1975   1979   1970-75  1975-79
Food                2,660   7,231  13,100    27.8   25.3   24.8           3.6       5.5
Beverages             516   1,264   2,402       5.4    4.4    4.6         5.8      10.3
Tobacco               714   1,875   2,625       7.5    6.5    5.0        14.5       0.5
Textiles              553   1,687   3,057       5.8    5.9    5.8         5.9       9.5
Footwear/
clothing           395      834   1,834       4.1    2.9    3.5         5.7       9.0
Wood                  460      871   2,563       4.8    3.1    4.9       -1.1       8.0
Furniture              77      131     232      0.8    0.5    0.4        -3.4       4.4
Paper                 261      826   1,354      2.7    2.9    2.6         7.3       3.6
Printing              202      557      726     2.1    2.0    1.4        11.3       0.5
Leather                17       42       74     0.2    0.1    0.1         0.0       5.4
Rubber                124      400      502      1.3    1.4    0.9       17.7      -1.4
Chemicals             813   3,530   7,864       8.5   12.4   14.9        18.3      12.0
Petroleum & coal    738   3,526   4,898         7.7   12.4    9.3         7.5      -1.9
Nonmetallic min-
eral products       388     954   2,077       4.0    3.3    3.9         2.8       4.7
Basic metal
industries          465   1,373   3,089       4.9    4.8    5.9         3.2      10.2
Metal products        305      678   1,419       3.2    2.4    2.6        1.4       7.7
Machinery
(except
electrical)         154     303      534      1.6    1.1    1.0         1.3       6.4
Electrical
machinery           269      751   1,545      2.8    2.6    2.9         4.3      10.8
Transport
equipment           349   1,447   2,504       3.6    5.1    4.7         4.0       4.4
Miscellaneous
manufactures        114      264     399      1.2    0.9    0.8        11.3      -0.4
Total gross
value
added       9,574  28,544  52,798   100.0  100.0  100.0           7.0       6.3
/a In current prices.
lb In constant prices.
Sources: National Census and Statistics Office, Government of the Philippines.
AEPID
January 27, 1981



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Projected Macroeconomic Performance: With and Without Structural Adjustment
US$ bln.                   A.  Without Structural Adjustment                                 B.  With Structural Adjustment
(current            Share of GDP /a              Average increase (Z)              Share of GDP /a               Average increase (%)
prices)         (Constant 1978 prices)         (Constant 1978 prices)          (Constant 1978 prices)          (Constant 1978 prices)
1979           1980      1985    1990     1975-80   1980-85   1985-90          1980     1985     1990    1975-80   1980-85    1985-90
National Accounts
Gross domestic produtct /a            28.8           100.0   100.0   100.0          6.0        5.5         5.3      100.0    100.0   100.0          6.0        6.4         7.6
Agriculture                            7.0            26.8    25.8    24.8          4.8        4.7         4.5       26.8     25.0    22.0          4.8        5.0         5.0
Industry                              10.1            35.5    35.9    36.2          7.8        5.7         5.5       35.5     37.7     40.6         7.8        7.6         9.1
(of which Manufacturing)             7.1           24.8    25.5    25.7           6.5        6.0        5.4       24.8      26.8    28.8         6.5         8.0        9.2
Services                              11.7            37.7    38.3    39.0          5.8        5.8         5.8       37.7     37.3     37.4         5.8        6.1         7.7
Consumption                           21.9            76.5    75.7    73.4          5.2        5.1         4.7       76.5     72.4     68.7         5.2        5.2         6.5
Fixed investment                       6.9            24.0    23.5    23.7          6.5        4.5         5.5       24.0    24.5      25.0         6.5        6.8         7.8
Exports of GNFS                        5.5            20.3    24.3    28.0         10.0        9.3         8.4       20.3     24.7     27.5        10.0       10.7        10.0
Imports of GNFS                        7.1            26.0    27.2    28.6          8.0        6.4        6.4        26.0     26.2     25.4         8.0        6.6        6.9
Other Indicators
Current account balance
(billion of US$ at                                 -2.2    -3.7    -5.8                                           -2.2     -2.7      -1.8
current prices)
(as % of GDP)                                       5.8      6.3      5.7                                          5.8       4.4      2.0
Average annual per capita
consumption growth rate (%)                                                       2.6        2.6        2.2                                      2.6         2.7        4.0
Incremental capital/output
ratio (5-year average)                                                            4.6        4.9        5.1                                      4.6         4.5        3.8
Import elastiCity (5-yr avg.)                                                      1.20       1.20       1.20                                     1.20        1.05       0.95
Manufacturing employment as %
of total employment (%)                            12.4     11.9    11.5                                           12.4     12.8     14.4
Debt service ratio (end of
period)                                            16.6    24 3    29.2                                           16.6    21.2       18.3
Note:  These projections are intended to illustrate the structural adjustment process.  They are based on numerous estimates and, assumptions about domestic
and external parameters/conditions.  While these are all believed to be reasonable, some of them could be invalidated by subsequent developments.
/a At market prices.
^19



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Total Assets of the Philippine Financial System,/a 1974-80 (June 30)
Amount (P million:  end-of-year figures)                                       As percent of total
1980                                                        1980
1974      1975      1976      1977      1978        1979   (06/30)        1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979  (06/30)
54,143   69,840   79,990   94,521  121,165    157,025  162,652             72.4   71.6   69.6    72.8   74.5   74.5    71.4
Commercial banks            42,425   53,173   58,731   68,676   89,799    117,479  118,322             56.7   54.5   51.1    52.6   55.2   55.7    51.9
Thrift Banks                 1,667    2,126    3,024    3,450    5,603           7,666    8,254         2.2    2.2      2.6    3.2    3.5    3.7         3.6
PDBs                         296       382       482       596       760       1,015     1,149        0.4    0.4    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5           0.5
Savings & mortgage
banks                   1,160      1,422    2,043    2,180    3,897          5,389    5,701         1.6    1.5      1.8    2.2    2.4    2.6        2.5
Stock SLAs                   211       322       499       674       946       1,262     1,404        0.3    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.6    0.6          0.6
Rural banks                  2,111    2,749    3,018    3,328    4,037           4,921      5,369       2.8    2.8    2.6    2.5    2.5    2.3           2.4
Specialized Banks            7,940   11,792   15,217   19,067   21,726          26,959   30,707        10.6   12.1    13.3   14.5    13.3   12.8    13.5
DBP                        6,758    9,644   12,780   15,806   18,210          21,902   25,022         9.0        9.8    11.1    12.1    11.2   10.4    11.0
Land Bank                  1,182    2,096    2,384    3,194    3,446           4,970    5,592         1.6    2.2    2.1       2.4    2.1    2.4       2.5
Philippine Amanah
Bank                         -        52        53        67        70          87         93      -       0.1    0.1    0.0    -          -        -
Nonbank Financial
Institutions                20,714   27,696   34,924   35,667   41,554          53,838   65,188        27.6   28.4   30.4   27.2   25.5   25.5          28.6
Investment houses          3,840    4,774    4,825    4,747    4,763           6,553    7,449         5.1    4.9    4.2    3.6    2.9    3.1           3.3
Finance companies          2,307    3,467    4,645    5,852        7,366       9,743   11,233         3.1    3.5    4.0    4.5    4.5    4.6           4.9
Investment companies         689    1,989    3,751    3,922    4,651           5,487    6,133         0.9    2.0    3.3    3.0    2.9    2.6          2.7
Securities dealers/
brokers                    882    1,067    1,092         979    1,120        1,035       936        1.2    1.1     1.0    0.8    0.7    0.5         0.4
Pawnshops                    101        90       149       178       192         229       258        0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1       0.1    0.1       0.1
Fund managers              1,951    2,610    3,302         552       834       1,158     1,379        2.6    2.7      2.9    0.4    0.5    0.6        0.6
Lending Investors             25        61        17        16        19           23        31       -       0.1    -        -       -      -        -
Nonstock savings &
loan associations           71        86       112       144       192         251       267       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1           0.1
Mutual building &
loan associations           25        26        23        23        21          21        20       -       -       -       -       -       -        -
Private insurance
companies               3,468    4,245    5,230    6,168    7,274/b   13,471    18,361/b    4.6    4.4    4.6    4.7    4.5    6.4                  8.1
Specialized Nonhank        7,355    9,281    11,778   13,086    15,122        15,867   19,121         9.8    9.5   10.3   10.0    9.3    7.5          8.4
GSIS                    4,144    4,690    6,304    6,751    7,833            7,347    8,754         5.5    4.8    5.5    5.2       4.8    3.5       3.8
SSS                     2,389    2,997    3,841    4,942    5,500            6,748    8,359        3.2    3.1      3.3    3.8    3.4    3.2         3.7
ACA                        452       698       710       421       751         429       388        0.6    0.7    0.6    0.3    0.5    0.2          0.2
NIIC                       370       896       923       972    1,038        1,343     1,620       0.5    0.9    0.8    0.7        0.6    0.6       0.7
Total               74,857   97,536  114,914  130,188  162,719    210,863  227,840            100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
/a  Excluding the Central Bank of the Phlippines.
/b  Extrapolated from 1977 or 1979 figure assuming same annual growth rate as in 1977-79.                                                                            a 
Soutce:  Data provided by the auithorities.
AEPtD                                                                                                                                                                    -
Janxiary 27, 1981



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Status of the Bank-s Industrial Lending as of December 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Date of    Date of        Closing date       Loan /a
approval  agreement  Original  Present   amount   Committed  Disbursed  Repaid /b  Outstanding
Development Bank of the
Philippines (DP)
Loan No.  998-PH                 06/11/74  06/12/74   12/31/81  12/31/81   50.0/c           46.9        46.2         4.8          41.4
1190-PH                12/16/75  01/28/76   03/31/80  03/31/81   75.0             75.0        69.9         1.4          68.5
1572-PH                05/18/78  06/06/78   06/30/82  06/30/82   80.0             53.5 /d    33.6          -            33.6
Subtotal                                                                   205.0       175.4        149.7         6.2        143.5
Private Development Corporation
of the Philippines (PDCP)
Loan No.  331-PH                 12/20/62  02/15/63   06/30/66  12/31/68   14.8             14.8        14.8        14.8           -
467-PIH               09/22/66  09/23/66   12/31/69  01/31/72   24.9             24.9        24.9        24.5           0.4             -
630-PH                07/01/69  06/10/69   06/30/72  09/30/73   23.7             23.7        23.7        18.2           5.5             a
1052-PH                11/05/74  11/12/74   06/30/79  06/30/81   30.0             30.0        26.6         6.7          19.9             1
1514-PH                01/31/78  02/09/78   03/31/82  03/31/82   30.0             30.0        13.2         -            13.2
Subtotal                                                                   123.4       123.4        103.2        64.2          39.0
Philippine Investment and
Systems Organization (PISO)
Loan No. 1555-PBl                04/27/78  05/08/78   12/31/82  12/31/82   15.0             15.0        11.7         0.2          11.5
Small and Medium Industry
Development Projects
Loan No. 1120-PH                 05/27/75  06/05/75   08/31/79  12/31/79   30.0             29.6        29.6         2.3          27.3
1727-PH                06/12/79  06/27/79   06/30/83  06/30/83   25.0              9.2         9.2          -            9.2
Subtotal                                                                    55.0        38.8         38.8         2.3         36.5
Total                                                                      398.4/a    352.6        303.4        172.9        230.5
/a  Net of cancellations; total cancellations amounted to $1.6 million.
/b  Repaid to the Bank.
/c  Includes a component of $2.0 million for tree plantation.
/d  Includes a small- and medium-scale industry component of $29.7 million which is disbursed against a statement of expenses;                     X
no prior commitments for subprojects are made against this loan component.



OR-ILEPPINFS
INDIJSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
DBP                                                               PDCP                                                             FIREToa
Nestler nf  Total pcajech  Emplnystent  On~~~~Fpn-rs   Enahec oF  Teal p-r -la          Eajelnyn..ot       lnp-tt      Onnte- af  etal p-nject           e.ployseot       Enp-ts           lnahor nI  Total pcoJ-c           laplny-nt         Enp-rtn
By Nectar
agrintart-               12   24.3      774.0   24.7   4,132   28.8  156.1   7,9.6    21   11.2             299.5     7.5    1,413      5.2    7,6     2.8     -    -           -       -                                        38  - N    14.6 11I ,872.  14.3    5,545    12.5I  1637    3.
Te-tiie &                  2aaor  0   28.6  1,188.3    35.5   4,258    33.2    1. 1    5.1    1 2-     6.3    188.4      4.5   3,242    12.0  18.9l   11.2        2   16.7        8.4     2 .5      82     2.8     0.7     3.4      34    13.0  1288.1    17.3    8,083    18.5   52.8         1.
Pining         4    5.2      439.6    1~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~4.8   1,565    10.9 2.  .         4 .5    128.8     4.5   2,87        8.1  12.       3.0     -     .          -       -          -             -       -       12     4.6      618.5      8.3    3,245     85    3.          .
Bajosti1                  i    4.3      44,7      1.4      198     1.'4   108       35       -     -         -       -           -     -      -                                                                                        4.        447       .6       19      0.4   1093.
Paper/printieg  3    2.9  24.2    0.9  86  0.2    3.1      1.0      7     3.9      33.4     0.8      284      1.8   -        -       2   16.7        8.6      2.3       5    2.2      -        -       11     4.2       68.2     8.9 16.    3862.30.903.1          0.7
Wand t..eed products         4     5,7     169.8     5,4    1,1 69     8.1   09.4   15.        7 0    21.2'    3'60.6    8.2   4,048'   15.8  07.6    18.0        -    -          -                  -     --                       24     92      5.6        71      ,16       18     9.0      24
Leathe                       1    1.4       19.9     0.6       400     2.8    93       3.0      -    -_                           -        -                  -      -            -             -                  -       -               0.4      199       83       400      0.9     8.3      .
Rather                             -                             --                    -        1    0.6         0.2     -          -    -       -        -       1    8.3       26.9     7.3  1,400    48.2   20.0   96.6           2    0.8       27.1      0.4    1,400o       1.2   20.     46
Elertrical aaoia_y.
&qapmen                5    7.1       47.1     1.5       744     5.2     7.6     2.4      2    3.9        17.4     0.4      370      1.4   0.6      0.                          - - -          -             -       -        12     4.,6     60.5      0.9    1,114      2.5     8.2      .
Metal pradarts  1    1.4  14.8  0.5      201      .4    8.3      0.1      8     0.5       73.7     1.9      297      3.0    2.1     2.2     2   16.7       33.018.976102.11-2-                                11     4.2     120.7      1.6    1,059      2.4     2.4     0.
pr- atsl                    1      .8      240--8             38 2.6          30      10      19    1.        1. 13.            ,42      9.   11.9   12.2       -    -           -       -          -    -        -       -        20     7.7     541.5      7.2    2,852     6.4   14.        34
Tcnaspartati-  &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
shipplag                  6    8.6      129.5    4.1        201      1.4    2.8      0.9    29   12.8       228.3      5.7      987     3.6    -       -       2   16.7        29.3     2.8     440    15.2      -       -       31   11.    1387.1        5.2    1,628      3.7     28      06      a
Canstracttne  1    1.4  70.8     2.3       229     1.6    ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~4.8  1.5  7 39  1441.2    36.2   8,80    31.                          -          -           -          -                 8    3.1,  1512.0    28'.1   8,709    19.7         4.8     1.4
products&                  2    2.9       245.4     2.8       256     1.8    -        -       15     8.4     2 18.,2    5.5      598     2.2    1.9     1.9      1    8.3       14.0     3.9       42     1.4     -       -        18     6.9     479.1      6.4      896     2.0      1.9      .
Elecri  lgh
pawer  -    -      -        -           -    -       -       -       ~~~ ~~21    11.7  253.7   6.4      446      1.6    -               -     -          -       ---  -          -                        21     8.0     253.2      3.4       446     1.0     -
Other                        3    4.3       18.5     0.6        18    0.1                      18     5.6      17'6.2    4.4    1692       6.3    3.0     2.0     2   16.7      250.      2.3      976    30.1     -                 5     5.7     445.3      6.0    2,584      5.8     2.      05
Tetal            20  188.0   3,129.0  100.0o14,47  1000 3)14.3   100.0   17  100.0  3,983.2  100.0  27,010)100.0  97.2  100.0   12  100.0                            372.3  100.0  2.904  100.0    20.7  100.0    261  100.0  7,484.5   8.    421 10.    3.    0.
By Reglan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                                                                                                                      10.  421LO-  3.  0-
llneos               ~~~~~~         ~~~2 2.8  50.1  1.8    1,129  7.9   31.6   10.1      7    39       120        4.1      52      2.2    6.0     6.2     -     -          --                                       -         9    3.4      217.1      2.9   1.711      3.9    37.6      9.7
Eagoyas Vally                      -          .  -        -             -      -                 3    1.7  1,4005.8   35.0    8,183    30.3   -                                   -       -          -     ---                       3    1.1  1,005.9    118.8    8,183    18.5        -       -
Castro] Leone        ~6    8.6      11.98     3.7    1,538    10).7   21.5      6.8     27    9.5      188.4      0.7    3,462     2.    8.8       .                                                                        23      .8.     304.3     4.1    5,003    11.      30.3      7.0
Onatereloulog               13  1.6  1,093.8         5.    2,969    20.:7   02.8   13.6    40    22.3         722.6   18.1   3,30        12.2  16.7       7.      1    93         56      15        20     0.7     -                 4   780.2  1,832.0    20.3   6,290    14.:2,   59.    1.
Netr- ManIla                28   40.0      7 50.59   24.0   4,144    28.9   33.9   10.8    46   257            582.3    14.6   3,18      11.    11.8    12.2      8    66.      280       73     ,23       0.     2.7 100.0         82    3. 1,08            2.6     949        18     6.5      54
Nice1                              i.e.     39.2     1.         RI    8.6      1.8    0.8       2      .1       13.2     0.3      98      35      2.      21      -    -                  --               - --                      3    1.1       51.4      0.7    1,029     2.3      3.8      .
Western Ols-ya               2    2.8       32.5     1.0       517     3.6     7.      2.4      9     5.0       71.2     1.8   1,084      4.0    4.5      0.6     -                                        -       -       -        I      4.2     13.7       1.4    1602       3.6    12.0      .
tentral Eleapan      6    8~~ ~~6 10.0        3.2       18      14    327      1.4       6      .4      963         4.     309     1.     -       -        -    -                  -          -     --                       12    3.6      176       26        54      15     3.         .
Easen   syn                  1     14       1.        .          9     05      14      84        1    0.6        5.4     0.1        -    -        1.1     1.1     -                                                                        0.9      20.0      0.3       69    0.7       2.5     0.
Western Mled...                    -         -       -                  -          -             4    2.2       30.4    0).8      024      1.6  10.5   10.8                                                                          4             1.5  34.4   .       424      0.9   105       2.
N-r.ee   M -ndna             7   10.       657.7   21.0    1,63   13.0   69.7   22.2    II            6.1      786       58      ,10       7.8   8.5      88      2   16.7       73.0     8.9       61    2.1      -                20     7.7     919.9l   12.3   4,074,    5.        78.    1.
Snnitse-  Miedaaa            4    5.7      269.3     8.6    1842    12.7   71.4   22.7    16    9.9            17.7. ,58                  65 2.           2.          3                                    -       -       -        2       .      448.       6.0   3,601       8.1    98.      76 o
Ceuca  mtlad--a              -     -         -        -           -    --  -                     8    4.5      177.0     4.4      644      2.4    06      0.6     -     -                                  -       -        -        8    3.1      17.        2.4      64       1.51    0.6      .
Nat I inad                   -     -         -       -           --                    -        9     5.0      11 6. 9   2.9    1,0 29    3.8   -         -       1    8.3       45.2   17.5       500    17.2                       I   0  3.0    '6167.6    .2.    1,548      3.5     -       -
metal                   78  100.0   3129.0  100.0  14,347  108.8  314.3  100.0   129  100. 03,983.2  100. 0  27,010  100. 0  97.2  10.                        210._7.3 100 2,0_0.    20.7   10.4                               76   100._7,84.5   1 00.  4426    100   43.                 0.



IN5IISTRIAL, FINANCE PONETFCT
Chaacerinin  o  SI   uhpolcnnFluned finder lan   Loas-
Numb-r of projects /h                                     Total prole,t cent                                          EoPlay-oft genera.te8                                           0eort .aI..
IGLF                                         ImO oa  ITFIp                                     TRotl                 ICUE                I1               Total               TICU                  lO                 Tta
No..            No..              No.        .      P 1000       2      P '000       %        0  1f0     27         10o.        V       No.        ~.                 3,      0n 0oo0                        l ~       'Il
Ilicon                16      2.6      1112     5.5      119      4.8     4,941       1.2    35,804       3.7       40,745       2.9        361     2.1    1,382        4.7  1,7453I.P              2,077      2,0    11,870        4.6    11,5s5        4.1
11    - Cagoyan Valley           1     0.2       74      3.9       75      3.0        606      0.2    27,307       2.8       20,093       2.0         3A     11.7       519     1.0        595      1.3           -     -        3,S21       1.11     3,171      1.0
III  - Ce-tra   L ...          67    11.0       246    13.1       313    12.5    39,156        9.4   132,738    13.6        171l,094    17.4    1900q    11.0    3,135    11.0    5,574    11.0    17,691    1'.1    11,4AI                  6.2    20,122       7.0
1IV    - Oet-  Manila         249    40.2       410    21.9       650    26.5  209,700    50.3   546,0,20    31.6           5.56,156    44.117,311043.30Q,02033.A   17,242    57.1    74,133                           71.0   IIS,W0    46.0   10(1,010    1 3.4
IV-a - South. Tagatog          96    15.5       214    11.1       311    12.1    65,205    15.6   157,233    16.2           222,430    16.1    2,019    16.7    3,9P5    10.4    5,0114    12.7              4,0        4.4    40,301       19.3    52,003    1440
p     - Bi-Il                   25     4.0       781    4.2       103      4.1    12,649       3.11    20,091      2.1        32,246      7.4       666      3.9    1,379        4.7    2,015       1,4      4,112      3,0    17,560        0.0    74,400        6.0
VI    - Aent. Vimay50          55      0.9      175      0.3      230      9.2    25,756       5.1    61,887       6,.1      0 4,643      6.1    1,276       7.3    2,473       0.7    3,640        7.0      1,705       1.2    23,100       q,2    74,053        7,0
VII  - Cent. vlnaYas           59      9.5      170      9.5      237      9.5    36,273       0.7    66,507       6.0      1012,700      7.4    1,317       7.0    ,7,40       0,3    4,066        0.7      1,131      3.0      3,7         I.2      7,150       7,0
01I1 - Cat. llsaYuu              5     11.0      41      2.2       46      1.0      1,490      0.3    15,701       1.6        17,204      1.2         54     013       506      7.11       650      1.4                          7 ,R20      1.1      7,020      0.0
'C    - len. Miod-.             4      11.6      61      3.5       65      2.6     2,325       0.6    24,R991      2.6       27,215       2.11      162      1.0       011      2,0        0011     7.1           -              P ,1119     2.9      0,010      2.5
I        N. 'trh. Minda...    10       2.9      161      0.6      179      7.2     0,769       2.1    36,313       3.2       45,1197      3.2        54      3.2    1,252        4.7    1,207       5.0           -     -60)    -CI 
XI     S-Soth. Miod.a.A   19           3.1       99      4.7      100      4.3    10,262       2.5    33,931       3.5       44,193       3,2       3311     1.9       01?       2.0    1,102       2.1        77       011.        537      11.2        750      0.2
XIII    Cent. Mind....           6     11.9      44      2.3       50      2.0     2,420       0.6    13,046       1.4        70,374      1.2         06     El5    1,044       3.5    1,130        2.4           -     -           005       .,2       6115      0.2
Totsl             ~~~620   1011.0  1,7    100.11   249    100.0  416,667   1011.0   973,356   10 1111.           39,02   100.11          011   11111n.0  _20 56'   ill 1  46,469   .1(,    104,705   104. 11  21,4-'  1011.   396,117   10n.0
($-000)                                                               56,306             131,131               197_941                                                                         14, 140             33,I974-             40P,1I23
Average Project cost
(0 -l000)                                                                         672                 519                    557
A-etae i.veo tneot
Per job
(p)                                                                         24,645              32,026                 29,021
(M                                                                           3,330               4,440                  4,042
(a This relates to the f.lloainE  loan   nod iontiLtti...s   Loa   N.. 1120-PH:  DIP a-d I0LF (folly diluhnrnd)I  Loa   N0. 1190-P9  (11T01 .  cop-o t5,   500l  (f,oly cunne)    onI.1573-Pl 11111  -oo -setl,
DBP (data buse.d no co...t-ets made an of June 30, 1980 a--ti.g for uhout 05% of the  lao.  cl.o.neot); Loao No.  17?7-PN:  1T11  (deta ba-ed ouppro"ain  .ad- an        J-,e  0 1001  ucc,nnloePe   702 o
the loon)
/b  Theu-  ..bpr-Joctu  -nlte   to a brud   p-t-n  of sub-et-r  of  -aof-ct-,ing an    eoeIdu-tries.
M -usy 29, 1981



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Comparative Selected Data on Investment Houses Identified
as Potential PFIs as of March 28, 1980
(P million)
Total    Earning      Liquid      Loan        Total         Bank      Net      No. of /a  No of /a
assets   assets       assets   balances    deposits   borrowings  worth    Branches    Staff
Total for all domestic banks              103,126    79,494       30,793      63,158     53,768       33,094      8,428      1,334      37,695
Average for all domestic banks            3,683      2,839       1,100      2,256       1,920        1,182        301         48       1,346
Total for all private banks                69,261    54,047       22,779      40,381     37,087       21,349      6,134      1,124      30,971
Average for all private banks             2,664      2,079         876       1,553      1,426          821        236         43       1,191
Total for preselected private banks        29,089    21,974       10,525      16,017      17,049        7,496     2,562        419      12,154
Average for preselected private banks   3,636        2,747       1,316      2,002       2,131          937        320         52       1,519
Range for preselected banks              712-6,172  549-4,794  214-2,180  436-3,737  424-3,545    85-1,914  159-413    13-122  384-2,884
/a As of December 31, 1979.
Source: SGV, A Study of Commercial Banks in the Philippines, first quarter 1980.
AEPID
January 28, 1981



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Comparative Selected Data on Investment Houses Identified
as Potential PFIs as of December 31, 1979
(P million)
Cash and     Loans,      Investments
Total   due from   Discounts    in bonds and    Equity         Paid in
assets    Banks   and Advances   securities   investments  capital   Net worth
All investment houses                  6,544       753       2,137           1,554          110          534         780
Average all investment houses          545        63         178             130            9           44          65
All investement houses,
excluding PISO and PDCP              5,085       704       1,046           1,312           77          459         660
Average all investement
houses excluding PISO & PDCP       508        70         105             131            8           46          66
Preselected investment houses          3,178       469         776             668           61          197         334
Average all preselected
investment houses                    794       117         194             167           15           49          84
Range: All preselected investment
houses                        550-953   65-177    160-270           39-297         2-35        20-80      43-113
Source: Central Bank.
AEPID
January 28, 1981
(D >C
-J _l



- 161 -
ANNEX 7
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of Proposed Bank Loan /a
(in US$ million)
Commitments               Disbursements
Amount     % /b            Amount      % lb
FY82
July-September, 1981                  7.5      5.0               -         -
October-December, 1981               15.0     15.0               0.5       0.3
January-March, 1982                  20.0     28.3               1.0       1.0
April-June, 1982                     30.0     48.3                1.0      1.7
Subtotal                       72.5      48.3               2.5       1.7
FY83
July-September, 1982                 30.0     68.3               4.0       4.3
October-December, 1982               25.0     85.0               9.0      10.3
January-March, 1983                  15.0     95.0              15.0      20.3
April-June, 1983                      7.5    100.0              20.0      33.7
Subtotal                       77.5    100.0               48.0      33.7
FY84
July-September, 1983                  -      100.0              25.0      48.7
October-December, 1983                -      100.0              27.0      66.7
January-March, 1984                   -      100.0              20.0      80.0
April-June, 1984                      -      100.0              12.5      88.3
Subtotal                        -         -                84.5      90.0
FY85
July-September, 1984                  -      100.0               6.0      94.0
October-December, 1984                -      100.0                3.5     96.3
January-March, 1985                   -      100.0               2.5      98.0
April-June, 1985                      -      100.0                3.0    100.0
Subtotal                        -       100.0              15.0    100.0
Total                         150.0    100.0              150.0    100.0
/a  Assuming the loan would become effective as of June 30, 1981.
/b Percentages are cumulative.
AEPID
January 30, 1981



