Document of             FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3028-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
April 13, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Peso (P)
US$1.00           =   P 7.50
P 1                  US$0.133
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          =  Asian Development Bank
ADFU         =  Apex Development Finance Unit
Central Bank =  Central Bank of the Philippines
CEO          =  Chief Executive Officer
DBP          =  Development Bank of the Philippines
DFCs         =  Development Finance Companies
IGLF         =  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
PDCP         =  Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PFIs         =  Participating Financial Institutions
PISO         =  Private Investments Systems Organization
SMI          =  Small and Medium Industries
UNDP         =  United Nations Development Programne
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Central Bank of the Philippines
Guarantor:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:       Participating financial institutions (PFIs)
Amount:            $150 million equivalent
Terms:             The loan would be for 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 9.6% p.a.
Relending
Terms:           The proceeds of the loan would be relent by the Central Bank
to PFIs at an interest rate at least equal to the interest
rate charged by the Bank on the proposed loan, plus a
service fee of not less than 3/4 of 1% p.a. The PFIs would,
in turn, relend to end users at their borrowing cost plus a
margin not exceeding 4.5%; the final subborrowers would bear
the foreign exchange risk. Based on the Bank's present
lending rate of 9.6%, the cost to the final subborrowers
would be close to 15%, which is in line with the current
market rate for such funds. The Central Bank's lending rate
to PFIs would be reviewed every six months and, if neces-
sary, revised to keep the ultimate cost to the final subbor-
rowers in line with the market rate; the maximum margin of
4.5% allowed to PFIs would, however, remain unchanged. The
Central Bank would charge PFIs a commitment charge of not
less than 3/4 of 1% p.a. on the undisbursed portion of PFI
loans; the PFIs would pass on the commitment charge to their
subborrowers.
Project
Description:    The proceeds of the loan would be onlent, through a
specially created Apex Development Finance Unit (ADFU) in
the Central Bank, to accredited financial institutions,
PFIs, to finance economically and financially viable
projects in the industrial sector. Apart from resource
transfer, the project would support the Government's
financial and industrial reforms and would assist a wider
number of financial institutions, including commercial
banks, to participate in development projects and provide
term financing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The capacity of ADFU to carry out its intended functions
and to evolve into a strong, development-oriented
institution would be critical to the success of the
project. The possibility of ADFU's failure to develop
reasonable standards constitutes the principal risk.
However, the Government-s commitment to industrial and
financial sector reforms, ADFU's reasonably strong
management, staff training and technical assistance
included in the project, together with other safeguards
built into the project would help ensure ADFU's
effectiveness and help minimize these risks.
Financing Plan:                                        $ million
Total foreign exchange resource
requirement for relending;            250
of which:
Bank loan                         150
Commercial borrowings             100
Estimated                             Bank FY:   1982        1983    1984       1985
Disbursements:                                  ----------- $ million --------
Annual                          2.5      48.0    84.5       15.0
Cumulative                      2.5      50.5   135.0    150.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3331-PH, dated April 7, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOIMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN FOR AN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
TO THE CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Central Bank of the Philippines with the guarantee of the
Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $150.0 million to support
the Government's financial sector reforms and the Philippines industrial
development. The loan proceeds would be channelled through a broad range of
participating financial institutions (PFIs) by a newly-established Apex
Development Finance Unit (AFDU) in the Central Bank. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.6% p.a.
The proceeds of the proposed loan would be relent by the Central Bank (ADFU)
at an interest rate at least equal to the interest rate charged under this
loan plus a service fee of not less than 3/4 of 1% p.a. The PFIs would in
turn relend to end users at their borrowing cost plus a margin not exceeding
4.5%; the final subborrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
Central Bank-s lending rate to PFIs would be reviewed every six months and,
if necessary, revised to keep the ultimate cost to the final subborrowers
close to the market rate. The Central Bank would charge PFIs a commitment
charge of not less than 3/4 of 1% p.a. on the undisbursed portion of PFI
loans; PFIs would pass on the commitment charge to their subborrowers. An
additional amount of about $100 million would be raised from international
commercial sources. UNDP has agreed to provide $0.4 million for technical
assistance purposes to the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in May/June 1979, and
its report, entitled "The Philippines: Domestic and External Resources for
Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
Sec-M79-822 dated November 16, 1979. An industrial sector report, entitled
"Industrial Development Strategy and Policies in the Philippines" (No. 2513-
PH) was distributed on the same date. A related financial sector report,
entitled "The Philippines: Aspects of the Financial Sector" (No. 2546-PH),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 12, 1979.
Introduction
3.        Despite the deterioration in the Philippines' terms of trade and
the sharp cyclical fluctuations in the international economy during the 1970s,
better economic management made possible considerable improvements in the rate
and structure of the country-s economic growth. The trend growth rate of GNP



was accelerated from 5% to 6%. The ratio of fixed investment to GNP was
raised from 16% in the early 1970s to nearly 25% at the end of the decade,
and the export growth rate increased. Although the level of domestic
savings rose substantially, high foreign borrowing was still necessary to
help finance the acceleration of growth and investment and to provide time
for orderly adjustments to reduce the large balance of payments deficits
experienced after the 1973-74 energy crisis. The public sector played a
much more dynamic role in stimulating development in the 1970s, and the
performance of the agriculture sector was also quite good.
4.        However, some difficult longstanding problems remain to be tackled
more intensely in the 1980s, and new development issues are emerging. The
most important of these are further slowing of the population growth rate,
acceleration of employment creation, and alleviation of widespread poverty.
In addition, the 1979 oil price increase and international recession have
significantly tightened the balance of payments constraint facing the
Philippines. Hence, a major structural adjustment effort is necessary if
the country is to continue to make reasonable progress towards its development
objectives. An increase in the efficiency of investment, reduced dependence
on imported oil, and improved performance of the manufacturing sector will be
critical to the success of the adjustment process and the development effort.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.        More Dynamic Role of the Public Sector.  The public sector had
historically played a relatively passive role in the development of the
Philippine economy and had claimed a much smaller share of national resources
than in many other developing countries. In the late 1960s, general govern-
ment expenditures averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly
low at about 2% of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government
expenditures were dominated by general administration and social services.
6.        The public sector assumed a much more important and dynamic role in
the 1970s. Both the overall level of expenditures and the shares going to
economic services and public investment were raised dramatically. By the end
of the decade, government expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and
public investment equaled about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion brought about
badly needed improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in transpor-
tation, power, and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the fields of urban and rural development, health and family
planning.
7.        At present, the size of the public investment program is appro-
priate. Its composition is, with a few exceptions, broadly consistent with
the country s development priorities. However, as resource constraints are
likely to be tight during the next decade, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.



- 3 -
8.        The rapid expansion of public expenditure has been made possible
by a program of systematic tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on international
trade has been reduced, and the proportion of revenue coming from domestic
taxes has been increased. The domestic sales tax has been restructured to
improve its progressiveness. Numerous increases have also been made in excise
taxes, both to raise revenues and increase the progressivity of the indirect
tax system. Overall, the tax ratio was raised by more than two percentage
points during the 1970s. Although revenue performance was thus quite buoyant,
this buoyancy resulted from a series of annual packages of new tax measures
and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection
performance. The elasticity of the revenue system to GNP growth is still
below unity. Consequently, continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by
the Government and government corporations, will be necessary to allow for
further expansion in infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms
are needed to raise the tax system's elasticity, to improve its equity by
increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to reduce
distortions in economic incentives.
9.        Population.  The Philippine family planning program now registers
approximately 650,000 /1 new acceptors per year. The estimated proportion of
married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased from
15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, the number of new acceptors has reached
a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of reaching
rural areas.
10.       In part because of the more active family planning efforts during
the 1970s, the population growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period
1960-70 to 2.8% in the intercensal period 1970-75. It is currently estimated
at about 2.4% per annum./l Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still
straining available land resources, aggravating already serious employment and
poverty problems, and burdening the public budget with a high growth rate of
demand for basic services. Further reduction of the population growth rate is
therefore vital for the country's future economic development.
11.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation in performance among subsectors, the trend growth rate of
the agricultural sector as a whole was about 5% during the 1970s, which by
international standards is quite high. Increased support for agricultural
production has been provided through improved price policy and credit, exten-
sion, and irrigation programs. Expanded rural development programs such as
water supply, electrification and health have also been initiated. With
the spread of irrigation and high-yield varieties, rice production from
irrigated areas has expanded strongly. The Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, actually exported about 1% of rice production in
/1 These figures differ from those shown in Annex I as they are based on
more recent data.



- 4 -
the last two crop years. With the completion of the large irrigation projects
now under construction, continued rice self-sufficiency appears assured for
the 1980s. An agrarian reform was instituted in 1972 to transfer holdings of
rice and corn land in excess of seven hectares to tenant farmers and to
replace sharecropping with leaseholding on remaining tenanted holdings.
Production of nontraditional export crops such as bananas and coffee has also
expanded rapidly.
12.        On the other hand, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is
necessary for raising the incomes of the rural poor in nonirrigable areas, has
lagged behind. Population pressure on the arable land is steadily increasing,
and soil erosion is a serious problem in hilly areas that have been logged
over or settled. Locally adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed
grains, particularly corn, are still under development. Productivity in the
coconut sector is relatively low because of a large number of overaged trees,
although a replanting program is scheduled to start in the early 1980s when a
sufficient number of high-yielding variety seedlings will become available.
Solutions of the interrelated problems of low incomes and soil erosion in the
settled hilly areas will require development of new tree cropping and mixed
farming technologies, resolution of difficult land tenure questions, and
substantial upgrading of the administrative capabilities of the agencies
concerned. Although progress in rainfed agriculture is likely to be slow
because of the difficult technical and institutional issues that need to be
solved, it is essential if the benefits of development are not to bypass a
significant percentage of the population.
13.        Industry and Energy.  Two of the economy's critical structural
weaknesses are in industry and energy. Despite some improvements in
industrial and trade policies in the early 1970s, the rate and pattern of
industrial growth has remained unsatisfactory and continues to be a major
cause of the Philippines- economic problems. The structural weaknesses of
the industrial sector and the steps taken by the Government to correct the
situation are discussed in Part III of this Report.
14.       At the start of the 1970s the Philippine economy was almost
completely dependent on imported oil for energy. Since 1974, considerable
effort has been made to reduce dependence upon imported oil through both
energy conservation and the development of alternative domestic energy
resources. Increases in world oil prices have been fully passed on to
consumers, and gasoline taxes and electricity tariffs have been raised to
restrain demand.  Consequently, the growth rate of energy consumption has
been held two percentage points below that of GDP. Measures to diversify
energy supply have included the development of hydroelectric, geothermal,
coal, and nuclear energy. More importantly, limited domestic petroleum
production was started in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period
of energy projects, total domestic energy production still constituted only
15% of total commercial energy consumption at the end of the decade. An
energy sector mission visited the Philippines in June 1980 and its draft
report is to be discussed with the Government in May of this year.



15.       Savings and Financial Sector Development.  Both public and private
savings performance improved considerably during the last decade. Gross
domestic savings expanded from 20% of GNP in the early 1970s to the present
level of 24% of GNP, financing about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign sources (investments and borrowings). The
Philippine financial system is relatively well-developed and in recent years
has become increasingly sophisticated. However, some important issues
concerning the mobilization and allocation of financial resources are being
or are expected to be tackled in the 1980s. These issues and policy
measures adopted by the Government are discussed in Part III of this report.
16.       Balance of Payments.  The "second oil crisis" has had a major
impact on the balance of payments. The increase in oil prices since 1978 has
added about $1.4 billion (3.5% of 1980 GNP) to the import bill for an
approximately constant volume of oil imports. The current account deficit
widened from $1.0 billion annually during the period 1976 to 1978 (4-5% of
GNP) to $1.6 billion (5.4% of GNP) in 1979, and an estimated $2.2 billion
(6.1% of GNP) in 1980. The debt service ratio, however, actually fell from
about 19% in 1978 to 17% in 1979 and 1980. This resulted from two circum-
stances. First, during the favorable borrowing conditions prevailing in
1978 and the first half of 1979, the Government was able to refinance or
restructure about $2.1 billion of the $5.5 billion external debt outstanding
at end-1977. Second, receipts from exports of goods and services have
recently been growing rapidly, from $4.7 billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in
1979 and an estimated $8.0 billion in 1980. This has arisen from the strong
performance of nontraditional manufactured exports, the recovery of prices
for export commodities, such as sugar and copper, and the growth of earnings
from services such as tourism and overseas employment.
Development Strategy and Key Issues for the 1980s
17.       The Philippines development strategy was set out in a Five-Year
Development Plan for the period 1978-82.  The Plan's major objectives are
(a) to accelerate the rate of growth of GNP first to 7% and then to 8%; (b)
to generate sufficient productive employment opportunities for the rapidly
growing labor force; (c) to provide for the basic needs of the population;
and (d) to reduce social, regional, and economic disparities.  The Plan's
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, agricultural diversifica-
tion, and stronger linkages between agriculture and industry.  Its indus-
trial strategy calls for further processing of domestic raw materials,
accelerated employment generation by small- and medium-scale industries, and
selected large-scale projects. The projected current account deficit is to
be restrained to manageable levels by, inter alia, aggressive export
expansion and domestic energy development. The Plan also includes social
development targets in education, housing, health, and family planning.
18.       The Plan's objectives and strategy are still broadly appropriate,
and its quantitative targets were reasonable given the assumptions about the
external environment prevailing at the time of its drafting. However, in



- 6 -
light of adverse external developments, the growth targets subsequently have
had to be revised downwards to about 6% p.a., and adjustment policies need
to be strengthened. Furthermore, as stated earlier, the Philippine economy
still suffers from a number of fundamental long-standing development
problems which need to be addressed during the 1980s. Efforts to improve
economic performance will need to concentrate upon employment creation,
poverty alleviation, the efficiency and labor intensity of investment and
structural adjustment in the balance of payments.
19.       Employment Creation.  The economy has not generated sufficient
productive employment opportunities for the labor force, which is growing at
4% per year. Due to the slow expansion of industrial employment, an exces-
sively high proportion (85%) of additional labor has been absorbed by the
agriculture and service sectors. This has resulted in a low or even declining
value-added per worker in some areas and subsectors and has held down the
overall growth of labor income since manufacturing employment is, on aver-
age, much more productive than that in other sectors. With the exhaustion
of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the exploitation of
the most irrigable areas, the agriculture sector will be able to absorb only
about 40%, or 250,000, of the 600,000 annual entrants to the labor force in
the 1980s. Manufacturing will have to provide employment for at least
150,000 of the other 350,000 new workers, a sharp contrast to the annual
average of only 40,000 jobs created in the manufacturing sector during the
1970s.
20.       Poverty Alleviation.  For historical reasons, income distribution
in the Philippines is highly skewed, and there is a small elite which is
conspicuously wealthy. The incidence of poverty has declined in recent
decades but is still about 40% and malnutrition is relatively widespread.
Regional disparities are also pronounced, with the incidence of poverty
reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. During the last two
decades, population pressure has led to an increasingly unfavorable man/land
ratio and an expansion of cultivation into marginal lands with lower
productivity. It has also increased landlessness and accelerated migration
into urban areas. Both of these factors, in combination with the limited
productive employment opportunities in the modern sector, have put downward
pressure on urban and rural real incomes. Real wages fell at the start of
the decade as part of an adjustment necessary to restore external balance
and have remained comparatively low since then because of the deterioration
in the external terms of trade and inadequate employment creation. Hence,
despite relatively high overall economic growth of 6% per annum, no signi-
ficant reduction was achieved in the incidence of poverty during the 1970s.
The key elements in an attack on the country's poverty problem will be a
rapid expansion of manufacturing employment, development of rainfed
agriculture, more balanced regional development, continued improvement in
basic public services, and a further reduction in the population growth rate.



21.       Efficiency and Labor Intensity of Investment.  Private and public
investment have risen sharply during the last decade, and both are now at
levels appropriate for a country with the Philippines per capita income and
resource endowment. The expansion in the economy s real output has, how-
ever, been low relative to the high level of fixed capital formation in the
1970s. The Philippines has an incremental capital/output ratio about 35%
higher than neighboring Asian countries that have roughly comparable pat-
terns of investment. In addition, as noted earlier, the rate of nonagricul-
tural job creation has been inadequate, indicating that, overall, investment
has not been labor-intensive enough.
22.       Consumption needs to grow moderately rapidly if the poverty prob-
lem is to be addressed and continuation of the prolonged containment of real
wages is not to generate unbearable social stress. Hence, the scope for
generating additional domestic savings by constraining consumption growth is
limited. Since reliance on foreign savings needs to be reduced, it is not
realistic to aim at further substantial increases in the investment rate.
Consequently, it will be the efficiency and the labor intensity of
investment that will be the critical determinants of the growth in output
and employment. A primary cause of low investment efficiency and low labor
intensity has been the distortive effects of past trade, industrial, and
financial policies on the allocation and use of capital by domestic market-
oriented manufacturing and service industries.  Furthermore, as the public
investment program rises during the next decade to levels at which resource
constraints become increasingly important, greater attention will have to be
devoted to questions of the efficiency of infrastructure investment.
23.       Adjustments in the Balance of Payments.  The current account
deficit is expected to remain at about 6% of GNP in 1981. Assuming the
Government continues to implement effective adjustment policies (see Part
III), it would decline to about 5% of GNP in 1983 and less than 4% of GNP
by 1985. The external capital requirements for 1981 are estimated at about
$2.5 billion and are expected to rise to about $4.0 billion by 1984. In
1980, the Philippines received ODA commitments of $1.1 billion. The recent
Consultative Group Meeting, held in Paris in January of this year, agreed
that it would be reasonable for the Philippines to seek official aid of
about $1.2 billion during 1981. It is expected that official sources would
provide about 40% of the Philippines gross external capital requirements
annually during the 1980s. If the Philippines can sustain the strong export
performance of the recent past, the debt service burden should remain
manageable despite the heavy commercial borrowing requirements of the years
ahead; the debt service ratio is expected to remain in the range of 18%-20%
to 1985.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
24.       To date, the Philippines has received 74 Bank loans (of which
two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,665.7 million and six IDA
credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $103.6 million.
The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding is
currently about 15% and its share in total debt service is about 7%. These
ratios are expected to be about 13% and 9%, respectively, by 1985. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
February 28, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastruc-
ture, which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group
lending. In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irriga-
tion system to increase food production and to credit programs to support
foodgrain production and processing, livestock, fisheries and tree farm-
ing production. Support has also been provided for integrated rural devel-
opment projects in low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large
amounts of assistance in developing power and transportation to provide the
basis for future growth of the productive sectors and development outside
Metro Manila. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure has been
needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low levels of
public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank initially concen-
trated on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. More recently, greater emphasis has been
placed on policy reforms through structural adjustment lending (see paras.
33-36).
26.       Execution of Bank-financed projects has improved markedly in the
1970s compared with the experience of the late 1960s, when shortages of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration caused serious problems. While
ongoing projects are being implemented reasonably well, adminstrative
problems resulting from the acceleration of inflation and the need to
maintain tight control on expenditures have caused some delays in project
implementation, and disbursements have been slower than anticipated. A
Project Implementation Review was held in May 1980, and steps are being
taken to correct the procedural problems.
27.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan (1978-82) highlights a strategy which focuses on the
expansion of production and employment in agriculture and industry,
reduction in income disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and
energy, and increased development in rural areas. A recent revision to the
Plan recognizes the need for undertaking structural adjustments as well as



- 9 -
continuing prudent demand management, with a revised trade regime to
strengthen the manufacturing sector, and an accelerated energy diversi-
fication program. The Bank's future lending program has been designed to
assist the Government in achieving the objectives of the Plan.
28.       Agricultural and rural development will account for the largest
part of future lending with continued emphasis on food production and
programs to increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. We will
also continue to support projects for education, population and health, and
slum upgrading and low-cost sites and services, particularly in areas
outside Metro Manila. Substantial assistance will be given to industry with
considerable attention given to policy reforms through ongoing and planned
structural adjustment lending, through the proposed loan, and through
subsector loans aimed at rationalizing and restructuring specific sub-
sectors. Emphasis will also be placed on expanding the development of
labor-intensive, small and medium industries outside the Metropolitan Manila
area. Major assistance efforts are planned over the next several years to
support the Government's efforts to develop domestic energy resources, and
to strengthen the institutions responsible for developing and managing
energy supplies.
29.       This is the fourth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for agricultural support
services, the elementary education subsector, and national fisheries
development have been appraised and are scheduled for presentation to the
Executive Directors during the next few months.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR /1 AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
The Industrial Sector
30.       Despite some improvements in industrial and trade policies in the
early 1970s, the rate and pattern of industrial growth has remained unsatis-
factory and continues to be a major cause of the Philippines' economic prob-
lems. Rather than being a dynamic leading sector, manufacturing grew rela-
tively slowly during the last decade at 6.5% p.a., about the same rate as
total GDP. The majority of industries are highly protected and produce
only for the domestic market. Since the early 1950s, manufacturing employ-
ment has grown slowly, instead of providing job opportunities for an increas-
ing share of the labor force, and has remained constant at about 10-12% of
total employment. Efficiency of investment is also low, and manufacturing
industry is heavily concentrated in the Metro Manila area.
31.       Historically, the industrial sector has been a large net burden
on the balance of payments, relying heavily on imported equipment and
/1 The industrial sector is normally defined to include mining and quarry-
ing, construction, public utilities and manufacturing. The last of
these is the focus of this chapter.



- 10 -
intermediate goods but exporting very little. Successful steps were taken
during the early 1970s to promote such nontraditional manufactured exports
as garments, electronics, footwear and handicrafts. Nontraditional
manufactured exports increased rapidly during the decade and currently
account for nearly a third of the country's total merchandise exports. As a
result, the rate of employment creation recently appears to have improved
somewhat. However, the export expansion has been concentrated on a few
items, and backward linkages with the rest of the economy have been limited.
Consequently, the nontraditional manufacturing export sector is an
outward-looking enclave in an otherwise heavily protected economy.
32.       Improvement in the performance of the industrial sector is crucial
to the attainment of the Philippines' development objectives. Manufacturing
is the key to accelerating income, employment, and export growth. It is
also important for restraining growth in imports of capital and intermediate
goods and for using capital and foreign exchange resources efficiently, and
for the Government's regional development objectives. Improved efficiency
of resource use in the industrial sector and maintenance of the rapid growth
in nontraditional exports will be critical to the success of the adjustment
effort to meet the economic challenge of the 1980s.
33.       The Industrial Development Program.  Since the late 1960s, there
has been growing awareness in the Philippines of the need to modify the
import-substitution bias in industrial and trade policies of the previous
decades. In the late 1970s, the Government commissioned a number of studies
relating to industrial policy, the results of which indicated that: (a) the
chief causes of poor industrial performance were the highly protective trade
regime and the capital-intensive bias of investment promotion policies; and
(b) several industries needed restructuring. The Government's concern about
the performance of the industrial sector led to the subsequent undertaking
of a Bank industrial sector mission in early 1979, followed by a joint
IMF-Bank financial sector mission, to look at interrelated questions of
banking system reforms and industrial finance. The reports of these two
missions confirmed the findings of the Government's own studies and helped
in the formulation of strategies for industrial and financial sector
development.
34.       The Government recently outlined its industrialization strategy
and policy reform program in a Statement of Industrial Policy for the 1980s
which provided the basis for the Bank's recently approved Structural Adjust-
ment Loan (Loan No. 1903-PH). The policy reform program includes staged
reforms over a five-year period designed to correct the import-substitution
and capital-intensive biases of existing industrial and trade policies, and
covers five major areas: (a) export incentives and promotion measures; (b)
tariff reform and trade liberalization; (c) investment incentives; (d)
industrial restructuring; and (e) major industrial projects.
35.       Since 1979 the Government has adopted a number of measures to
strengthen the export regime. These have included stronger fiscal incen-
tives for export industries, simplified import/export procedures, easier
access to bonded manufacturing warehouses, and financial assistance through



- 11 -
the modification of the Central Bank's rediscount facility for exports and
by empowering the Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation
to guarantee loans to the export sector. The Government also streamlined
and strengthened the institutional setup to support and promote exports. To
this end, the Government reorganized the Ministry of Trade, supported the
establishment of export trading companies and broadened the charter of the
Export Processing Zone Authority to enable it to plan, develop and manage 12
new industrial estates.
36.       The objectives of tariff reforms are to lower the overall level of
protection in the economy and even out the spread in tariff rates within and
between industry sectors. The movement towards greater uniformity in
effective protection rates will reduce allocative distortions and provide a
more rational incentive for genuinely justified import-substitution. The
reduction in the higher rates of protection afforded to some industries
should lead to increases in competitiveness and efficiency and help
strengthen the linkages between home and export industries. Reforms in
investment incentive policies would include removing the capital bias of
fiscal incentives, improving the allocative system, adopting appropriate
policies towards regional dispersion of industry and streamlining
administrative procedures for granting of incentives. Subsectoral
restructuring programs would specify the direction of a subsector's future
development, government policies and the role of the private sector, and the
instruments to help existing industries improve efficiency and otherwise
increase their competitiveness. The Government also plans to establish a
number of economically and financially viable industrial complexes which
would contribute to technological deepening and import-substitution in the
production of intermediate goods. Substantial work has been done in the
areas of investment incentives, industrial restructuring and major
industrial projects; however, any major advance in these areas will take a
number of years to achieve and the progress made will form the basis of
future discussions between the Government and the Bank.
The Financial Sector
37.       The financial sector in the Philippines is relatively well
developed, and, in many respects, has served the country well. The 1973/74
energy crisis and the resulting prolonged deterioration in the terms of
trade were weathered without disturbance to the monetary system. As a result
of a series of reforms adopted in the 1970s, significant improvements were
made in financial policy to increase the efficiency of financial markets in
intermediating between savers and investors. The banking system was
strengthened by increases in capitalization; a sophisticated money market
was developed and a basis was laid for linkages with the international
banking system; there were substantial improvements in the management and
operating standards of institutions; interest rates were realigned to
encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and savings deposits
relative to short-term deposit substitutes and to reduce the spread between
borrowing and lending rates; and special credit programs were introduced to



- 12 -
expand lending to the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and
to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale industries.
38.        The rapid evolution of the financial system in the 1970s resulted
in greater responsiveness of the system to mobilization of savings in finan-
cial form.  Total gross assets of the financial sector grew by 11% p.a. (in
real terms) between 1974 and 1979, while real GNP grew at 7%. The range of
financial assets increased and there was a clear response on the part of the
savers to keep a larger proportion of their savings in financial form.
39.        Gross domestic savings are relatively high in the Philippines and
are presently about 24% of GNP. The Government is aiming at increasing this
rate to 27% over the 1980s to maintain the level of investment while
simultaneously reducing the current account deficit and the country's reliance
on foreign savings. While all sectors are expected to increase their rate of
savings, the household sector share is expected to rise from 9% of GNP in 1978
to over 11% in the 1980s. This will imply the necessity for a marked increase
in the savings effort in a sector which is already financing the greater part
of the country's investment requirements. An increasing proportion of such
savings would need to be made available and intermediated on a longer-term
basis. Long-term peso funds have been particularly scarce in the past and, as
the country continues to industrialize, the needs of the economy for such
longer-term finance will increase.
40.        As the economy has grown in size and complexity, the Government
has become increasingly aware of the need to further reform the financial
system, which has grown in a rather ad hoc fashion, to enable it to respond
better to present and future needs. The tendency towards specialization in
response to specifically identified needs led to the separation of regular
banking activities - the normal task of commercial banks - from investment
banking activities - notably merchandizing, distribution and underwriting of
security issues - and caused considerable fragmentation among institutions.
It reduced competition by segmenting markets and reducing responsiveness of
the system to changing needs and demands. It also did little to lengthen
maturities and promote longer-term lending and borrowing.
41.        At the same time the incentive system has not been geared to mobi-
lize sufficient savings, encourage longer maturities and allocate resources
where they were most needed. Nominal interest rates have been regulated and
during periods of relatively high inflation, as in 1979 and 1980, real rates
have been essentially negative. Low interest rates have been one of the
factors contributing to relatively inefficient and capital-intensive
investment. Lack of flexibility in nominal interest rates has also
inhibited monetary and balance of payments management. Moreover, the
absence of effective differentials between short- and long-term lending
rates inhibited banks from investment in longer-term obligations. The
problems in the interest rate structure were aggravated by the Central
Bank-s complex and numerous rediscounting policies. This has frequently
resulted in encouraging over-investment in some areas while other sectors of
the economy, such as small manufacturing enterprises and housing, were



- 13 -
relatively neglected in the allocation of investment funds. Also, the
absence of "lender-of-last-resort" discounting facilities has accentuated the
liquidity preference of banking institutions, and compelled them to match
the maturities of their assets and liabilities.
42.       Institutions in the Financial System.  The financial system com-
prises the banking sector, consisting of commercial banks, thrift banks,
rural banks, and specialized Government-owned banks, and the nonbanking
sector, comprised of investment houses and finance companies. Commercial
banks, both foreign and domestic, are at the center of the financial system,
commanding over half of the total resources. Thrift banks, with 4% of
total resources, include savings and loan associations, mortgage banks and
private development banks - the latter being small institutions located
outside Metro-Manila   and lending for small- and medium-scale enterprises.
Rural banks, which exceeded 1,000 in 1980, are unitary banks that are
located over a wide geographical area and lend mainly for agriculture. They
account, however, for only 2% of the resources of the financial system. The
major specialized Government financial institution is the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP) which accounts for over 11% of the assets of the
financial system (see paras. 53 and 67). As a result of the statutory
separation of commercial and investment banking under the reforms of 1972,
investment houses were established to provide facilities for equity
financing and underwriting of corporate securities. The total resources of
investment houses at the end of 1979 accounted for only 3% of the resources
of the financial system. Two of the investment houses - the Private
Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) and the Philippine
Investments Systems Organization (PISO) - have been recipients of Bank
assistance in the past (paras. 53 and 66). Finance companies, accounting for
about 5% of the financial system's assets, extend credit to enterprises and
directly to consumers; their main activity is centered around consumer
finance. Finally, there are the social security institutions consisting of
private insurance companies, the Government Services Insurance System and
the Social Security System. The combined assets of these comprise about 16%
of the total assets of the financial system.
43.       The Financial Markets.  The capital market in the Philippines has
not been a significant source of medium- and long-term finance. At present
there are only 196 equity issues listed on the stock exchange (0.5% of all
corporations registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission). For the
development of an effective capital market, a well-articulated regulatory
framework and an incentive-oriented tax regime are needed. In contrast with
the marginal role of the long-term capital market, the short-term money
market has played an important role in the Philippines. In the early 1970s,
the money market grew very rapidly and its volume of business escalated at
an annual rate of 50% during 1974-75; deposit substitutes increased to the
equivalent of about 80% of the total savings and time deposits with
commercial banks. This spectacular growth was made possible by an absence
of control over money market interest rates and consequently the effective
rate on deposit substitutes rose to over 30% p.a., in comparison with the
time-deposit rates of 8% to 11%.  In 1976, however, the Government imposed



- 14 -
a 35% transaction tax on money market transactions and imposed an interest
rate ceiling of 16% on deposit substitutes. These measures have resulted in
a much slower growth rate (5%) of the money market since 1976.
44.       The Financial Sector Reforms of 1980-81.  In the late 1970s, the
Government became increasingly concerned about the future direction of the
financial system and in 1979 commissioned a joint IMF/World Bank study on
the financial sector in the Philippines (para. 33). The study indicated
that a major problem besetting the financial system was that specialization
of functions of financial institutions had led to excessive fragmentation
and inefficiency (para. 40) and recommended that statutory separation of
commercial banking from investment banking should be relaxed. This would
enable the commercial banks (currently holding more than 50% of the
financial system's resources) to provide medium- and long-term credit and to
participate in the underwriting and financing of equity. The study also
recommended changes in interest rates and in monetary and fiscal policies to
sharpen the responsiveness of financial institutions to the needs for
long-term finance. In line with the study's recommendations, the Government
introduced a comprehensive set of banking and financial reforms.
45.       While these reforms did not abolish specialization, they broadened
the scope of operations of each category of institutions. As a first step,
the Monetary Board (the regulatory body of the Central Bank) was authorized
to designate certain institutions (to be called "expanded banks") to parti-
cipate in the underwriting and financing of equity in addition to making
medium- and long-term loans. Expanded banks, combining the investment and
commercial banking functions, are designated on the basis of criteria, among
which an important one is the net worth of the institution. To begin with,
the net worth qualification limit has been set at P 500 million which is
rather high, reflecting the Government's cautious approach to "universal
banking". However, in its Statement of Policy (Annex IV) on the future evo-
lution of the financial sector (para. 52), the Government declared its inten-
tion to make expanded banks more broad-based by encouraging institutional
mergers and consolidation and, if necessary,would lower the net worth quali-
fication limit. This would encourage competition and facilitate accessibil-
ity of equity and term finance to smaller enterprises. However, the defini-
tive action will only be taken after the Government has had sufficient
opportunity to monitor and evaluate the performance of licensed expanded
banks.
46.       Reflecting the same objective of permitting the financial institu-
tions to perform wider functions, thrift banks (para. 42) have been granted
full domestic banking authority, including the opening of checking accounts,
but excluding foreign banking operations. Rural banks (para. 42) may
establish branches and perform most domestic banking functions, except the
establishment of domestic letters of credit. The investment houses can now
undertake trust and foreign exchange operations and their ability to expand
operations has been enhanced by allowing them access to Central Bank dis-
counting facilities. These additional powers will diversify the functions
of existing financial institutions to bring about healthy competition
between the different classes of financial institutions and help in their
wider regional dispersal.



- 15 -
47.       To facilitate term lending, the Central Bank has also revised a
number of monetary policies.  In order to provide liquidity to the banking
system in times of cash stringency and to encourage them to undertake term
transformation for long-term lending, the Central Bank has established a
largely automatic "lender-of-last-resort" facility.  The expanded banks and
commercial banks were provided further encouragement to make long-term loans
by: (a) making, for the first time, long-term bills eligible for Central Bank
discounting; (b) giving discretionary powers to the Monetary Board to reduce,
in appropriate cases, the risk assets to net worth ratio from 10% to 6%; and
(c) abolishing the previous statutory limit which permitted a maximum of 20%
of deposit resources of commercial banks to be used for term financing - the
Monetary Board has been given discretionary powers to prescribe ceilings for
term lending in accordance with the needs of the economy. Finally, to
encourage longer-term deposits, reserve requirements have been fixed at a
nominal rate of 5% for all deposits with original maturities exceeding 730
days; this change will be effective from January 1, 1982.
48.       The third element in the reforms package is fiscal incentives.
The most significant incentive involves a reduction of gross receipts tax on
interest income on loans of longer maturity. Other incentives exempt
expanded banks from tax on dividends earned by them on their equity invest-
ments, and on capital gains arising from mergers and consolidation.
49.       Until 1976, interest rates that could be charged by the banking
system were restricted to a maximum nominal rate of 12% p.a. for loans
secured by real estate mortgage and 14% p.a. for unsecured loans; also, there
was no distinction made between short-term and long-term lending rates.
Between January 1976 and March 1981, the Central Bank made substantial
changes in the interest rate structure, as summarized below:
(a) a distinction is now made between long-term and short-term interest
rates and financial institutions are permitted to charge up to 21%
p.a. on loans of two years' maturity or more and 16% to 18% on loans
of shorter maturity. However, effective July 1, 1981, the interest
rate ceiling for loans of two years' maturity or more will be
abolished;
(b) the interest rate ceiling on deposits of 730 days' maturity or more
has been abolished. In June 1980 a multiplicity of rates was
replaced by a 14% maximum for all deposits of less than 730 days-
maturity. However, effective July 1, 1981, interest rate ceilings
for all types of deposits will be lifted, except demand deposits
which, as is normal, will continue to bear no interest; and
(c) in August 1980, the Government gave financial institutions the
option to charge variable interest rates without any ceiling for
loans having a maturity of four years or more. From July 1, 1981
all loans with maturities of two years or more may carry variable
interest rates. This feature will encourage term transformation as



- 16 -
periodic adjustments in the interest rate will protect "spreads" on
term lending in situations where subsequent changes in deposit rates
increase the cost of funds.
50.       While only short-term lending rates (para. 49(a)) continue to be
regulated, they have been brought more closely in line with market condi-
tions. The Government has also affirmed its adherence to positive interest
rates as an instrument of policy and believes that the deregulation and
flexibility already introduced and in the process of introduction will give
interest rates greater market orientation.  It nonetheless feels that com-
plete deregulation of short-term lending rates may be detrimental to the
interests of the small businesses, newcomers to industry and regional indus-
tries. Also, because of the oligopolistic character of the Philippines'
banking system, this would lead to undue concentration of economic powers by
diversion of funds to the large-scale sector. Given the projected inflation
rates of 14% in 1981, 10% in 1982 and 8% in 1983-86, the present short-term
lending rates are expected to be significantly positive. While the Govern-
ment will seek to maintain positive real lending rates and will periodically
review the interest rate structure, it believes that the basis for such
review should be the long-term underlying trends; frequent changes based on
short-term variations in inflation rates could be destabilizing. In addi-
tion, it is necessary that lending rates of Government financial institu-
tions, particularly DBP, should not be subsidized and should reflect market
rates. This will be consistent with the Government's current interest rate
policy and with the objective of developing a competitive long-term lending
market involving public and private financial institutions. The Govern-
ment's recently issued Statement of Policy (Annex IV) spells out the agree-
ments reached with the Government concerning periodic interest rate review,
the Government financial institutions' lending rates and the establishment
of suitable criteria and an appropriate mechanism for conducting the
interest rate reviews on a regular basis.
51.       Future Evolution.  The financial sector reforms of 1980-81 are an
important step in the continuing process of industrial and financial sector
evolution. The broadening of financial and functional bases of financial
institutions, the steps taken towards a more flexible and market-oriented
interest rate policy, and the adoption of monetary and rediscount policies
conducive to long-term lending, are important milestones. These measures
should assist in mobilizing and channeling resources to meet the financial
needs of industrial development and in enhancing the efficiency of investment.
52.       In recognition of the continuing need to define future directions,
the Government's Statement of Policy sets out its future aims and objectives
in the continuing effort to strengthen the financial sector. Besides ensur-
ing that changes required to keep the financial sector responsive to the
varied needs of a growing economy would be made, it is the Government's
intention to take adequate measures to provide for the credit needs of all
sectors. Particular attention will be paid to the financing of exports, the
small-scale enterprise and housing sectors for which institutional struc-
tures are under consideration, and to the strengthening and broadening of



- 17 -
existing institutional arrangements. Agricultural credit is still narrow in
its scope and inefficient in its dispensation; changes in its structure and a
rationalized institutional system, through which the credit could smoothly and
efficiently flow, will be addressed. As for the capital market (para. 43),
the Government intends to strengthen and streamline the market's network
institutions and regulatorv authorities in order to Dlav an active role in
supporting the financial system. Finally, the government financial institu-
tions will be given greater autonomy in the selection of their portfolio and
efforts will be made to make them less dependent on budgetary funds and more
market-oriented in their operations.
The Bank's Role and Future Industrial Lending Strategy
53.       The Bank's lending to the sector (channeled through The Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP), Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines (PDCP), Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO) and the
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF)) has amounted to nine loans
totalling $398 million, including $110 million allocated specifically for
small- and medium-scale industry (SMI) financing.
54.       In 1978, the Bank reviewed its operational program in the industrial
sector in the Philippines and reached the conclusion that while the Bank's
past lending to individual development finance companies (DFCs) had largely
achieved its institution-building objectives, industrial and financial sector
policy improvements should be the major objectives of future Bank lending./l
The findings and recommendations of the Industrial Sector Study (para. 33)
provided the basis for major changes in industrial and trade policies suppor-
ted by the first Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 1903-PH). In addition,
the Financial Sector Report (para. 44) recommended fundamental changes in the
financial system which were adopted by the Government in 1980 and 1981, and
constitute a satisfactory basis for the proposed loan.
55.       The Bank's future lending program would assist Philippine industrial
development through: (a) a series of structural adjustment loans associated,
inter alia with industrial policy reforms in such areas as tariffs, export
promotion measures and investment incentives; (b) industrial finance
projects to support complementary financial policy and institutional reforms;
(c) individual subsector loans that would assist in the restructuring of
major industries including support initially for textiles and, possibly,
the mechanical engineering subsectors; and (d) broadened institutional support
for employment-creating activities, including particular attention to SMI.
56.       The proposed loan is the first for a series of industrial finance
projects described in para. 55(b) above. Instead of lending directly to the
development finance companies, the Bank's future lending for industrial
financing would be channeled through a specially created Apex Development
/1 The only Project Performance Audit Report for Bank lending within the
sector (No. Sec-M77-360 of April 29, 1977) was on PDCP.



- 18 -
Finance Unit (ADFU) in the Central Bank. As financial institutions in the
Philippines are relatively well-developed, the proposed approach has been
designed to enable the Bank to work more intensively with the Government on
broader sectoral policies. Moreover, by developing the capabilities of ADFU
as a source of term credit for development projects, and by generally dele-
gating its institution-building role to ADFU, the Bank would be able to
assist a larger number of institutions. This is consistent with the thrust
of the recent financial sector reforms which encourage long-term lending by
a greater variety of institutions, particularly the commercial banks.
Finally, the proposed approach allows for the gradual delegation of loan
adminstration responsibilities to the Central Bank and provides for the
strengthening of local capability to carry out these functions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       The project was prepared by the Central Bank of the Philippines
with the assistance of the Bank. The loan was appraised in August/September
1980 and negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., in March 1981. The
Philippine negotiating team was led by the Honorable Cesar E.A. Virata,
Minister of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3331-PH), dated April 7,
1981, is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplemen-
tary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Description
58.       The proposed project reflects the Bank's new approach to industrial
lending in the Philippines. Instead of lending separately to individual
DFCs, as in the past, the Bank would use a two-tier approach. The Central
Bank would be the borrower and would relend the proceeds of the proposed
loan to accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs). In addition
to the DFCs, which have been recipients of Bank financing in the past,
other financial institutions, including commercial banks, with an existing
or prospective capability for long-term lending, would be eligible for
accreditation. The Central Bank would be responsible for identifying new
PFIs and for evaluating and monitoring the performance of all PFIs.
59.       The project funds would be used for financing economically viable
investments which would be generally labor-intensive, export-oriented and
efficient in terms of resource utilization. The project is intended to
finance mainly medium- and large-scale enterprises with assets ranging from
P 15.0 to P 50.0 million ($2.0-6.7 million); smaller enterprises are
being assisted under separate Bank projects. About 170 projects are
expected to receive assistance under the project for their establishment,
expansion or rationalization. To ensure a reasonably wide distribution of
project funds, there would be a ceiling of $6.0 million on the amount of an
individual subloan (Section 2.02(c) (iv) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Central Bank would monitor closely the operations of PFIs to determine
whether the project funds are being used to finance projects that are



- 19 -
consistent with the Government's industrial policy of encouraging industries
which have an inherent economic comparative advantage and need minimum
protection in the home market or can compete effectively in the export market.
Based on the understanding reached with the Central Bank, subprojects with
an economic rate of return of less than 12% would normally not qualify for
financing under this project. A provision to this effect would be included
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (para. 74) between the Central Bank and
accredited PFIs.
Institutional Arrangements for the Project
60.       In consultation with the Bank, the Central Bank has created a sep-
arate unit, the Apex Development Finance Unit (ADFU), with specific respon-
sibility for administering the project.  The primary objective of this unit
is to channel funds for industrial enterprises through suitable financial
institutions capable of undertaking efficient intermediation of medium- and
long-term funds. Detailed operating policy guidelines for ADFU have been
set by the Monetary Board of the Philippines. These guidelines define
ADFU's functions, accreditation criteria for PFIs, eligibility criteria for
projects using ADFU financing, ADFU's policy on procurements, and the nature
of ADFU's relationship with PFIs and with other departments of the Central
Bank. The guidelines adopted by the Monetary Board for ADFU are satisfactory
and in line with the project's objectives.
61.       The Central Bank has taken steps to ensure strong management and
proper staffing for ADFU. Under the overall guidance of the Governor of the
Central Bank, ADFU's management would rest with a Chief Executive Officer
(CEO), assisted by a deputy with the rank of director to handle the day-to-day
operations of the unit. An experienced professional from the private sector
has been appointed as ADFU's CEO and the Central Bank is in the process of
recruiting a suitable candidate for the position of Deputy CEO. Considering
that ADFU is the first organization of its kind in the Philippines and the
Central Bank is still not fully conversant with development banking opera-
tions, the Central Bank has appointed a senior adviser who will assist ADFU
in policy formulation as well as in day-to-day operational matters. The
services of the adviser are being financed for two years by a UNDP project,
with the Bank acting as Executing Agency.
62.       Including the CEO, a total of 10 professionals out of 20 established
positions have so far been appointed to the ADFU; four of these were recruited
from the private sector. Additional staff (including some economists) of
suitable caliber, will, however, be needed to cope with ADFU's future workload
as it expands. The Central Bank recognizes the need to develop ADFU's staff
skills as well as those of accredited and potential PFIs through training
programs, both on-the-job and formal. For this purpose UNDP financing,
totalling $150,000, is available. The Central Bank's plans for recruitment
of additional staff and organization of training programs will be reviewed
in the context of the UNDP Project (para. 61) and completion of recruitment,
including the Deputy CEO, and finalization of the training program are
expected by September 30, 1981.



- 20 -
The Accreditation System
63.       The accreditation process involves a comprehensive evaluation of an
applicant institution by ADFU, with a view to assessing its suitability to act
as an efficient intermediary for industrial financing. The basic criteria for
this evaluation are set out in ADFULs operating policy guidelines (para. 60).
They are: (a) sound financial position and performance and a satisfactory
portfolio; (b) appropriate operating policies and procedures, and a develop-
ment-oriented strategy for future operations; and (c) an organization, manage-
ment and staff with the requisite expertise to undertake term lending opera-
tions. Final accreditation of a PFI, based on ADFU recommendations, rests
with the Monetary Board.
64.       While both privately- and government-owned financial institutions
meeting the accreditation criteria are eligible to become PFIs, private sector
institutions would be accorded priority in line with the Government's policy
of promoting term financing by the commercial banks and other private
financial institutions. Government-owned PFIs are required to be commercially
oriented in their selection of subprojects. In exceptional cases, where
financing was done at Government behest, the Government, rather than the
institutions, would assume any financial loss that may arise. They would also
be required to lend on terms (and, in particular, at interest rates)
comparable to those applied by private sector financial institutions to avoid
subsidy and to promote the development of the long-term lending market by
private institutions (para. 50). The Bank would review ADFU-s evaluation
reports on PFIs, and the related draft Subsidiary Loan Agreements; final
accreditation would be subject to Bank concurrence (Section 1.02(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
65.       As an initial step in the accreditation, ADFU has carried out an
evaluation of three major term lending institutions, viz., DBP, PDCP and PISO,
to which the Bank has previously provided loans. In addition to these three,
ADFU has identified eight commercial banks and four investment houses as
potential PFIs. ADFU will evaluate these institutions, but, considering its
limited initial capacity and staff and financial resources, it envisages
accrediting only two or three initially. However, after ADFU has established
a satisfactory working relationship with the accredited PFIs and as its
operational capacity and financial resources increase, additional institutions
will be considered for accreditation.
The Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
66.       The three institutions evaluated by ADFU (para. 65), and recomr
mended by it for accreditation, have benefitted considerably from the Bank's
institution-building assistance. ADFU's evaluation showed the two
privately-owned institutions, PDCP and PISO, to be generally in compliance
with the accreditation criteria (para. 63). ADFU has, however, identified
certain areas in need of improvement; an increase in paid-in capital, a
strengthening of supervision aspects and an improvement in geographical



- 21 -
distribution of lending. These issues are within the capabilities of PDCP
and PISO to resolve. Resolution on these institutional issues between ADFU
and the PFIs would be a precondition for their accreditation and any
agreements reached would be included in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(para. 74).
67.       DBP, a government-owned development bank, is by far the country's
largest supplier of long-term credit. Since 1972, when the Bank first
appraised it, DBP has made significant progress in improving its policies,
organization, staffing, operating procedures and finances. These improvements
enabled DBP to significantly expand its operations from P 50 million ($6.7
million) a year in 1971 to about P 2 billion ($267 million) annually since
1975. Notwithstanding these improvements, DBP continues to face a number of
organizational, operational and financial problems, to which there are two
main contributing factors. Firstly, because of its large magnitude, DBP-s
portfolio remains highly susceptible to cyclical fluctuations in the economy,
particularly because the industrial sector has yet to overcome its structural
weaknesses. Secondly, as the financing arm of the Government, DBP has been
called upon to make loans/investments at the behest of the Government which
have sometimes not proved to be commercially viable, but were deemed important
by the Government on socio-economic grounds. Under the latest Bank loan to
DBP, the Government agreed to take steps to: (a) protect DBP against
potential losses arising from Government behest loans, and (b) help DBP sell
its large investments in three specific companies. The Government has taken
some action to fulfill these commitments but some additional steps need to be
taken.
68.       In order to be accredited with ADFU, DBP would be required to agree
to an "Action Program" which would spell out the steps to be taken in
addressing its remaining institutional and financial problems; some elements
of the Action Program would be implemented before actual accreditation.
These efforts will include, inter alia: (a) a review, to be conducted by
independent consultants, of DBPs portfolio of large and problem projects to
determine the quality of the portfolio and to take appropriate remedial
measures based on the findings of the review; (b) adoption of more intensive
measures to improve DBP's loan collection performance; (c) further review and
upward adjustments in DBP-s peso lending rates taking into account DBP-s
marginal borrowing cost, overhead expenses and the need to make DBP-s lending
terms consistent with the Government's current interest rate policy;
(d) adoption of appropriate policies on refinancing assistance given to DBP's
clients; and (e) reorganization of its Industrial Projects Department to
improve the department's operational efficiency, particularly in respect of
project supervision. Satisfactory resolution of DBP-s operational and
financial problems would require the active support of the Government,
including satisfactory resolution of the issues relating to government behest
loans and investments. The longer-term objective of DBP would be to reduce
its reliance on government budgetary support. A comprehensive Action Program
has been formulated and agreed with the Government. DBP-s continued access to
ADFU funds would be subject to satisfactory implementation of the Action



- 22 -
Program. These conditions will form part of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(para. 74) between the Central Bank and DBP.
Relationship Between ADFU and PFIs
69.       In line with the basic objectives of the project, the Bank would
delegate to ADFU substantial institution-building responsibilities relating to
PFIs. In addition to evaluating the suitability of PFIs for accreditation,
ADFU would monitor their post-accreditation performance to ensure compliance
with the accreditation criteria, the soundness of their portfolio and their
adherence to the agreed lending criteria. ADFU, through its monitoring of
PFIs, would also ensure that the supervision of subprojects is being
effectively carried out by PFIs. However, until such time as ADFUTs staff has
acquired the necessary expertise and capacity, the Bank would closely monitor
ADFU's supervision of the PFIs and, if necessary, Bank staff would participate
with ADFU in its field work relating to the supervision of PFIs. The Bank
would continue to pay particular attention to the supervision of DBP in view
of the magnitude and complexity of the problems that DBP is facing (para. 67).
Finally, the Bank may undertake direct supervision of PFIs in the event it
considered ADFU's supervision performance unsatisfactory or in the event such
supervision was considered helpful in improving the institutional capacity of
a particular PFI. Provision for such supervision would be made in each
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 74).
70.       ADFU would set a "free limit" for each PFI in consultation with the
Bank. Subloans above a PFI's free limit would require a detailed review prior
to approval by ADFU; those below this limit would be reviewed by ADFU only
with regard to their prima facie eligibility and would only require ADFU's
authorization. In addition to this first-tier free limit, there would be a
second-tier free limit of $4.0 million above which subloans would be submitted
by ADFU to the Bank for review and approval. This free limit would give ADFU
adequate authority in committing the proceeds of the Bank loan, and at the
same time leave a reasonable number of subprojects (about 15% by number and
30% by amount) requiring the Bank's prior approval. However, before ADFU's
free limit arrangements became effective, the Bank would scrutinize a
reasonable number of subproject reviews done by ADFU to satisfy itself that
ADFU had developed acceptable subproject review standards (Section 2.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
71.       ADFU would assist PFIs in formulating and implementing appropriate
procurement policies to ensure that financed goods, works and services are
reasonably priced. As with other DFC loans, PFIs would require their borrow-
ers to canvass and submit competitive quotations from at least three sources
for procurement of major equipment/plant. ADFU would encourage PFIs to apply
international competitive bidding (ICB) wherever warranted by the size and
nature of the purchase. ADFU's operating policy guidelines (para. 60) spell
out its policy on procurement, and an understanding on detailed operating
guidelines on procurement to be followed by the accredited PFIs was reached at
negotiations.



- 23 -
72.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against:
(a) the foreign exchange cost of imported goods and services; (b) 70% of total
expenditures on imported goods procured locally; (c) 50% of local expenditures
on locally manufactured goods; and (d) 45% of civil works costs. These
percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange cost of project-related
expenditures under (b) to (d). ADFU would require PFIs to adopt procedures
that would ensure that disbursements are made for their intended purposes and
in accordance with the terms of the supply contracts. Withdrawal applications
from the PFIs would be reviewed by ADFU prior to their submission to the Bank.
Disbursements would be made against normal documentation except for local
expenditures of less than $10,000 equivalent each; documentation for such
expenditures would be retained by ADFU for the Bank's post-disbursements
review missions. The annual audit of project accounts would include a
separate opinion covering disbursements made from the loan account on the
basis of statements of expenditure (Section 4.01(c)(ii) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Resource Requirements and Financing Arrangements
73.       Based on the estimated resource requirements of the three PFIs (DBP,
PDP, and PISo) evaluated by ADFU, and the two or three additional PFIs that
would be accredited during the project implementation period, the total
foreign exchange resource requirement of ADFU to cover the subloan commitments
of PFIs in the two-year period from mid-1981 to mid-1983 is estimated at $250
million. The proposed Bank loan would provide $150 million and the remaining
$100 million would be secured, not later than July 31, 1981, by the Central
Bank from borrowings on the international financial market (Section 4.04 (a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Out of its total resources, ADFU has proposed
allocations of $60 million for DBP, $50 million for PDCP and $40 million for
PISO; the balance of $100 million would be reserved for new PFIs. The
proportion of Bank funds and commercial funds allocated by ADFU would, at
least in the initial stages of the project, be identical for all PFIs; the
allocations to PFIs would be subject to periodic review and possible
reallocations amongst PFIs based on their requirements and performance.
Main Features of the Proposed Loan
74.       The proposed loan would be made to the Central Bank of the
Philippines with the guarantee of the Republic of the Philippines. The
proceeds of the loan (and funds raised from the international financial
market) would be re-lent by the Central Bank (ADFU) to individual PFIs under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Central Bank would repay the loan over 20 years,
including a five-year grace period. These repayment terms are justified on
the grounds that: (a) the Philippines, of which the Central Bank is an agent,
stands in need of substantial borrowings on country terms; and (b) it would
facilitate co-financing arrangements for the project as the longer grace
period under the Bank loan would make it easier for ADFU to blend Bank funds
with commercial funds which ordinarily are of a shorter maturity (about 8
years) and have a limited grace period. In order to assist the Central Bank



- 24 -
in raising the required commercial funds, the draft Loan Agreement includes a
standard cross default provision (Section 5.01(c)), which could be applied if
the commercial lenders insisted on having an agreement with the Bank, i.e.,
formal co-financing, and the Government and the Central Bank agree. The
Central Bank may also request a reduction in the Bank loan's early maturities
to accommodate the potentially high repayment installments under commercial
borrowings. The amortization schedule between the Central Bank and individual
PFIs would reflect approximately the aggregate of the amortization schedules
between the PFIs and their borrowers, which are expected to range from 6 to 12
years.
75.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be on-lent by ADFU to
PFIs at an interest rate at least equal to the interest rate for the Bank
loan, plus a service fee of not less than 3/4 of 1% p.a. to cover its overhead
expenses. The PFIs would relend the Bank funds to their clients with a
maximum spread of 4.5%, the same margin as that presently accruing to PDCP and
PISO on existing Bank loans. An attractive margin is necessary to encourage
PFIs, particularly the commercial banks, to actively engage in term lending.
Based on the Bank-s present lending rate of 9.6% p.a., and the Central Bank-s
minimum service fee of 3/4 of 1% p.a., the cost to the final subborrowers
would be close to 15%, which is in line with the current market rate for
such funds. The Central Bank would charge PFIs a commitment charge of not
less than 3/4 of 1% p.a. on the undisbursed portion of PFI loans; the PFIs
would pass on the commitment charge to their clients. ADFU would review the
lending rates of PFIs every six months and, when necessary, would revise its
own on-lending rate on uncommitted funds to bring PFI lending rates in closer
alignment with the market conditions (para. A4 of Schedule 2 of the draft
Loan Agreement); the maximum margin allowed to PFIs would, however, remain
unchanged. The foreign exchange risk on both the Bank funds and commercial
funds would be borne by the subborrowers. Funds borrowed by the Central Bank
from the international market are expected to carry floating interest rates
and would be on-lent to PFIs at the floating rate cost to the Central Bank
plus a standard service fee (at present 1/8 of 1% p.a.), which the Central
Bank charges on all funds it acquires from the international financial market.
The PFIs would relend these funds at a floating rate, with a maximum margin of
4.5% (the same as the margin on Bank funds) on their cost.
Benefits and Risks
76.       The proposed loan would support the reform measures recently
adopted and would assist the Government in future reforms as may be necessary
in the financial sector. In 1980-81, the Government made basic structural
changes in the Philippine financial system (Part III). The impact of these
changes on the performance of the financial and industrial sectors would be
closely monitored during supervision of the loan and the Bank would continue
to work closely with the Government and the Central Bank on future changes
in the financial system. The project would also strengthen the
institutional capacity of a wider number of financial institutions to
provide development-oriented term lending.



- 25 -
77.       For implementation of its development programs, particularly the
structural transformation of industry, the Philippines will continue to rely
substantially on a large inflow of external resources. The proposed loan
and the commercial funds (para. 73) would help in this process by a net
transfer of resources amounting to $250 million. The loan would only be used
for economically viable industrial projects and the lending criteria encourage
the financing of subprojects that are generally labor-intensive, export-
oriented and efficient in terms of resource utilization. The application of
the industrial and financial sector reforms would facilitate pursuit of these
subproject objectives. Since individual projects to be financed under the
loan are not yet identified, an ex ante quantification of their economic
impact is not possible.  However, under the Bank-s past DFC financing, the
average ex ante financial rate of return was 28% and the economic rate of
return was 33%.
78.       The institutional arrangements for the project confer a key role
on the Central Bank, which would not merely administer the loan but would
also have the main responsibility for guiding and supervising the PFIs, and
through them would influence the quality and enhance the economic impact of
term financing in the country. The loan involves substantial delegation of
responsibility by the Bank to the Central Bank (ADFU) in relation to PFIs.
The capacity of ADFU to carry out its intended functions, and to evolve into
a strong development-oriented apex institution, would be critical to the
success of the project and the possibility of ADFU's failure to develop
reasonable standards constitutes the principal risk. However, in view of
the Government's and the Central Bank's strong commitment to ensure the
success of the industrial and financial sector reforms, the steps being
taken to recruit and train ADFU staff and the safeguards built into the
loan, including the provision of technical assistance that would assist ADFU
in functioning effectively and the substantial involvement of the Bank staff
in the initial stages of the project, it would appear that the prospects for
successful project implementation are good.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Central Bank of
the Philippines, the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of the
Philippines and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 13, 1981



27-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KEM.)                                                                 M DST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             300.0
AGRICULTURAL       90. 7                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (PS$)                   150.0        240.0      500.0                 1114.7                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       147.0        301.0     339.0                   842.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       27.4         36.9      45.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30. 3          32.9      35.4                    39. 1                   63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         75.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          126.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         91.0        123.0     152.0                   376.1                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0          472. 0    503.0                  2350.4                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.7        45.5       44.8                    40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                           52.3         53.6      52.1                    56.2                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0         2.9        3.1                     3.4                     3.9
POPULATION GRUSTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2. 7         3.0       2.7                     2.4                     2. 7
URBAN                                3.9          3. 9      3.7                     4.1                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.0         44.0      35.0                    28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       15.0         11.0        9.0                    7.9                     8.9
GR1SS REPRODUCTION RATE                3. 5/c       3. 3       2.4                    1.9                     2. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        191.7     509.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            2. 0     22.0                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           102.0        ICI.0     114.0                   116.9                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     88.0         92.0      97.0                   108.9                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.0         50.0      53.0                    60.3                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0         20.0      21.0                    18.8                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       16.0         10.0       7.0                     5.3                     8.4
HEALIH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0           57.0      60.0                    63.0                    63.1
INFANT 1IORTALITY RATE (PER
THIUSAND)                             98. 0        80.0      74.0                    52.8                    66.5
ACCESS T0 SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PODULATION )
IOTAL                                 ..          ..       39.0                    42.4                    65.9
URRAN                                 ..          ..       51.0                    62.1                    80.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..       33.0                    29.7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                 ..           ..      56.0                    52.8                    62.3
IRBAN                                 ..           ..      76.0                    71.1                    79.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      44.0                    42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..          ..    2758.0                   4120. 1                 1849.2
POPULATION PER NIJRSING PERSON          ..       3840.0    3058.0                  2213.6                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1206.0        850.0     639.0                   619.4                   480.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMSISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..                    28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.8         5.9
URBAN                                 ..         6.2
RURAL                                ..          5.8
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOC
TOTAL                                 ..         2.3
URBAN                                 ..          2.1
CURAL                                 ..          2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWJELLINGS)
TOTAL                               16.5         22.9/d    31. 0
UREAN                                 ..         62.8/d
RURAL                                 ..          5. 8T    10. 0



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                               Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE .A0ES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOttE           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 95.0       114.0     105.0                   98.6                    99.7
HALE                 98.0       115.0     103.0                   99.2                   101.0
FEMALE               93.0       113.0     108.0                   97. 7                   99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                26.0        50.0      56.0                   55.5                    34.4
MALE                 28.0        59.0      65.0                   60. 7                   33.5
FEMALE               25.0        42.0      47.0                   49.9                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 15.0          6.0        ..                   13.7                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        29.0      29.0                   34.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                         27.0        33.0      31.0                   28.5                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       71.9        82.6      87.0                   85.8                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3. 0        8.0       8.9                    9.0                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0        46.0      41.0                  118.9                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.4        11.0      17.0                   39.4                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 17.0        14.0      18.0                    ..                     63.3
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6          ..       7.6                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2    i3478.1   16310.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.4        33.1      32.0                   36.8                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        53.0      48.0                   51.9                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2        15.8      16.0                   21.9                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.8        36.6      35.3                   39.1                    31.5
14ALE                               52. 1       48.6      47.1                   48.5                    48.9
FEMALE                              27.4        24.4      23.3                   29.6                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3       1.2                    1. 1                    1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2        53. 9     53.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2         3.7       5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9        11.9      14.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     250.0                     .
RURAL                               ..          ..     190.0                  192.1                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      132.0                   ..                   474.0
RLRAL                               ..          ..      87.0                  182.5                  332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      39. 0
RURAL                               ..          ..      44.0                   33.2                     .
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55;  /d 1967, household.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 19R0



ANNEX I
-29-Page 3of 5pages
DEFINITIONS_OF SOCIAl INDI_CATORS
Notes:  Although the data are drov  frol sure  generaflly judged the eas  nthoitoti-e And rl1iable, it should also be noted that they   y not he inte-
aniotuJllycopaeahle  hecenee nf the tack of sanderdited deiaitioee  and concpts ueed hy differentI.. cutries in collecting the dets   Th  data are,noe
thsle...e,. ceef tin  decrlihe orer  of  agnitods, indicane tranda, ned oh.laraeiee  cetan    in  differences..   toat..I coo erie...
The reersn  gops orel  C   te  an  conrygou 'f, the subject I..nt.  en, d (2) n coutry group otto  -ueh'tihigh. or  oerge toroo   thu  the coun.try geou.p
of the subje   countr  (net fo          fCptalOuple   IEfpotters" group.cheFs  'M4iddle lo-o  North AMecca nod diddle East" iclh.een hecaue of stronger
socc-ol ncalaffnites)   1I  the re,fhsoncotgrop data the noeregs  sre PoPuletion eeithted aitbattic ooau for each tadictor- and  hose  ..Iy ohen  t
dats end is not  .eif.r-. caution ous  he roeroisdl In  ea  n              rgao            nieo   oaohr   Theso sh.nragneer  onl.usfu In h.oparIg iltysvau
of one indita',toestette    acg  th   oo_r edrfeec  grops.
LAND AREA (thousand sq .mCrlanionpe  PhysIoie-looindionded  by ti-e  of practicin   phy-
Totai - Totalur           ... are   coprisin  land areed inland ors.icasquaife ffine a   dion1 school et onite ityIlve.1
Alefc-ltuen1 -  ettoats of ogri.tcnua  nos _ oned temporarily or peomnently                   Populasc  ose f4-si   PIe---e--  Pouindiride hynsr of.peacn iia
Foetaton  oe   osntelNed- tta,:uban,tad eus  - IPoetuttion (toisi.
GNP PER CAPITA (UiS) - lNP Per cepito  Fatae   a   ueu  mre   rie,cl                               athon  an  oursi)divided hythe ir  eprive obe, of hospital beds
onee   hy snecnoric   nto   asArd  e..Als(17-9   at): 1960,                                     availablein public nod private genera  an    petiatind hospital  -anes
97li  end  1979 dae                                                                              aIiaimreee                 opet   e   eelstst    emsei   tPe
ENUGY CONSUWTION PER CAPITA - AnI..1   If             gyl                 hy an let-onephysician.  nE-bIf.s-un   prretdin   Peintipully cotodia1
ENROT CNSOOPTIN PP CPIT   - Ance  cuenationof  oenrcilecegy   coatnee ar                 ino tulodd.  Royal hospitals, h-ere, include halth and adinal
and tigeite, penroisn, natura  oat ed hydo-,.. nclira  andgethsmai siec-                        peaero  rrannly staffed  by aPhysician  (bhu  hy . eedtre Iseet
teiciny) in kilogrs   If coa  oqui-aent Per co.pita; lb, 1970, and 1918                         neo    iof.ec)atho  e   nptetacidte    e   rvd
dets.                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~ifeltedfrange of aedical facititien.  Foroaitia    ipae    ra  bnspi-
te.7i tontde WiN   principal ge-e.1 and epeotnOisd hanptal.1 sad cara
PoFtUlATIOf A00  VITAL STATISTICS                                                                  hepteeloa  or cornI hoepitais and  -edi-It end e                 iycnes
Tot.l Fopaletio..  Mid-Tear Ismiltions) - he of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978                  Admissions per Ocecpitadl Ned - Tonl unnh, of adnisions to or discharge
data,                                                                                         F. roe huptale dtridd ho the ocsber of beds.
IranFrob tc   (rr                  -1)o ocl  - hatic of -bhan to ert1 populaniot;
dilffe..nt defuidtnne of urban arasay  ffc  cprbiliny of date                             eotaiet
asng ....stylee; l96b, 1970, and 1979 date.                                                 A-"eas  tiee of Hcceehold (p-rece           h per ..cehold) - tta.1 ucbn, And    s-
PPorulaioc Eroysotiou                                                                           A household ..otniene of a stoop  oleoins cshrliohn   quarte.f
Fopuafio  in  ear0000- Corec  p00' eton   rojeticr  at  hend 00900            sod  heiroai  ossa.  Ahoaderfr lbce.say cd-yocthe9icludd i
trnipoultin  yg  end or  and  ih           oilty  ad friiyrts    t                     hehuec.   o   ttsia    upee
leve, ad femle lnf e epertacY IthuilioinA  nt 77.5 years   The p,ta-                        bdosilt     ..ego,1'Ib':  ..p..oly...lnnodoo-nnaetnrctiond1
andh frtirfly  trends        ..   ..Ifth. fAr pPjACinn   .r..ento titn,  thac,t aol                                      -t-    -Ii. cue-oelutre t lou.
Itationor' popintint-Sonata io...ey PoPnlati-o there Is Ino grooh niece                f         Ib          .d     d.l..  fpl -y
the bieth rats in eq.ul to rho danthe-te, oIl alc the aE. anutn... t           in-    EDUCATION
ant O  constant.  Thi  in achieve  IIIy after fertility rate  decine to                   Adlusted fErc1lman  Ratio
rf mo.s replaces itel efn-ty.  The  -tet... ty  .poplation siceasorlsn    f.1agsa   h    ymr   ee   o  eooue   freef
-etteue   on She hbsu  of: th roend chacacterietics of the poultion                           primary school-age popilafttu t; nraly icue  oudes  1g.d A-l
inthe yea  207,  anthe rate ofdecineo  fetilisy tecuelee-..c. but adjusted foe differeer l0he  f r1-oarod-ceton   foe
ano  dccl                                                                                     cotisonrboi-er-s  nd.etioIn ..r..11at any eaceed101 percent
lace sttionar,.y roruplaticn is reached - The year ohen etatimney pjpclution                     aic  sca  pup.il.sshl'ohbo   heofca   colae
P sian. ha  bean teethd.                                                                      lodr   col-tota,slan  femle - Ceputed  s aoIs  seodar
Pee se. Sm. - Mid-yanr populetine Persur  kilot-r (101 heonarse) Iof                            providesgcrl.oainl   rneoe   riigtspcit tfoe pun
Poe so. S.seclu             laid - Coaputed .s  bhro  for sgrtcultue1 1med                       ....loded.       .17.l   I..;-..p.d .                             f     -l1Y
PoenI.ieni    ARe Snt-otnee (ncEor.t) - Childrec  (0-10 year), ocehieg-ago (Ii                       Ii-icuethto, i-         detIf c  othe.ry peg... ohih   poat i ndtepse-.
64 years), nod recited (6  years andcs)a  peretae  of 0d-year popo-                             dontlyora  departeectatof secondar  ttIttinn.
lac;  9,17. nod 1976 dIota                                                           rural-teache   ai -1   p            .r.anseod or       oa   fdee  crlld i
Frenlarin croothnato (rEreuSt)    tta   - Annual nrtih -o-e  of toa   i-                    pimary an   eodr   eredvddhynneno   er ni   h
lattoco  for  1950- 60,   1960-70,and   170-7  0acrrcn78                                                       f  oa  an    oultonce  11 year  and ovr
p npu fettot   190, 1970, ad707  dnaAd.IoTO
Crue oat  Rts or  thosn..Id) - An-on  loath  pert.P nh h,csaud Io ni-yerdaege  aefe ycusdoclaln..rnenrcr   omee   nu
.poylatiot; 1960, 1970, sod 1979 data,                                                        teesMP  seto   estore0tpros  .uldsebiro                              ere   o
leonae Orcuctnh   t- Aoeoag  oumberof dangh.e.u. .osat sill bear in                              sitin_rorolina
her noma  repodnotice  porlod if she eaperienc   PI.e"a            ..t ag-Pec ifite         Radio Receioern (per  1houead yoplatlir  -All typas of  rciosfor redo
tilityeae;emil   oeyudaena   soIng  ia 1961,'1970, and 1577                                   heoudoat   ogoelpbi   e   ho.ead of population;  -aclds uni-
Fatly  PloI-I-.,        cnre Al   ncoa Ivhih...acde~ - Annual nanhor o  acceptor...nuccior    innuocireedi                                        esh..r i-g--tiuoIfrsine
of bith-cntr   dente under ...epi..a of nationl fanily planing FPorem                     .se  ineffert ;   t     or recent yearsill
fdlPancia-Ieo(ecn  o   nredot,-Pecnaeo    ora                                              couttyir  abolished' licocing
o  Ie   f shill-bearingag  (1)-dO  yeea   ho  -u  hit-crtirl deolces to                  TV tciers (ret thousa nd rprulartIc   -  Icrcvr   ft broadcast to
all an tril men  to ano ORe occr                                      genera  public pee thon...nd populatino; ecrIldso                    TVices1   .e.i.e
FOOD MD NUTRITION                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~it  .. rutrien  and it years ohen refisi..o.. o- f TV  on e.ta  to enffect.
croductior o  nil fool crsandittee.    roduction n dule  neod and fend and       licanioc devoted yriaueily no recoodiep, genee   eo,           I  is considered
in Io calender y-n  bania.  Cu-dciti-e rove  prer  goods (eng. auarn                           oh   daily' if cru.ppeareatleastIfou  tierssek
inatead  of ougur) ohich s:te  dtblean.dcoontonoItoi.nrr   (e.g. coffee end          CIte   AnulAtenc   erCct    ela-endo   i   obeo
trereeclded.    ggcgae podctin o  ech  unrryisbasd  n                 rlts e.Id during  ch. year, ir-ludine adaiaf_  to drv-i   inoa
anini ..   verage producer price cni'ghtte; 1961-hi,1970,an  I070 lana.                       sri nbl  ui
pe  gy.  AIalll   upilerople   oetir -- pe dorrioc                  . toot  lena       local labor  2out  rhonesds) -  -cooirall  a-is- esos  including
sopurt, and change i  atock   Ot spiia oldeaisal teed,  _sd,                                anl fope   o   colydhtsroiehneie,soec,ec
annsec    si.ut.d hoAPu  h..nd In physiologial1 nadl  fur.- cm l at-                 1079 dato.
cit  ned hecl,h -orshd-ert   -vtrcer-        l  eooern1         body catbta  sn           Fnol (ecet    Fenal  labor corteg   yarerag   o  trtnlI lahefrce.
an   r   i    Irhto    f cpulation, and o11nlen  10 perenI fe  seeat.Ircltr  cece)-Labofrc Ineoi, fornry Icnl9  n
househod level; 1901-05, 1971, ncd 1977 dota.                                             Oeiga   acrne  ftt lhrfre  1960, 1970 nod 1979dae
Far cant   oupl of  coei   gon d           ly  dyorieconor  of pee  -nt                    Iedo-tr  -re -ee) - Lnhue fcrcetr  llf,rtceuru,mroatr
Ot nplyoffulpe   ay   rteupy  f  od  o  eind  enbcn    e-            ad electriciy    na   o   u   n  err et   oa  labor freon; lOt,
quiron-to  fo    I  --corir    otahlitched hy UtSD  pec..ide  foe olenue                    1(0al iWOdta.--.dg    .p- "                         If f1
alonnu   of hi &man of  .tota  Proteic Pee day and 20 gElna of noimal nod                 Paiorto    at  er            f) - tfl enl. nod fsl               Participatton  o
pulan prcelo,  f ohlch Igeeiodhrana cctn. h..ncn.- n                                           ....yrrecr.- -p'-d a  ton          1hcl, nod fenac  lehot fotooga
ode ar Plonrchrths ofo  ra  of ictap:ypced  and FAO irna of. pThcire If rtni, eul  nod Seanle popolarloro   el  uonOeeOtO
Inml ori   sno o..cug. fur th...     ,poyedb   A   l  h    hr                     1160, 1970. crd 1975 dItc    These..        LO   ynriiptf           oa  reflecting
World tool Su"-y; 1961-65, 1970 nod 19177 data.                                                                                                   ilp% ,A   -..I
rived f-o  noninad polec ic gree  pardy;1616,1                   970 d cc   07   aa.     tocno Isycdpc ratio   R.Ptio of popu1.into   -dc- it nod 65  td ocer
Child (cuesi-_L-Al tiutiniy_Rtot  _roe th-u..ld  - nanuci dourhe pee th,oead ie                  to the ttrc1 labro Purro
age group i-A  yner. cc tilidre  In thin noe orop; for anid-olnpie  coun-
tries da_  dleiced frog life  tehlne; 1960. 1970 nod 1977 dni.fnuen a.croo
1EAI                                                                                             Peottae  f Prita- brnt..  (bur  in caoh  .ld kbed) - Re-iced byrlh-he
lif  iretary  t  iet  fnua)    Aregeoceerofyean  f   ifereniing          9  ocon ,tihest 20 yerrert, p--ee   20 perror, nod po.ree. I4  percent
Lic; hutch  1060,- if..ltnod- 1070Iifdeco,.                                                     of houseolda
lat MortalIty Rts   ettho....od)  A-Ihna  deorf  of if attn  under orefre                PlOVETY  TARGET GROUPS
of aoe pe ihocaod lco   irtho.                                        E.tienied hbaclote Povety Iccno Le.l(i e MS               pita) - uchn  nd coe  -
naerst)n  ch-c Iron p-uet-rl Icreho-, apoinge, erd oaif iay icll)  c                          fstt,ed RIncioc f'nvety boone leve  (000I ce  capltal - orbon enditl-
P.rre.rgeg  of theIr,  -penp.ctr    ,popotiuna.  IouIanb reaapolir                               unrltv   pon to ioce  lvelI:                 r-ho   ciaaooproita
do rut boon to epod a diuproporlori.te part of the lay in ferohieg the                          n  ua _ P- Prre-   of1 p oAtior1 (ucha  lnod  eseolloore"bluepr.
rural, -and ruroflpople (-toIf rbpan,nodirual) neved byanceet
diepol n. IIrstne   of thei  repcrc   ycp1olsiEo... tarer  lie-                                                                foo..o.ic   c   ol ..    . iota Dlirs
p...I any.irolode the c1l'etict and diapo.. net,    h opai~th-onenest                                                      c-oic Anal ysi  nod P-rJetioes Dpleprt-e
pit prosend slila  inoefatefc



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                               Annual growth rates (%)
current prices)                      Actual                                      Projected
Indicator                           1979           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross do4mstti pro4uct           28,854           7.1     6.2      5.9     5.9      4.7      5.8      6.3      6.3     6.3      7.1     8.3
A5r$cultur.                     6,991           8.6     5.0      4.8     5.3      4.3      5.2      5.2     5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
In4ustry                       10,174          10.0     7.7      6.4     6.7      5.8      6.5      7.2     7.5      7.5     8.5    10.0
Services                       11,689           3.7     5.7      6.3     5.5      5.0      5.6      6.2     6.0      6.0     7.0      8.5
Consumption                      21,860           4.3     5.2      4.6     4.8      4.2       5.4     5.2      4.9     5.1      5.8     7.0
Gross investment                  8,576           8.0     0.7    13.3      7.4      4.8      6.3      6.3      6.3     6.3      7.1     8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                5,528          19.9    17.6      1.6     7.4    11.3       10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                   7,110           1.3     5.3    13.2    10.3       5.2      6.6      6.7     6.5      6.6      6.8     7.2
Gross national savings            6,665          -2.0    11.3      8.3     7.7      3.1      -        -       -        -        -       -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                       183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9       -        -       -        -       -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                           7.45    7.41    7.38    7.39       7.52     -        -       -        -       -        -
Export price index (1978 - 100)                  92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 - 100)                 91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 - 100)               101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1       98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92..9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                      Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prices) /c                                (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990        1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           5.1        6.1        5.9       6.3        7.6
Agriculture                      28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0           4.3        4.3       4.8        5.0        5.0
Industry                         25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6           6.0        8.6       7.6        7.5        9.1
Services                         46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4           5.2        5.4       5.7        6.1        7.7
Consumption                      85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7           4.8        5.5       5.2        5.2        6.5
Gross investment                 16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5           8.2       11.5       6.5        6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                  10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5           5.8        3.2      10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                  10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4           6.8        6.8       8.0        6.6        6.9
Gross national savings           16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2           7.4        9.7       -          -          -
As X of GDP
1960      1970       1975       1980        Labor Force in 1978          Millions    (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                            Agriculture                  7.4       44.4
Current revenues                          9.8        9.5      13.9       12.8           Industry                     2.7      16.2
Current expenditures                      9.6       10.9      12.3        9.6           Services                     5.6      33.0
Current surplus                           0.2       -1.4        1.6       4.1           Unemployed                   1.1       6.4
Capital expenditure                       2.3        1.9        3.2       3.2
Foreign financing                         -          0.1        0.3       1.5               Total Labor Force       16.8     100.0
1960-70          1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                5.1              5.6              5.9              6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                     2.0              2.7              3.2              3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                 7.4              6.2              4.2              4.7               4.6
ICOR                                                      4.5              4.7              4.6              4.5              4.1
Marginal savings rate                                   0.285            0.330             0.26             0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                        1.33             1.12             1.20             1.05             0.90
/a Preliminary estimate.
7i Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
February 1981



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
Actual                          Eat.                Projected
1976       1977        1978       1979           1980       1981       1982        1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                 3,387      4,161       4,838      6,177          8,040    9,450       11,100    18,200
Of which:  exports of goods                 2,574      3,151       3,425      4,601          5,940      7,480      8,500    14,300
Imports of goods and services                 4,763      5,248       6,323      8,108         10,620    12,540      14,450    21,700
Of which:  imports of goods                 3,633      3,915       4,732      6,142          7,870      9,360     10,800      16,200
Transfers (net)                                 269         260        313         355            410       450         500        800
Current Account Balance                   -1,107        -827     -1,172      -1,576          2,170   -2,640    -2,850        -2,700
Direct investment (net)                         144         216        171          99            110       200         250        200
MLT loans (net)                               1,040         662        891       1,091         1,050      1,700      2,200       2,600
Official-source loans (net)                   282        332         333        449            560        800      1,000         950
Private-source loans (net)                    758        330         501        642            490        900      1,200      1,650
Other capital (net) Ia                         -238         113         56        -193            530       370         200        300
Overall Balance lb                           -161        164         -54       -579           -480       -370       -200         400
International reserves (end-year) /c          1,640      1,525       1,883      2,424          3,160      3,000      3,000      3,200
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official grants                                 0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
Total public loans                          1,577.4    1,392.0    2,417.0   2,105.2
IBRD                                       226.0       317.5      533.0       210.5
IDA                                           0.0        0.0        28.0       62.0
Other multilateral                           64.2      226.6       189.2      286.6
Governments                                391.6       182.3       370.4      223.6
Suppliers                                    52.0      194.2        76.7       52.3
Financial institutions                     476.4       341.7   1,000.5   1,224.4
Bonds                                      367.2       129.7       219.2       45.8
Other MLT loans                               603.6      115.0       914.0      278.8
Memorandum Items
Grant element of commitments                    8.8       14.7        16.8        16.5
Average interest (%)                            8.3         7.9        7.4         7.7
Average maturity (years)                       13.1        15.3       15.9        15.9
Medium 6 Long-Term Debt
Total debt outstanding (disbursed
only, end of period)                     4,383.0    5,554.0    6,839.0   7,920.0
Including undisbursed                      6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0  12,225.3
Public debt service                          -239.2    -441.9       -468.1   ??652.5
of which:  interest                        -97.9    -215.2    -167.1         -300.0
Other MLT debt service                       -283.5    -320.1       -441.9     -375.5
Total debt service                           -522.7    -762.0    -910.0  -1,082.0
Debt Burden
Debt service ratio                             15.4        18.3       18.8        17.4
Debt service ratio /d                          19.4        22.1       21.2        18.2
Debt service/GDP                                2.9         3.8        3.9         3.6
Public debt service/governxeot
revenue                                       9.9       12.0        20.1       18.3                                         Outstanding
December 31, 1979
Terms                                                                                                                         Amount    Percent
External Debt                (US$ aln)
Interest on total DOD/total DOD                 4.1        6.4         4.0         6.1
Total debt service/total DOD                   10.5        15.8       13.3        13.0        (Disbursed only)
IBRD                           731      14.1
Dependency Rsatis                                                                                  Bank Group /e                  763      14.8
Other oultilateral             397       7.7
Gross disbursenents/iaports (GNFS)             37.9        28.7       34.3        30.7          Governments                  1,094       21.2
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                    29.6        20.8       16.0        16.7           Suppliers                     250        4.8
Net transfer/gross disbursements               78.0       73.0        59.0        52.8          Pinancial institutions    1,879          36.4
Bonds                          783      15.1
Exposure                                                                                           Total public MLT debt    5,167         100.0
Other MLT debt              2,753       53.3
IBRD disb./gross total disb.                    5.5         7.4        8.3        10.4          Total MLT debt               7,920     153.3
Bank Group disb./gross total disb./e            6.2         7.5        8.3        10.4
IBRD DOD/total DOD                              7.2         7.3        8.0        9.9         (Including undisbursed)
Bank Group DOD/total DOD /e                     7.8         7.8        8.4        10.3          Public MLT debt            8,971.4     173.6
IBRD debt service/total debt service            6.6        5.6         6.9        7.3           Total MLT debt            12,225.3     237.0
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv    6.7               5.6        7.0         7.4
/a Short-tern capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
7T Equals change in net international reserves.
7c Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves", IFS).
7d Includes net direct investment income.
7e Excludes IFC.
East Asia and Pacific Region
February 1981



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of February 28, 1981
Loan or
Credit                                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                 Purpose                          Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-two Loans and three credits fully disbursed                          401.9   32.2
720-PH   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage             14.3              0.3
984-PH   1974                            Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation         9.5               1.0
998-PH   1974                            DBP I                              50.0              3.3
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                 61.0              2.3
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                            25.0              9.1
1048-PH   1974                             Shipping                          20.0              4.6
1052-Pli   1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                              30.0              1.3
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                     17.0              4.9
1102-PHl  1975                            Rural Development                  25.0               8.2
1154-PH   1976                            Magat Irrigation                   42.0             14.2
1190-PH   1976                            DBP II                             75.0              4.7
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                      25.0              5.7
1225-PH   1976                            Livestock II                       20.5               1.3
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                   50.0             32.3
1272-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                       10.0              5.4
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                       22.0             11.8
1269-PH   1976                            Second Grain Processing            11.5              8.5
1353-Pli  1977                            Third Highways                     95.0             63.6
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                  15.0              7.7
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                   25.0             10.4
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.5              17.6
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.        50.0             34.8
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.0                 15.5
1421-PH   1977                            Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II          15.0             10.9
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                         58.0             40.2
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming            8.0              6.8
1514-PU   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                30.0             11.4
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.0                 50.1
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                      28.0      25.6
S.8-PH   1978                            Education                           2.0               1.4
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                 60.0             15.1
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                  15.0              2.9
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                          150.0             67.9
1572-PH   1978                             Indtustrial Investment III        80.0             37.5
1615-PH   1978                            Manila Water Supply II             88.0             84.4
1626-PH   1979                            National Extension                 35.0             34.5
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose           21.0             18.3
1646-PH   1979                            Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.5                 11.8
1647-PH   1979                             Second Urban Development          32.0             27.3
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                       102.0             98.8
1710-PHl  1979                            Water Supply II                    16.0             16.0
920-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                            22.0     21.2
1727-PH   1979                             Small & Medium Industry IT        25.0             13.4
923-PH   1979                            Population II                             40.0      39.9
1772-Pli   1980                            Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.0             26.8
1786-PH   1980                            Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)         38.0             37.8
1809-PH   1980                            Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.0             70.9
1814-PH   1980                            Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.0                 62.5
1815-PH   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.0                 11.9
1821-PH   1980                            Third Urban                        72.0             70.9
1855-PH   1980                            Third Ports                        67.0             67.0
1860-PH   1980                            Rural Roads Improvement            62.0              60.8
1890-PH   1980                            Watershed Management               38.0             37.9
1894-PH   1980                            Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.0                 44.6
1903-PH   1981                            Structural Adjustaent             200.0            157.7/a
Total                                                                2,665.7  122.2  1,552.7
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                             191.4
Total now outstanding                                                2,474.3  122.2
Amount sold                                              24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        17.1            7.2    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                               2,467.1  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                    1,466.0   86.7  1,552.7
/a Payment of $41.3 million made in March 1981.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of February 28, 1981
Fiscal                                                        Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the          15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -       4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              4.5       -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -       2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2      2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0       -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5           0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0       -       7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                       2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5       -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1           -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                     4.0      1.1      5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                        5.0      0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business               -        0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.             4.5       -       4.5
Total gross commitments                        86.6    17.0   103.6
Less sold, acquired by others,               47.5    12.7    60.2
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              39.1      4.3    43.4
Total Undisbursed                               5.0       -       5.0



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /_
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984      $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of schedule. There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the
service area improvement works, and further delays were caused by strong
typhoons in 1978 and 1980 which damaged some of the project area. Completion
is now planned for 1981 - a three-year delay in the original schedule. Due
to increased costs, a reduced cropping intensity and delays in construction,
the internal rate of return is expected to be close to 12% compared with the
appraisal estimate of 17%.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 75% complete. Full completion is expected
by June 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has, therefore, been extended by two years to June
30, 1982. The area developed is likely to be some 20% less than originally
planned mainly because of flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Costs are higher, partly due to the delays referred to above, and the economic
rate of return is now likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal
estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102       Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall implementation is about 75% complete. The road subproject
has been delayed by about two years because most of the construction contracts
had to be rebid following the failure of the ongoing contracts. Contracts
for the construction of the irrigation works are also behind schedule, but
most of these should be successfully completed without rebidding.  Recent
efforts by the project management office to improve contract performance
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
have been successful, and force account works are proceeding well. General
shortages of fuel and construction material have now been overcome.
Disbursements have improved significantly recently and completion is
expected in mid-1982, about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1154       Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Mlillion Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: Novemuber 4, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is about 81% complete. All contracts have now been awarded
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Problems
experienced due to budgetary constraints in 1980 are expected to be lessened
in 1981 as NIA taps other local financial resources. Due to earlier delays
in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980, project
completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the original
schedule.
Loan No. 1225       Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 1981, one year
before the closing date (June 30, 1982) as a result of significant subloan
demand in piggery and poultry subsectors.  Further support to livestock
development in the Philippines is being provided under the ongoing Third
Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project (Loan 1894).
Loan No. 1227       Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Although the project was due for completion by June 1980, it
is now only about 40% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays have been caused by
changes in design resulting in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; problems of right-of-way aquisition and the recent suspension
of work on the diversion dam because of security problems. The project is
not now expected to be completed before June 1984, a four-year delay over
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1269       Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementation of the first phase project
(Loan 720-PTI) and to the general availability of funds to millers from



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
alternative sources, disbursements had been progressing slowly.  Recently,
however, due to DBP-s promotional efforts, the subloan demand from millers
has been increasing. In addition, DBP is considering financing the grain
warehouse construction program of the National Food Authority under this
project. In view of these developments, the project funds are expected to
be fully committed by the end of CY1981 and the loan disbursed by June 1983,
two years behind schedule. The Borrower has now requested an extension of
the loan's closing date to June 1983.  The ongoing Grains Losses Study is
expected to be completed by the end of 1981.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 40% compared with appraisal
estimates of 55%. Force account work is proceeding satisfactorily. Some of
the 24 civil works contracts failed, due to unsatisfactory procurement
procedures, but the Government has now taken action to improve the situation.
Progress has recently improved, and a timely completion is still expected.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements continue to be roughly one-half of
appraisal estimates.  The Central Bank has reassessed the project and as a
result new categories of lending (for medium-size trucks, tree crops and
working capital), and a new set of financial intermediaries (private
development banks) have been included in the project. More recently the
Central Bank has reduced the relative advantages of rural banks in short-term
lending vis-a-vis medium- and long-term lending provided under the project,
and has introduced a capital build-up program and conversion scheme to lower
the high levels of arrears of participating rural banks.  Although these
initiatives should accelerate implementation, the completion date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow, initially because
of staffing and design problems, and more recently because of delays in the
review of design and contractual arrangements for the Abulog diversion dam.
Shortages of fuel and construction materials, which have been a major cause of
delay, have now been overcome. The project is now expected to be completed in
1983, two years later than originally estimated. Implementation has improved
during the 1980 construction season, and further improvements are expected in
1981, mainly because of better planning and organization, less complicated
contract procedures, and completion of designs. Final project costs and
benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being maintained. The Government has
simplified and accelerated procedures for issue of land allocation certi-
ficates and titles to project area settlers, improving their eligibility for
term credit. Substantial progress has been made in construction of roads,
bridges and related infrastructure. Initial irrigation works, water supply
systems and health stations have been installed. Adaptive research trials
have been completed and pilot extension programs for appropriate agricultural
packages are now under way. Feasibility studies for development of other
settlements are well advanced, but formulation of a long-term land use policy
framework is lagging. Previous bottlenecks in the flow of funds and loan
disbursements have eased since 1980. Implementation plans for 1981/82,
currently being reviewed, show project costs and overall targets in line with
original estimates.
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Treefarmer enrollment in the DBP treefarming component, which has
been slow in the past, has improved markedly following DBP's liberalization
of application procedures and collateral requirements. However, so far fewer
smallholders and more umedium-size land-owners are participating than
expected at appraisal. The other components, all of which involve
government agencies, now have budget appropriations commensurate with
project requirements, although delays in fund releases still occur. The
forest research component is progressing well and the wood industries
feasibility study is approaching completion.  Vehicles and equipment for BFD-s
Abra plantation component have still not been acquired due to overly cumber-
some local procurement procedures.  Moreover, the young planted pines have
been infested by a shoot borer insect, which will require immediate control
measures. The pace of implementation of this component will, therefore,
have to be reduced and its completion date extended by at least one year.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 tlillion Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, project planning and design have been completed
for most of the systems, and construction is fully under way. No major
contracts have been awarded and those originally scheduled for 1980 were
delayed because of financial constraints and difficulties in completing
designs on schedule. To help with this problem, NIA has agreed to retain
local consultants to assist in design preparation of drainage works and thus
avoid delays in subsequent contract works. Overall progress is satisfactory
and the project is expected to be completed as scheduled.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. As of December 31,
1980, construction of about 34 km of roads had been completed, 300 km of
roads (about one-third of the program) were under contract or shortly to be
awarded, and 90% of the design work on the remaining roads had been completed.
While construction of the irrigation component is behind schedule, overall
progress of the project is satisfactory. About 300 rural water supply units
are completed and 48 barangay health stations have been built and
commissioned. The overall progress on the port component is estimated at
about 50%. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion was
successfully completed in May 1980. Excavation work is substantially
completed and concrete works, which had lagged because of difficulties with
the batching plant, have been brought on schedule. Work on construction of
new villages to accommodate families displaced by the reservoir is proceed-
ing very well.  Raising of the main dam closure section to a level of 158 m
by May 1, 1981 to allow diversion through the main spillway will be the next
critical phase.
Loan No. 1626-PH  National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Bureau of Agricultural
Extension, aims to introduce the training and visit (T and V) system to the
national extension service over a four year period. A Project Management
Committee has been created under the Deputy Minister's Chairmanship, and
appropriate subcommittees and operational units established. Regional
reorganization was effected on March 24, 1980 with the appointment of 12
Regional Directors and 24 Assistant Directors, followed by 75 Provincial
Executive Officers on March 28. The 1979 incremental staff appointments
have been made and recruitment of the 1980 contingent is proceeding. A
contract has been let for the construction of 167 extension centers. The
first year-s motorcycle allotment has been purchased and distributed under
the special vehicle loan fund. Procurement of the other vehicles, for the
first and second year, together with equipment, is proceeding. Training
was interrupted temporarily during reorganization, but is continuing in
cooperation with the USAID/KSU program on Agricultural Production and
Marketing. The first consultancy, on extension workers compensation and
duties, and a second, on monitoring and evaluation procedures for extension



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
workers and services, have been let. Pilot areas for introducing the
T and V system of extension have been established in all 12 regions of the
country.  The first four have been evaluated and a report issued.
Benchmarker agro-economic surveys, on which the selection of the pilot areas
was based, have been completed in the 12 regions.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is satisfactory.
All major contracts have already been awarded and some are ahead of schedule.
All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is expected by mid-1983 as scheduled at appraisal. The only
problem to be foreseen is an overall financial constraint which is being
carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cumulative loan disbursements of $4.2 million up to December 1980
were lower than the appraisal estimate of $5 million because the subloan
demand from small farmers and rural entrepreneurs for farm mechanization and
backyard livestock investments have been generally weak owing to recent
increases in fuel and feed costs. Further, loan withdrawals against completed
infrastructure works ($3.5 million) have been held up by certain budgetary
regulations. However, the Budget Ministry has recently settled this matter
and disbursements should be made in the near future. The Land Bank has
initiated measures to strengthen its field level organization and streamline
its lending terms, which are expected to step up subloan disbursements to
small farmers.
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Procurement of services, materials and equipment for the project is
now under way, and the first phase of the Catubig valley studies has been
completed.
Loan No. 1809-PH  Medium-Scale Irrigation; V71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The loan became effective in June 1980 and project consultants
started work in August 1980. Procurement of project equipment is under way.
Design and preparation of contract documents for civil works are proceeding on
schedule and construction should start as planned.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1815-PH  Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980;  Date of Effectiveness:  June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Project implementation is proceeding slowly due mainly to a lack of
adequate budgeted funds. In addition, several rural banks in the project area
are unable to provide production credit to farmers due to high arrearages
under past loans. Following recent supervision, measures are now being
initiated to induct other banks, such as the Land Bank and the Philippine
National Bank, as well as to strengthen further the extension machinery.
Loan No. 1890-PH  Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
A good start has been made on implementation of the main components
of the project. Jurisdictional difficulties between the implementing agency
and the Bureau of Forest Development have been sorted out and a Memorandum of
Understanding signed. The National Irrigation Administration is making
vigorous efforts to protect the project as much as possible from the current
shortage of local funds.
Loan No. 1894       Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
A good start has been made in project implementation. During the
first four months, up to December 1980, DBP-s subloan disbursements exceeded
the appraisal estimnate. These disbursements were mainly for livestock and
inland fisheries subsectors; the loan demand for marine fisheries is, however,
weak. Under the noncredit component, the Borrower s Bureau of Animal Industry
and Fisheries Industry Development Council are preparing proposals for
research and other support prograims. DBP's studies on development of a new
management information system and staff training programs are in progress. A
plan for monitoring and evaluation of future agricultural credit projects is
also being developed by DBP.
Transportation Sector
Loan NIo. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1981 to allow for the
completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee payments.
About 70% of the loan has been disbursed. Loan applications covering the
balance of uncommitted funds are tnder consideration by DBP.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 53% completed and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many
contractors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The
operations of the Ministry of Public Highways (MPH) have improved but require
further efforts, specifically in road maintenance. In road construction and
improvement, works on 11 national and 5 minor road contracts are progressing
satisfactorily; however, poorly performing contractors continue to cause
problems on three national and two minor road contracts. MPH has now
undertaken the action necessary to forfeit and retender those five contracts,
and contract award is scheduled by mid-1981. The road maintenance and
restoration programs have been reviewed and are now making some progress. Of
the 28 workshop contracts, 11 are now under construction, 13 are up for rebid
and 4 have been renegotiated. There is a significant cost overrun on the
workshop contract, caused by changes in the design and price escalation.
Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery has been
completed. Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops
are in place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed.
The technical assistance advisors to MPH completed their assignment in
November 1970 and training advisors to MPH completed their work in March 1980.
Overall, the project completion is likely to be delayed until mid-1983, and it
will be necessary to extend the present closing date for two and a half years.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After an initial delay of several months the implementation of this
project has proceeded slowly, mainly because of time-consuming prequalifica-
tion procedures for contractors and slow selection of consultants for
technical assistance. The overall delay now amounts to at least a year, and
the progress in implementing the project continues to be slow.  Although MPHI
has done a considerable amount of preparatory work and international
competitive bidding is now under way, no construction or improvement works
have yet started. A consulting firm for the design and construction
supervision of workshops has started the design work. Land acquisition for
road construction and workslhops is under way and preparatory work has begun
for the continuation of the road maintenance and road restoration programs
begun under the Third Hlighway Project (Loan 1353-PB). Prequalification for
equipment suppliers has begun, but bids will be invited only after completion
of workshop construction.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents are now
complete, and bidding for the four main port contracts is scheduled to take



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
place by mid-1981.  Other preconstruction activities are under way and are
scheduled to be completed before the main contractors begin work.  Consultants
have been selected to provide technical assistance for construction super-
vision, and contract negotiations are under way.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September
11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts will start in the 1981
dry season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule.  Consulting
services are generally on schedule with the exception of the technical
assistance. The Government is aware of the importance of this item and is
taking steps to remedy the problem.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224T    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The central part of the project, which is the development of primary
and secondary textbooks and teachers' manuals in five subject areas, has made
continuous progress since the inception of the project. Eighteen million
books have been produced and distributed. The project should meet its goal
of producing and distributing to schools 75 titles amounting to 30 million
copies, as well as training about 250,000 teachers, by the middle of 1981.
Civil works are about 28 months behind schedule.  Project costs are close
to appraisal estimates and disbursements are about 80% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The situation
is being recuperated and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions   An extension of the closing date
is to be sought once a revised financial plan has been elaborated with the
Finance and Budget Ministries. Overall project utilization of Technical
Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship time has been
committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational developments
at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some tendency to
proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing Board of



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing important changes
in policies and programs.
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have been implemented efficiently. The report on the
project summative evaluation which has been completed by the University of the
Philippines- Institute of Mass Communication, contains informative data on the
use of radio for the improvement of education. The Educational Communications
Office is now formulating follow-up plans incorporating this data into the
forthcoming Elementary Education project. A separate evaluation of the
Communication Technology for Rural Education will be completed towards the end
of 1981.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Although the loan became effective in May 1980, funds were released
by the Government only in November, which resulted in some implementation
delays. Physical implementation, however, is on schedule. Contract awards
for the first 13 packages were expected in the first quarter of 1981. By
December 1980, site acquisition was practically completed and equipment lists
were nearing completion. The first of five planned RIFT/RCFT staff training
workshops was conducted in November 1980. EDPITAF-s devolution of major
responsibility and funds for implementation to recipient institutions is a
major policy change which will require, among other things, the introduction
of complex accounting practices. The proposed UPVCF Fellowship program is not
consistent with project objectives and will require rigorous review by UPV,
EDPITAF and the Bank.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 65% complete.
In spite of implementation delays in two key components - construction of
major roads and the sewer outfall - overall management of the project has
improved: key staff vacancies in the Tondo office have been filled, and
NHA-s General Manager is increasingly devoting his personal supervision to
the project. All but two infrastructure contracts have been awarded and are
currently in various stages of mobilization. The Dagat-Dagatan component is
98% complete, and about 1,317 of the 1,501 completed units have been
occupied. The shortfall of 499 units will be constructed under the Second
Urban Project. The progress of the first package of the road component has
been held up due to price adjustment problems in the contract, and



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
implementation of the sewer outfall component has been delayed due to design
modifications. However, the contractor has now been selected, and
implementation of this component is now expected to proceed smoothly.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Major contracts have been awarded. Work has started in four of the
six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing in the remaining two. The
construction cost is expected to be close to appraisal estimates and project
completion is expected to be on target.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project (source and
treatment works) have resulted in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the
project (distribution system). Nevertheless, according to rescheduling
prepared by consultants, it is expected that the original target of completing
the project by June 1983 will be met. Water rates were increased by 25
centavos in Mlay 1980 and a 10% water rate surcharge was implemented at the end
of 1980.
Loan No. 1647-PH  Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Since the loan became effective in April 1979, implementation has
been in progress on earthworks, sewerage and drainage contracts in Dagat-
Dagatan and on the SIR program in the regional cities. An action program to
remedy the drainage problem of the Dagat-Dagatan area and to provide adequate
fill materials has been initiated through IIPW and contracts for major
earthworks and infrastructure are now being let.  This should considerably
accelerate disbursements on the Dagat-Dagatan component. Overall loan
disbursement improved during FY80. Due to fill deficiency problems at the
Dagat-Dagatan site and general price escalations, the total project costs have
increased to approximately $95 million, reflecting a 38% increase over the
appraisal estimate. It is likely that thie overall project will be completed
on schedule by the end of 1983.
Credit 920-PH  Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work on the feasibility studies for the project cities is in progress and some
reports have been completed. Work has started on the development of a
financial planning and control system. Consultants have started the
preparation of a comaprehensive management assistance and training proposal.



- 45 -
ANNEX IT
Page 14 of 17
Loan 1814-PH Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and is
proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1821-PB Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
With satisfactory organizational and staffing arrangements now
established, physical implementation of this project is generally on schedule
in spite of procedural delays in budgetary releases. Second phase programs in
community upgrading, serviced sites, basic municipal infrastructure and
employment promotion are already being identified for inclusion.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and the
transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by mid-1981, more
than three years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is
estimated at $124.2 million, an increase of about 35% over the original
estimate ($92 million). The closing date of the loan has been postponed from
December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of
the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is behind schedule, and is expected to be
completed one year later than estimated. The foreign exchange component is
now estimated at $57.1 million (including additional works) compared with the
original estimate of $58.0 million; surplus funds will be used to expand
substations to increase the reliability of the system. Due to delays in
procurement and because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the
closing date of the loan will need to be extended to mid-1983.  NlPC has still
been unable to meet the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan
Agreement and the Government has yet to provide specific assurances that
appropriate action will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being
followed up by the Bank.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547       Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
After earlier improvements in implementation, the project is now
behind schedule. About 300,000 house connections were made in 1980, compared
with NEA's target of 487,000. NEA's financial performance in 1979 was good,
but adjustments to the audited accounts for 1978 resulted in a net loss of
P10.3 million ($1.4 million). The Bank has now made a number of recommenda-
tions to improve the audit reports prepared by the Commission on Audit. NEA
is making efforts to monitor the financial performance of the cooperatives and
for the first time has published the financial results of the cooperatives as
a supplement to its 1979 report.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998        Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been almost
fully drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is also substantially disbursed.
Loan No. 1052       Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
After some slowdown in commitments and disbursements experienced in
1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed. Overall progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190       Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower than expected
due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a whole, improved
in 1978 and 1979.  The loan has since been fully committed by DBP for
subprojects.  Disbursements are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
As of January 31, 1981 commitments under the loan amounted to $25.6
million. The project progress is satisfactory.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily and the loan
allocation for this component has been fully committed. However,
cancellation/withdrawal of some subloans earlier committed under the loan
has left an uncommitted balance of $6.5 million under the loan allocation
($50 million) for medium/large industry financing. The overall progress
of loan commitment and disbursement is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After the introduction of policy changes in IGLF in late 1979,
IGLF's loan commitment rate has accelerated. As a result, disbursements
under the IGLF component ($24.5 million) amounted to $10.4 million as of
January 31, 1981 and are expected to be completed before the loan closing
date. The reorganization within the Ministry of Industry has considerably
slowed down disbursements under the MASICAP component ($500,000). Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness. November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; studies are under way to
review and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion
system; and subsector development programs are under preparation to assist
domestic industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization
measures. About $84 million of the first tranche of $100 million had been
drawn down by April 1, 1981 and the Government had entered into commitments to
utilize nearly half of the $5 million technical assistance component to help
formulate and implement various industrial policy measures. The availability



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
of the second tranche of $95 million has been temporarily delayed to allow the
Government additional time to finalize and adopt the final phase of the tariff
reform and trade liberalization program.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of November 1980, 198 of the 219 training centers and rural
health units and about 93% of all construction work had been completed.
Procurement of furniture and vehicles has been completed, with some items of
equipment still remaining. Problems associated with the phasing out of the
old Project Management Staff with the resultant loss of continuity and
coordination, and with continuing delays in budget release and austerity
measures have severely restricted project activities, and the closing date of
June 30, 1981 will not be met. Before agreeing to an extension to the closing
date, the Bank is requiring, among other conditions, that the required budget
funds be released to the Ministry of Health and that a suitably qualified
person be hired as a consultant to coordinate project activities. If these
conditions are met, it is expected that the project will close by December
1982, three years behind schedule.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
All sites for POPCOMs offices, warehouses and vehicle maintenance
workshops and 126 of the 158 sites for the Ministry of Health's health centers
and barangay health stations required for the 1981 construction program have
been acquired and surveyed, and the remaining 32 sites are being obtained.
Operation research and communication production works are on schedule and
procurement documents are being processed for vehicles and equipment. The
National Primary hlealth Care policy paper, implementation guidelines and
primers for health workers have been finalized, and orientation and training
workshops for intersectoral development and health staff have been conducted
in six regions. With the exception of the primary health care component,
overall progress has been slow, and as of December 1980 disbursements had
barely started. The Bank has provided the Government with a list of
recommended actions designed to improve the project inanagement capacity of
POPCOM and MOH; however, initial delays in budget release and recent changes
in project management may cause slippage in the project completion date.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                    Seven months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                The Central Bank of
the Philippines
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to
consider the project:                             December 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:                   August 1980
(e)  Negotiations completed:                           March 31, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    July 1, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
In order to help the Central Bank develop into a strong
development-oriented apex institution with adequate capacity to carry out
its intended functions, Bank staff would, during the project implementation
period, supervise the project more frequently and with greater intensity
than is the norm for a DFC project.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Agreement by the Government on an "Action Program" to address
a number of DBP's institutional, operational and financial
problems (para. 68);
(b) Before the $4.0 million "free limit" is applied, the Bank would
scrutinize a reasonable number of subproject reviews done by ADFU
to satisfy itself that ADFU has developed acceptable subproject
review standards (para. 70);
(c) The Central Bank would, by July 31, 1981, secure about $100 million
for the project from international financial markets (para. 73);
and



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The proceeds of the proposed loan (and funds raised from the
international financial market) would be relent by the Central
Bank (ADFU) to individual PFIs under Subsidiary Loan Agreements
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 74).



- 51 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 8
411ini%ofrp of YinnrnI
A41 tnilu
13 March 1981
Mr. Robert MNamara
President
International Bank for Reccnstruction and Development
1818 H Street
Washingtcn, D.C., U. S. A.
Dear Mr. McNamara:
In connection with the loan application for relending to the private
sector, I wish to outline the financial sector policies which the Philip-
pines is pursuing.
Financial Sector Policy
1.  The Philippines is undertaking major reforms in its financial
system with a view to making it more responsive  to the imperatives of
the next stages of economic development. With increasing modernization
of the agricultural sector and the need to restructure industrial grnw7th
to operate in an internationally more competitive environment, there
will be a growing demand for savings and for effective ways of &daanneling
such savings to priority investments. This will require not only a
higher rate of savings but also a need that a greater proportion of these
savings be in financial form and intermediated through the financial sys-
tem. Furthermore the availability of and access to longer term funds
will have to be increased. The efficiency of the system will also have
to be improved through increased competition and possiblities of economies
of scale. These are the underlying objectives towards which changes are
being directed in the financial system.
2.  The reforms are well advanced and coibine elements of evolution and
innovation. The reforms are addressed to both the suppliers' and users'
sides of the financial system and therefore camprehend the whole pro-
cess of financial intermediation.
3.  The key thrust is flexibility.  Institutionally, financial inter-
mediaries are being made more flexible by reducing the differentiation
among the various categories and broadening their powers. For exarope,
certain banks may now go into equity instead of oonfining themselves to



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8
- 52 -
lending. In monetary policy, the Monetary Board is exercising the
flexible powers newly conferred on it by law to simplify the interest
rate structure and make it more market-oriented. Savers can expect a
better return on their savings, while users must be prepared to bear
the cost of funds better reflecting the realities of a world infla-
tionary environment. Both savers and users are being given incentives
to go into long-term transactions.
4.      The authorities, however, are cognizant of the need to be prag-
matic and believe that a rigid adherence to strict models is bound to
create problems. The expansion of powers of certain categories of
financial institutions does not operate automatically; it is dependent
on a level of entreprenuerial skill, managerial expertise and resource
adequacy which must be monitored and encouraged by the authorities.
Likewise, the trend away from specialization does not absolve us from
the need for devising special programs for critical areas like agri-
culture and housing.
5.      Furthermore, unrestrained market forces solely determining levels
of interest rates are hard to justify at this stage in view of the fact
that the financial system is more of an oligopolistic system than a per-
fectly competitive one. Thus, the case for greater market orientation
has to be approached gradually and tempered by the need for regulatory
and indicative magnitudes which would serve as fulcrums around which the
system would function.
6.      The basis for the changes adopted in 1980 was set out in seven
laws, which amended the legislative framework of the banking system.
The legislative changes have been supported by appropriate revision of
banking regulations, changes in monetary policy and procedures and
amendments in tax laws to give needed fiscal incentives for achievement
of the objectives of the reforms.
7.      The heart of the reform consists of a revision of the banking
structure and has the following main features:
(a) The introduction of a new type of institution-
"expanded commercial banks"- which would have
statutory ability to perform both commercial
and investment banking functions, including
investments in equities.
(b) A reduction in differentiation among the
various categories of financial institutions
by permitting thrift banks full domestic
banking powers and by changing the unit
concept of rural banks through regional
association of federations, or through
mergers and consolidations to branch banking
and to give them ability to mobilize larger
resources and service larger clients and to
diversify their activities.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
- 53 -
(c) An increase in the powers of nonbank financial
intermediaries (NBFIs) and the grant to them
of access to Central Bank credit facilities.
(d) The institutional structure has been made
flexible and the Monetary Board has been
given discretionary powers to permit one
category of institution to evolve into a
higher category.
8.      Subject to compliance with eligibility criteria, to be estab-
lished from time to time by the Monetary Board, commercial banks and
investment houses can apply to become "expanded" banks and thrift and
rural banks can seek to become commercial banks. Generally speaking,
the Monetary Board will permit movement from one category to another
on the basis of financial resources, technical and professional
capability and demonstrated past performance. Instead of the cate-
gorized specialization of the past, the functional growth of financial
institutions has now been made an evolutionary process, controlled by
discretionary powers vested with the Monetary Board.
9.      Besides the objectives of reducing categorized specialization
to bring about greater competition as between various types of insti-
tutions and to make their operations more efficient, one primary ob-
Jective of the banking reforms is to lengthen the maturity of lending.
Accordingly, the following measures have been introduced:
(a) The Government has adopted a flexible interest
rate policy and has moved toward deregulation
of interest rates. Ceilings on loans of
maturities in excess of 730 days have been
abolished. Banks have also been permitted
to charge variable interest rates on their
long-term loans to protect lending margins
in situations where there is a rise in re-
placement cost of short-term funds used for
term lending. Likewise, to assist in
mobilization of long-term funds, interest
rate ceilings on all types of deposits have
been abolished, except on demand deposits
for which no interest is paid. However,
loans of up to 730 days' maturity will still
be subject to ceilings of 18% for chattel
loans and 16% for loans secured by land, both
of which already incorporate the 2% service
fee.
(b) Reserve requirements against most deposit
funds are to be reducedZl6% and made uni-
form for all financial intermediaries
authorized to accept such deposits. The
reduction will mitigate the cost pressures
on lending rates while standardization
shall place lending



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8
- 54 -
institutions on a more equal footing to
enhance competition. Undesirable excesses
in liquidity that may result from such re-
ductions will be controlled by appropriate
measures like open market operations.
Conversely, a 5% reserve requirement shall
be imposed on long-term deposits (over
730 days) that will provide both a monitor
and control mechanism on the growth of such
deposits. The magnitude of such a require-
ment is deemed to have only a marginal effect
on long-term lending rates.
(c) Rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank
to extend perferential credit to priority
activities have been further simplified. Re-
discount value of loans were narrowed down to
two ranges: namely 100% and 80%. Rediscount
rate and the corresponding ceilings on lending
rates have also been reduced resulting in three
basic spreads of 3, 6 and 9 per cent between
the rediscount rates and the lending rates.
(d) A lender-of-last resort facility on a consistent
and essentially automatic basis has been estab-
lished by the Central Bank to enable banks to
tide over temporary liquidity problems that
might arise as a result of term transformation
or other factors.
(e) The Government has provided a number of fiscal
incentives to the commercial banks to become
"expanded banks" and lengthen the maturity of
their lending. The gross recipts tax now pro-
gressively declines as loan maturities get longer
and there is no such tax on interest income on
loan maturities exceeding seven years. More-
over,dividend income of the "expanded banks" will
be exempt from corporate tax. Finally, the
capital gains arising from banks' mergers and
consolidation will also be exempt from tax.
(f) The Monetary Board has been given discretionary
powers to lower the equity to risk assets ratio
to provide increased leverage to banks to en-
able them to increase their long-term loan portfolio.



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 8
- 55 -
Provided the banks mieet the necessary conditions, their
risk assets ratio can be reduced fran 10% to 8% or even 6%.
10. The Government intends to monitor closely the perfonriance of the
financial sector, and will ensure, through such additional muasures as
may be necessary, that it fully and adequately supports and assists in
the realization of the objectives of Government's industrial policy.
Whereas Government will remain sensitive to ensuring that the financial
needs of developnent are being fully met and would take necessary legis-
lative, regulatory and administrative actions, the following are same
important specific cbjectives which the Government would seek to achieve
in the next two years:
(a) The initial net worth eligibility of P500 million for
licensing of "expanded banks" reflects the cautious atti-
tude on the part of the Government. Tnvestment banking,
particularly equity financing, requires a sophisticated
organization, professional capacity and financial strength.
On the other hand, Government is cognizant of the fact that
"expanded" authority in the hands of only a few large
institutions may not result in sufficient competition
and the needs of the smaller borrowers and new entrepre-
neurs may not be satisfied. It is, therefore, Covernmint's
intention to make "expanded" banking more broad-based by
encouraging wider public ownership and conpetition among
a larger number of "expanded banks" either by hastening
the process of institutional mergers and consolidation so
that more institutions become eligible and/or by lowering
the net worth qualification limit. Such acticn, however,
will be taken after Government has had sufficient opportu-
nity to evaluate the perfonnance of expanded banks that
are now being licensed and after it has acruired sufficient
know-how to monitor and guide their operations.
(b) The Government has ^iready adopted measures under
its industrial policy to encourage the expansion
of export industries and, in addition to fiscal
incentives, short-term special discounting facilities
are available in the Central Bank for export finance.
The Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee
Corporation has established a guarantee facility
for loans to exporters from commercial banks. In
addition, a Cottage Industry Guarantee Fund has
also been set up to support the financial require-
ments of the cottage industry that is predominantly
composed of small-scale producers and mainly oriented
towards exports. In the light of changing export
structure, the need for a medium-term export finan-
cing was considered which resulted in the recent
creation of the Export Credit Corporation.



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 8
- 56 -
(c) Although the 1980 financial sector reforms will strengthen
the rural banking system, it is one of Gbvernment's dbjectives
to further examine the working of rural banks to make them
less dependent on Gbvernrent funds, more businesslike in
their approach and more self-sustaining and profit-oriented
in their operations.
(d) The crucial area of agricultural credit as a whole needs to
be examined in the respective roles of the various government
financial institutions such as Land Bank of the Philippines,
the Development Bank of the Philippines and the Central Bank,
as well as private financial intermediaries. The dajective
will be to construct an agricultural credit structure which
will best suit the needs of this sector. The susceptibility
of agricultural crops to adverse factors beyond the control
of the farmer-borrcwer undermines the latter's capacity to
service his debt, weakens the credit system and inpairs his
access to further credit. In spite of extensive government
programs to control and minimize such unpredictable factors
and their adverse effects on farm production, crop failures
will continue to occur. Nevertheless such programs have to
same extent reduced the risks of crop failure and inproved the
feasibility of reasonably priced insurance protection on a
sound actuarial basis for same crops. The Philippine Crop
Insurance Corporation has been set up recently and shall
initially extend coverage to rice crop where actuarial data
on yields and losses have been established for past ten years.
Coverage shall expand to other crops as more experience in
gained.
(e) The provision of housing remains one of the major concerns of
the (bvernrment. The resource mcbilization capacity of thrift
banks for hcae financing is expected to be increased by the
banking reforms. In addition the Cbvernment has already set up
several entities including the Home Nbrtgage Finance Corporation
and the Hcme Mitual Developmnent Fund with the cb jective of
increasing available housing finance. Developments will be
monitored and kept under review to encourage private investment
and initiatives in the financing and supply of housing.
(f)  The (bvernment is cognizant of the need to make more efficient
use of insurance and social security funds. These funds are
essentially long term in nature but, on the other hand, considering
their social security character, it is necessary to protect them
from excessive risk exposure. The Gbvernnent is aware that in
the past, social security and insurance funds have been used for
direct investment in projects which may have carried excessive
risk and liquidity exposure.  It is Gbvernment's intention to use
insurance and social security funds in the future as an inportant
ccmponent in the development of a long term financial market.



ANNEX IV
-57 -                          Page 7 of 8
For this purpose it shall seek to devise policies which, without
exposing such funds to undue risks, will ensure their flcw to the
mist financially and econanically desirS le sectors. To limit
the risk without interfering in the direction of ultimate flcw of
funds the (bvernment will encourage such funds to be invested in
high grade bonds and securities.
(g) The Central Bank extends discounting facilities on a preferential
basis to channel credit to desirable econcmic activities. The
(bvernTent is aware that such stbsidized allocative discounting
can result in misallocation of resources. To safeguard against
this, this preferential rediscounting policy shall constantly be
reviEwed in order to ensure that only sectors justified by rigorous
econcoiic analysis will receive preferential treatnent. The recent
simplifications of the structure of rediscounting provides an
improved framework for such ccmparative analysis.
(h) The Gbvernnent recognizes that in the final analysis, a grcwing
part of the long-term credit needs for developrent will have to
be met by the capital market. This has beccome more urgent because
"expanded banks" would need an active secondary market to revolve
their portfolio and generate liquidity for further investment in
equities. On the other hand, the participation of these banks will
reinforce support for non-speculative issues in the stock market.
While steps have been taken to develop the capital market--including
the licensing of stock exchanges, estzblishment of the Securities
and Exchange Camnission, and revision of the ccxmercial code to
provide a legal frameork for its grcwth---these neasures have not
resulted in the desired structure, with stock market activities
dominated by highly speculative transactions. Therefore, the
(bvernment intends to prepare a plan of action to develop, strengthen
and streamline the network of institutions and regulatory authorities
constituting the capital market.
11.    The specialized Cbvernrrent banks were created by the Gbvernment to cater
to particular needs. WhiLe these institutions will, in their operations, continue
to stress the purposes for which they were created, they will, on the other hand,
align themselves more closely with the cbjective of the Gbvernrment's current
developroent policy and will be given greater autonomy and freedom in portfolio
selection. The 3vernment intends to reviEw the regulations governing the
interest rates charged by these institutions to ensure that their rates are
carpatible with both (bvernment's current interest rate policy and with the
cb jective of developrent of long- term lending by private financial institutions.
12.    The Cbvernnet believes that realistic interest rates increase financial
savings and improve allocation of resources and, in principle, it favors positive
real interest rate in relation to inflation. Hcwever, complete deregulation of
interest rates in the Gbvernnent's viEw is undesirable at this time. Rapid
changes in interest rates in response to short term fluctuations in the
inflationary situation could be destabilizing and result in an uncertain financial



ANNEX IV
- 58 -                           Page 8 of 8
climate. Besides, such change may be unnecessary, particularly when the
Gbvernment is adopting other measures open to it to control inflation. An
excessively high rate of interest can complicate efforts to contain inflation.
There are transactions balances, such as demand deposits and even perhaps
savings deposits to scome extent, which are interest-inelastic and it would
be a misapplication of interest-rate policy to use it in a shotgun fashion.
Mbreover, the financial market is not a perfectly competitive one and market
rates may reflect the influence of oligopolistic elements. In the context
of these considerations, the Gbvernment is ccmnitted to the general princi-
ple of positive real interest rates, both on timie deposits and loans.
Positive real rates must, hcwever, be based on definitive underlying infla-
tionary trends, as distinct from short-term fluctuations in price indices
brought about by transitory or external factors beyond Gbvernment's control.
In this regard, the Gbvernment will establish suitzble criteria and set up
appropriate nechanism for a regular review of the interest rate structure,
including interest paid on savings deposits and NOW accounts.
In view of the thrust to further develop the industrial and financial
sectors, we would appreciate your favorable consideration of the Gbvernment's
request for a financial sector loan of $150 million. We have developed
this proposal and the reforms in the financial and industrial sectors in
close cooperation with the Bank and, therefore, we look forward to the
continuing Consultations about the program of implementation.
Sincerely yours,
CESAR VIRATA
Minister of Finance
cv



C-) S                                               St
1j4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C4
w                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
_~~~~~~ I
| m gX5 laz             -E4Ei{t 0t5gggDItiz l
0                                                                  . -  S   ;4   n-J  stD   
V;K i-           '    '--*:'-   ..g.8,z n-;,_,                                                                                                     <
ZO1                            fl
.WR   111j3,111H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
HM~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                            -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0w
HHI



