 rl      CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1984 PH
Memorandum of Agreement
(Philippines - Industrial Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LLOYDS BANK INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
Dated August 7, 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1984 PH
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Agreement dated August 7, 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the "World Bank") and
LLYODS BANK INTERNATIONAL LIMITED in its capacity as agent for
itself and the Private Banks as defined below (the "Agent").
WHEREAS (A) the World Bank has agreed to lend to the Central
Bank of the Philippines (the "Borrower") an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US$150,000,000 ( the "World Bank Loan"),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement dated
May 28, 1981 (the "World Bank Loan Agreement") to assist in
the financing of specific development projects through loans to
and investments in industrial enterprises in the Republic of the
Phili,pines (the "Project").
(B) Certain private banks including the Agent (the "Private
Banks") have agreed to lend to the Borrower US$100,000,000 (the
"Private Banks Loan"), for the Project, on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement dated August 7, 1981 (the
"Private Banks Loan Agreement").
(C) The Agent has agreed to act as agent for the Private
Banks under the Private Banks Loan Agreement.
(D) The World Bank and the Agent, acting on its own behalf
and on behalf of the Private Banks, have exchanged information
on the Borrower, the Project and the country in which the Project
is located, and other matters of common interest, and have deemed
it convenient to make arrangements, with the consent of the
Borrower, for the continued exchange of such information and for
the other matters hereinafter set out.
IT IS AGREED as follows:
1.   Interpretation
In this Agreement, except to the extent that the context
requires otherwise, terms defined in the World Bank Loan Agreement
and the Private Banks Loan Agreement shall have the meanings
therein given to them.
2.   Information
The World Bank and the Agent shall as soon as practicable
make available to each other all information received from the
Borrower that may be of common interest with respect to the


﻿- 2 -
service, or the accomplishment of the purpose, of their respec-
tive loans, except information received by the World Bank or the
Agent or any Private Bank which the recipient, in its sole judg-
ment, considers to be of a confidential nature.
3.   Consultation
The World Bank and the Agent, on its own behalf and on behalf
of the Private Banks, shall (a) to the extent practicable, afford
each other a reasonable opportunity to exchange views before
taking any action which may lead to (i) the suspension, can-
cellation, or acceleration of their respective loans, or (ii) a
substantial amendment of the Project, and (b) at the request of
either party, exchange views on any substantial and adverse change
in the financial condition of the Borrower or in the progress
or cost of the Project; provided, however, that this shall in no
way limit or impair the independent right of decision and action
of the World Bank or of the Agent and the Private Banks under the
World Bank Loan Agreement or the Private Banks Loan Agreement,
respectively.
4.   Service Payments of the Private Banks Loan
(a) Notice: The Agent shall (whenever practicable), not
more than 90 days nor less than 60 days before each
Interest Payment Date, give notice to the World Bank
of:
(i) the date of such Interest Payment Date;
(ii) the amount of interest to be due and payable
under the Private Banks Loan Agreement on
such Interest Payment Date; and
(iii) the principal amount, if any, of the Private
Banks Loan to be due and payable on such
Interest Payment Date.
(b) Billing: The World Bank shall, on behalf of the Agent
and on the basis of the information received not later
than 60 days before the relevant Interest Payment Date
from the Agent pursuant to the preceding paragraph or,
in the case of information received later than such
time, on the basis of reasonable endeavours only,
bill the Borrower for payment to the account referred to


﻿-3-
in paragraph (c) below of the amounts of principal and
interest to be paid by the Borrower under the Private
Banks Loan Agreement, with the same advance notice and
using substantially the same procedures as it applies
to similar billings for the World Bank's own loans, but
in any event within 30 days of its receipt of such
notice, and shall promptly send a copy of such bills to
the Agent. In the event of the World Bank not being able
to so bill the Borrower not less than 15 days prior to
an Interest Payment Date for whatever reason it shall so
notify the Agent.
(c) Payments: All amounts received by the Agent on account
of payment of principal and interest for which the World
Bank will have billed the Borrower pursuant to the
preceding paragraphs shall be credited to the Agent's
account number 130-408-9 at Lloyds Bank International
Limited, 95 Wall Street, New York, N.Y. 10005, attention
of Loans Department under reference "CBP-LBI-World Bank
co-financing".
(d) Late Payment: If any such payment from the Borrower is
not received on time, the Agent shall give written
notice thereof to the World Bank, and the World Bank
shall, on behalf of the Agent and the Private Banks,
promptly request the Borrower, by cable or telex (with a
copy to the Agent), that such payment be made.
(e) Responsibility for Billing: The World Bank shall not
have any responsibility with respect to billing or
payment of amounts owed by the Borrower, to the Agent or
Private Banks other than as specified above.
(f) Failure by Agent: If the Agent for any reason shall fail
or be unable to give such notice to the World Bank, then
the Agent or the Private Banks may give their own
notifications to the Borrower and proceed pursuant to
the Private Banks Loan Agreement in any manner that they
think fit.
5.   Responsibility Generally
(a) Neither the World Bank, the Agent nor any of the Private
Banks has relied on or will rely on any other or others
of them to inquire into or verify the accuracy of any


﻿information provided by the Borrower or to review or
evaluate the condition of the Borrower, the Project
or the country where the Project is located.
(b) Each of the World Bank, the Agent and the Private Banks
has and will take, or refrain from taking, any decision
or act under or in relation to the World Bank Loan
Agreement or the Private Banks Loan Agreement, as the
case may be, on the basis only of its own independent
judgment, without reliance on the information provided
by, or expected from or the views expressed by, any
other or others of them.
6.   Assignment
The rights or obligations of the World Bank or the Agent
under this Agreement shall not be assigned or otherwise trans-
ferred to any third party (including a substitute agent of the
Private Banks under the Private Banks Loan Agreement) without the
written consent of the other party.
7.   Notices
Any notice or request given or made pursuant to this Agree-
ment shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered to the following addresses:
For the World Bank:            For the Agent:
International Bank for         Llyods Bank International
Reconstruction and             Limited
Development               G.P.O. Box 10126
1818 H Street, N.W.            2901 Admiralty Centre,
Washington, D.C.               Tower 1,
Hong Kong
Cable Address:                 Cable Address:
INTBAFRAD                      LOYBANINT
Washington, D.C.               Hong Kong


﻿-5-
Telex:                          Telex:
440098 (ITT)                    63504 or
248423 (RCA) or                 75267 LOYBK HX
64145 (WUI)
Attn.: Loans Administration
Deparment Agency
This Agreement will come into force and effect upon signature
by the World Bank and the Agent and acceptance by the Borrower.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR               LLOYDS BANK
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT       INTERNATIONAL LIMITED
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox            By /s/ Thomas W. Scott
Kevin J. Wallace
ACCEPTED:
CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Jaime C. Laya


