DOCUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 1984 PH
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated                         ,1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1984 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated %Ln            , 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement by extending the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from financial institu-
tions an amount in foreign currency equivalent to $100,000,000
to be made available to the Apex Development Finance Unit for its
operations on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements
(hereinafter called the Commercial Loan Agreements) to be entered
into by the Borrower with respective financial institutions;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ADFU" means the Apex Development Finance Unit of
the Borrower established pursuant to Resolution No. 1490 dated
August 15, 1980 of the Monetary Board of the Borrower;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Participating Financial Institutions" meanr such
financial institutions as may be accredited by the Borrower with
the concurrence of the Bank for participation in the Project;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and each Participating Financial
Institution pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, .s the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan" means the amount made available by the
Borrower to a Participating Financial Institution under the pro-
visions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Financial Institution out of the proceeds of the
Subsidiary Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
(f) "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g) "Investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by a Participating Financial Institu-
tion out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(h) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
a Participating Financing Institution proposes to make or has made
a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made an invest-
ment;
(i) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment;
(j) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor;
(k) "Operating Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines
for the operation of ADFU established pursuant to Resolution No.
1290 dated July 18, 1980 of the Monetary Board of the Borrower,
as said Guidelines may be amended from time to time with the
concurrence of the Bank; and


﻿-3-
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods,
civil works or services required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested:
(i) such amounts as shall have been expended (or if
the Bank shall so agree, shall be required to meet
expenditures to be made) in a foreign currency
for goods procured, or services supplied from,
outside the territories of the Guarantor;
(ii) 70% of the cost of imported goods procured locally;
(iii) the equivalent of 50% of such amounts as shall
have been expended for goods produced in the
territories of the Guarantor, which percentage
represents the estimated foreign exchange component
of such goods; and
(iv) the equivalent of 45% of such amounts as shall have
been expended for civil works, which percentage
represents the estimated foreign exchange component
of such works;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
an Investment Project unless (A) the sub-loan or investment for
such Investment Project shall have been approved by the Bank, or
(B) the sub-loan for such Investment Project shall be a free-limit
sub-loan.


﻿(b) a free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Subsidiary Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $4,000,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of
the borrowing under the Commercial Loan Agreements provided,
however, that said free-limit shall be applicable from such date
as the Bank shall have established and notified the Borrower for
the purposes of this Agreement and, until the Bank has established
such date, such amounts as the Borrower shall have specified
as the free-limit in respect of each Participating Financial
Institution in the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each
Participating Financial Institution.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement, (ii) expenditures by an Invest-
ment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval or in respect of an investment if such expenditures shall
have been made more than 120 days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or
investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement, (iii) in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which ADFU
shall have received from the Participating Financial Institution
in respect of such free-limit sub-loan (A) a summary description
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and (B) the terms and conditions of the
sub-loan including the schedule of amortization therefor or (iv)
expenditures by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan
exceeding the equivalent of $6,000,000 when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and of the borrowing under the Commercial
Loan Agreements.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provision of this Section,
no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan or an investment
unless the sponsoring Participating Financial Institution has
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower pur-
suant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement and the Borrower has
furnished to the Bank a certificate stating that said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and such


﻿Participating Financial Institution and is legally binding upon
the parties thereto.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the
Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the-Loan and
methods and procedures to be used for the procurement of goods,
works and services required for the Investment Project, (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of
repayment to the Borrower of the amount of the Loan to be used for
the investment, and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for making initial with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan
shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on
or before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing, through Participating Financial Insti-
tutions, such productive facilities and resources in the Republic
of the Philippines as will contribute to the economic and social
development of the country. The Project consists in the financing
of specific development projects through loans to and investments
in industrial enterprises in the Republic of the Philippines
in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Participating
Financial Institutions.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
the operations and affairs of ADFU in accordance with sound
financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Operating
Policy Guidelines.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan and of the borrowing under the Commercial Loan Agreements
to the Participating Financial Insitutions under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each
Participating Financial Institution under such terms and condi-
tions as shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall, except
as the Bank may otherwise agree, include inter alia, those set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be


﻿- 7 -
made on terms whereby the Participating Financial Institutions
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case
of any sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in
the case of any investment, the right of the Participating Finan-
cial Institutions to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Borrower, and if the Bank shall so request, with the Bank, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be. made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Participating Financial
Institutions.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Participating Financial
Institutions to exercise their rights in relation to each Invest-
ment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with their obligations


﻿- 8 -
under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Participating Financial
Institutions, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months, or such other date as the Bank may
agree, following the last withdrawal from the Loan Account, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Investment Projects,
their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from them,
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action and
exercise all such recourse available to it under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements with the Participating Financial Institutions as
the Bank may request in order to ensure the prompt and full
performance of each Participating Financial Institution of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be maintained
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and resources of ADFU and of the Participating
Financial Institutions, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which


﻿-9-
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) related to ADFU for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of the financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) above of this Section
4.01 as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements related to ADFU and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the fore-
going provisions of this Secton shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.03. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and


﻿- 10 -
resources of ADFU and of the Participating Financial Institutions,
and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and resources of ADFU and of the Participating
Financial Institutions.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall, by July 31, 1981,
contract the Commercial Loan Agreements referred to in Recital (B)
of this Agreement, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank to make available to ADFU an amount in foreign currency
equivalent to $100,000,000.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that the provisions of Sections
2.02 and 2.03 of this Agreement shall apply mutatis mutandis to
any loan to be made to an Investment Enterprise out of the
proceeds of the Commercial Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Operating Policy
Guidelines without the Bank's consent;
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action for disestab-
listment of ADFU; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Commercial Loan Agreements; or
(B) any loan made to the Borrower under the
Commercial Loan Agreements shall have become
due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of


﻿- 11 -
the Bank that such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreements.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of A   l, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Central Bank of the Philippines
Manila
Philippines


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:
PHILCENBANK
Manila
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CENTRAL BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1986                   5,000,000
through February 15, 2001
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     5.30%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                     7.70%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                     8.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Relending Terms
A.   From the Borrower to the Participating Financial Insti-
tutions:
1.   Interest rate (a) on funds withdrawn from the Loan
Account, equal to the rate specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement plus a service charge of not less than three fourths of
one per cent (0.75%) per annum, and (b) on funds withdrawn from
Commercial Loan Agreements, equal to the rate specified in the
respective Commercial Loan Agreements plus a service charge of
not less than one-eighth of one per cent per annum.
2.   Commitment charge of not less than three-fourths of one
per cent (0.75%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time and, in respect of Commercial Loan
Agreements, commitment charge, if any, as specified in the
respective Commercial Loan Agreements.
3.   Repayment to conform in relevant part substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-
loans and the schedules of repayment in respect of investments.
4.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, interest
rates shall be reviewed by the Borrower every six months and in
the event of any change, the revised rate shall be applicable on
new loans/commitments.
5.   Foreign exchange risk to be passed on to the Investment
Enterprises.
B.   From Participating Financial Institutions to Investment
Enterprises:
1.   Interest rate inclusive of service charge of not more
than 4.50% per annum above the interest rate inclusive
of service charge at which funds received from the
Borrower.
2.   Repayment over a period not exceeding 15 years including
an appropriate period of grace.
3.   Foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Investment
Enterprise.
4.   An appropriate commitment charge.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Sec-
tion 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) of such Section shall have been received by the
Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the
Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applica-
tions or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        1981.
FOR SECRETARY


