CREDIT NUMBER 686 BA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT         -
(Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project)
between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 25, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1977, between THE SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out
by No. 2 Mining Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to No. 2
Mining Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitiors
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and No. 2 Mining Corporation
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and


﻿-2-
(b)   "MC2" means the No. 2 Mining Corporation of the
Borrower, established and operating under the Myanma Tin and
Tungsten Corporation Act of 1974 and Notification No. 28/76
of August 3, 1976.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for tie Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1987, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2026, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Managing Director of MC2 is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with reference to Parts A, B, C and D of the Project.
(b)  The Deputy Minister of Mines or such other person as
may be appointed in writing by such Deputy Minister is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with reference to Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause MC2 to carry out Parts A
through D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit equivalent to fifteen million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($15,800,000) to MC2 under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and MC2 under terms and


﻿conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
such agreement shall provide, inter alia, that MC2 shall pay
periodically to the Borrower amounts representing (i) interest at
an annual rate of ten per cent (10%) on the principal amount so
relent and outstanding from time to time and (ii) amortization of
the principal amount so relent over a term of fifteen years,
including five years of grace, from the date of such agreement,
and that the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by MC2.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction on the obligations
of the Borrower under paragraph (a) of this Section, (i) the
Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed by MC2 and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, an amount in the
currency of the Borrower equivalent to six million dollars
($6,000,000) for carrying out the Project; and (ii) whenever there
is reasonable cause to believe that the amount referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, or the amount available to
MC2 in other currencies, shall be inadequate to meet the estimated
expenditures required for carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall provide or cause to be provided to MC2 on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association such funds as shall be
required to meet such expenditures.
(d) The Borrower shall carry out Part E of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(e)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part
E of the Project, the Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1977, or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, and the Borrower shall commence the study referred to
in Part E of the Project not later than three months thereafter.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1979 or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, improve to an all-weather condition the
unsurfaced road between Tavoy and Heinze Basin.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause MC2 to employ and
continue to employ engineering and management consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, in order to assist MC2
in the engineering for, management of, procurement of goods for,
supervision of construction included in, and commencement of
operation of, the Project, and in the operation for at least the
first two years of the facilities included in the Project,
overseas training of key technicians, improvement of MC2's
operating and financial controls, preparation of the manpower plan
referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement, and improvement of
the physical export of tin and tungsten concentrates.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MC2 to continue to employ
the consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section as
long as their assistance is necessary to the efficient operation
of the facilities included in the Project and not to reduce or
terminate such assistance except after an exchange of views with
the Association on the desirability of such action.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause MC2 to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by MC2 to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause MC2 to furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 6 -
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause MC2 to duly perform
all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
MC2 not to take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause MC2, at the
request of the Association, to exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause MC2 promptly to inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by MC2 of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, during the implementation
of the Project, (a) permit MC2 to retain its entire net revenues
as defined in Section 4.10 (c) (v) of this Agreement and (b)
provide on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
and consistent with its obligations under Section 4.10 of this
Agreement, such funds as are necessary for MC2 to meet any cash
shortfall for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take the necessary measures
to ensure prompt review of, and decisions on, all matters
concerned with procurement of goods and services required for the
Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall review with the Association
the recommendations of the study included in Part E of the Project
and take the necessary steps to implement measures based upon such
review agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause its Minerals Marketing
Committee to take appropriate measures with a view to improving
marketing efficiency, and shall grant to such Committee such
authority as shall be required to improve marketing efficiency,
including, inter alia, the authority to enter into long-term
smelter contracts whenever such Committee deems appropriate.
Section 4.02. The Borrower will provide MC2 with any funds
required by MC2, over and above its own resources, to enable MC2
to meet its normal maintenance expenditures, capital expenditures
associated with the Project but incurred after the completion
thereof, the liquidity requirements prescribed in Section 4.09 of
this Agreement and the ratio of debt to equity referred to in
Section 4.10 of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause MC2: (a) to manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
sound administrative, financial, engineering, mining and
environmental practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management assisted by qualified and competent
staff;
(b)  to take all action reasonably required to maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business; and
(c)  to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause MC2 to prepare and
furnish Lo the Association for its comments, not later than
December 31, 1977 or such other date as may be agreed between the
Association and MC2, a manpower plan which shall include (i) steps
to be taken to set the number of employees at MC2's various
operating locations at levels consistent with changes in output
and profitability at such locations, and (ii) a system of bonuses,
incentive schemes and special allowances to augment wages, in
appropriate cases.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause MC2, not later than
August 31, 1977 or such other date as may be agreed between the
Association and MC2, to complete and furnish to the Association
a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for reducing its
inventories and receivables to an appropriate level.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause MC2 to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of MC2.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause MC2 to take, not later than
March 31, 1978 or such other date as may be agreed between the
Association and MC2, the necessary corrective measures in the
treatment of intangible assets in relation to the equity of
MC2 in its financial statements to reflect sound accounting
practices.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause MC2: (i) to have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Director General, Central Accounts
Office, acting on behalf of the Council of People's Inspectors of
the Borrower; (ii) to furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than five months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
aucit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; (iii) to furnish to
the Association not later than 60 days after the end of each
quarter in each fiscal year its quarterly financial statements;
and (iv) to furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of MC2 and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-9-
Section 4.08. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause MC2, during the execution of the Project,
not to undertake any new investments (other than the Project) in
excess of the equivalent of $1,000,000 annually.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause MC2 at all times
to maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
not less than 2:1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "current assets" means cash, securities
readily convertible into cash, accounts receivable
realizable within one year and inventories; and
(ii) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
will be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within one year, including the portion
of long-term debt falling due within one year.
Section 4.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause MC2:
(a)  at all times to maintain a ratio of debt to equity
not greater than 60:40; and
(b)  not to incur any debt if after the incurrence thereof
its projected debt service coverage ratio would fall below 2:1
for any fiscal year after the completion of the Project, or
if MC2's ratio of debt to equity would exceed 60:40, taking
into account the debt to be incurred.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt" means any debt incurred by MC2 and maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under
a loan contract, on the date it is drawn down
but only to the extent that it is outstanding,
and (2) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
such agreement is entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿- 10 -
(iii) "debt service coverage ratio" means the ratio
between the reasonably estimated net revenues
for any fiscal year and the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any) of, and interest and other charges on,
debt payable in the same fiscal year;
(iv) "equity" means the sum of MC2's unimpaired paid-in
share capital, surplus and reserves not allocated
to specific liabilities but excluding the
intangible assets referred to in Section 4.06 (b)
of this Agreement; provided, however, that if MC2,
at the time, has any Subsidiary, there shall
be excluded therefrom such items as shall represent
equity interests of MC2 in any Subsidiary or of
any Subsidiary in MC2 or in any other Subsidiary;
(v) "net revenues" means gross revenue from all sources
less all operating and administrative expenses,
and amounts paid or to be paid within the year on
account of taxes; provided that the operating and
administrative expenses shall not include interest
and other charges on debt, and provisions for
depreciation of assets; and
(vi) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by MC2, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 11 -
(a)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of MC2 or for the suspension of its operations, without prior
agreement to such effect between the Borrower and the Association;
and
(b)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been   amended
or abrogated without prior agreement to such effect between the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
oZ the Borrower and MC2, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the acquisition by MC2 of a suitable site for the tin
and tungsten concentrating and upgrading plant at Tavoy included
in Part B of the Project; and
(c) the employment of the consultants referred to in Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
MC2, is legally binding upon the Borrower and MC2 in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date June 23, 1977 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 through 4.03, 4.06 through 4.10 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance or the
Deputy Minister of Planning and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry for Planning and Finance
Ministers' Office Post Office
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF,
THE UNION OF BURMA
By Is/ U Tin Lat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              6,000,000            100% of foreign
supplies for and                              expenditu
construction of
bucket ladder
dredge for the
Heinze Basin
(including
spare parts
and foreign
freight and
insurance)
(2) Equipment and              1,500,000           100% of foreign
supplies for tin                              expenditures
and tungsten
concentrating
facilities in
the Heinze Basin
and Tavoy (in-
cluding spare
parts and for-
eign freight and
insurance)
(3) Equipment and              1,500,000            100% of foreign
supplies for                                  expenditures
gravel pump tin
mining (including
spare parts and
foreign freight
and insurance)


﻿- 15 -
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(4) Transport and               1,500,000           100% of foreign
earthmoving                                    expenditures
equipment,
consisting of
earthmovers, tug,
barges, boats and
vehicles (including
spare parts and
foreign freight
and insurance)
(5) Ancillary equipment        2,000,000            100% of foreign
and supplies for                               expenditures
offices, labora-
tories, workshops,
power and water
supply, housing
and auxiliary
buildings (includ-
ing spare parts
and foreign freight
and insurance)
(6) Engineering, project       1,500,000            100% of foreign
management assis-                              expenditures
tance, operational
supervision, and
training
(7) Study under Part             200,000            100% of foreign
E of the Project                               expenditures
(8) Unallocated                1,800,000
TOTAL     16,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as
required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficent to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way


﻿- 17 -
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to strengthen and expand the
operations of MC2 and to study the future development of the
mining sector and consists of:
A.   Provision of dredging and related concentrating and
infrastructural facilities at Heinze Basin, 300 kilometers
southeast of Rangoon, to produce about 650 long tons per year
of tin concentrate by fiscal year 1981, and of improvements
to gravel pump operations at Kanbauk close to the Heinze
Basin in order to increase tin concentrate production by
about 100 long tons per year by fiscal year 1981;
B.   Provision of a new tin and tungsten concentrating and
upgrading plant at Tavoy, 80 kilometers south of Heinze
Basin, in order to separate mixed concentrates and improve
the grade and quality of tin and tungsten concentrates
produced by MC2;
C.   Provision of equipment for new gravel pump mining operations
near Tavoy in order to produce about 150 long tons per year
of tin concentrates by fiscal year 1981;
D.   Provision of training of key technicians and technical
assistance for engineering, project management, procurement,
commencement of operation and initial operation of the
facilities included in Parts A, B and C above and for
improving MC2's operating and financial controls, including
development of a manpower plan; and
E.   A study of the future development of the mining sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Small items of highly specialized equipment agreed with
the Association and estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $75,000 each may be procured without resort to international
competition after bids have been requested from suppliers in at
least three countries provided the total cost of such items
procured pursuant to this subparagraph does not exceed a maximum
amount of the equivalent of $1,000,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufactures
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids of
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to MC2 of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Socialist Republic of the Union of
Burma may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a
bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 19 -
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1)    Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in the Socialist Republic of
the Union of Burma equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods;
(2)    Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma;
and
(3)    Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group.    Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d)  If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more:


﻿- 20 -
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it in-
tends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, MC2 shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


