Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7468-EGT 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(West Delta Water Conservation and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  September 1, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7468-EGT 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 1, 2008, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred forty five million 
United States dollars (US$145,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time for each Interest Period shall be at 
a
rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, 
that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such 
amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions.  For purposes of paragraph 43 of the General 
Conditions, the “Fixed Spread” for the initial Loan currency in effect at 12:01 
a.m. Washington, D.C time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement is 0.05%. 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08.  The Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
2.09. 
The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of Finance for the 
purpose of handling on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments with 
respect of the Loan. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Water 
Page  4
3
Resources and Irrigation in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
MWRI shall have established the PMU, with organization, staffing and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank
.
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Minister of International Cooperation of the Borrower and the First Under 
Secretary for International, Regional and Arab Financing Organizations of the 
Ministry of International Cooperation of the Borrower are severally designated as 
representatives of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
8
Adly Street, 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
Ministry of International Cooperation 
 
(202) 2391-2815 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt 
 
 
(202) 2391-5167 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Page  5
4
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
 
By: /s/ Fayza Aboulnaga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the livelihood and increase the 
income of people in the Project Area through: (i) mitigating further environmental 
degradation caused by excessive drawdown of the groundwater resources; and (ii) 
establishing a framework for financial sustainability of irrigation infrastructure in the use 
of water resources. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1
:
Design, Construction and Operation of Surface Water System and Connection 
Program
Design, construction and operation of a surface water irrigation system and 
connection program within the Project Area, taking into consideration the specific 
environment and social requirements as stated in the ESMP and the RPF. 
 
Part 2
:
Market-driven Technical Support to Small and Medium Scale Farmers
Providing market-driven technical support to small and medium scale farmers in 
the Project Area to increase their market share, at the national and international level. 
 
Part 3
:
Institutional Development and Capacity Building
(a) 
Institutional development and capacity building of the Regulatory Office 
to ensure effective economic regulatory oversight and equitable 
treatment of interests between farmers and the Private Operator. 
 
(b) 
Supporting the operational capacity of the PMU to assist it in the 
implementation of the Project, the carrying out of the ESMP and the RPF 
and the monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Capacity building of the Project Area’s water user council to enhance its 
capacity to oversee the relationship between farmers regarding usage of 
surface and ground water resources, and to represent the farmer’s interest 
with the Private Operator, the PMU and the Regulatory Office. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the 
Project in MWRI and shall cause MWRI to implement the Project in accordance 
with the ESMP and the RPF.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the ESMP or RPF if, in the 
opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2. 
The Borrower, shall through MWRI, establish by no later than December 31, 
2008, and thereafter maintain, the Regulatory Office within MWRI with 
organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of the 
Project, the Borrower shall, through MWRI, maintain the PMU until the 
completion of the Project with organization, staffing and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank.  The PMU shall be responsible for supervising the 
procurement and financial management processes under the Project, the 
environment and social aspects and the monitoring and evaluation processes for 
the Project. 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause MWRI to carry out the Project pursuant to the 
provisions of the Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption 
in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants, dated October 
15, 2006. 
B. Safeguards 
 
The Borrower shall, through MWRI, ensure that: (i) remedial measures 
are taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or 
reduce adverse environmental impacts, to levels acceptable to the Bank and in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in the ESMP; and (ii) all land acquisition 
required for the purposes of carrying out works under Part 1 of the Project, and 
activities related to the resettlement and rehabilitation of Project affected people 
in connection with such works, shall be completed prior to commencing the 
carrying out of such works, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in the 
RPF. 
Page  8
7
Section II
.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MWRI, monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2012. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MWRI, maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MWRI, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MWRI, have the Financial Statements related to the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the end of such period. 
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Works. 
 All works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
Page  9
8
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works 
 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
C.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Works 
 
145,000,000
70% 
(2) Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
145,000,000
Page  10
9
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee; or 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; 
 
by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable 
amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each April 1 and October 1 
Beginning October 1, 2015 
through October 1, 2026 
 
4.17% 
On April 1, 2027 
 
4.09% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
Page  12
11
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Co-financiers” means the 
Agence
Française
de
Développement
and the 
Netherlands Ministry for Development Cooperation, respectively, referred to in 
paragraph 15 of the Appendix to the General Conditions. 
 
3. 
“Co-financing” means: (a) a loan in an amount of thirty million United States 
dollars and a grant in an amount of two million United States dollars to be 
provided by the 
Agence
Française
de
Développement
;
and (b) a grant in an 
amount of six million United States dollars to be provided by the Netherlands 
Ministry for Development Cooperation, to assist in financing the Project. 
 
4. 
“Co-financing Agreements” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Co-financiers providing for the Co-financing. 
 
5. 
“DBO Contract” means the design, build and operate contract entered into 
between MWRI, on the one part, and a private sector operator, on the other part, 
in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to 
which said operator shall carry out the activities under Part 1 of the Project. 
6. 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental and social management plan for the Project, furnished to the Bank 
on April 30, 2007, as such ESMP may be updated from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, setting forth the remedial 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to 
offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts, including air and water pollution 
and waste to levels acceptable to the Bank. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
 
8. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Borrower’s ministry of finance or any successor 
thereto. 
 
9. 
“Ministry of Water Resources and Irrigation” or “MWRI” means the Borrower’s 
ministry of water resources and irrigation or any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“Private Operator” means the operator referred to under paragraph (5) of this 
Section. 
Page  14
13
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 19, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
13. 
“Project Area” means an area of about 190,000 feddans (79,800 ha.) located on 
both sides of the Cairo-Alexandria desert highway road between Cairo and Sadat 
City, approximately 60 kilometers north of Cairo to the west of the Nile Delta. 
 
14. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, referred to in Section I.A.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Regulatory Office” means the office referred to in Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“
Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
framework for the Project furnished to the Bank on March 30, 2007, setting forth 
the rules, procedures and guidelines for the acquisition of land and/or other assets 
from Project affected persons and/or the resettlement and rehabilitation of such 
persons and the compensation thereof.
 
